start question
Can time logged in foreign aircraft be applied towards an FAA certificate or rating ?
Yes , it counts : the FAA does n't care where flying hours are accumulated provided that the US written and/or practical test requirements are met . I learned to fly in South Africa then applied for an unrestricted FAA license ( i.e. not a foreign based license ) . The FSDO told me that I could count all my time in SA ( cross-countries , night flights etc. ) towards the FAA license requirements , but I would still have to pass the FAA written and practical tests like any other student pilot . One practical issue in this situation is that hours may be logged slightly differently in different countries , by regulation or simply by local practice . The two examples I encountered were that PIC time is ( was ? ) defined differently in SA and the US , and the number of landings is not relevant in SA for currency so no one logs them .
You can cross behind the aircraft on departure roll . This type of operation is done heavily at ATL , on the middle complex during an east flow . Aircraft will depart runway 9L at M2 , and arrivals from either of the south runway will cross behind them the whole time at M1 , to get up to the gates .
Sure . Almost all the modern supersonic combat aircraft incorporate a significant amount of composites in their construction . For example , <URL> : Composite materials are extensively used in the RAFALE and they account for 70 % of the wetted area . though they account for only 28 % of the structural weight . This is in line with other aircraft - for example , composites contribute to around 25 % of the weight of F-22 Raptor . <URL> Dassault Rafale structural materials ; image from <URL> You can see that the composites are extensively used in the wings , where the skins are made usually with composites , which enables them to be made in a single piece . The composite materials are superior to the metals used in aircraft in a number of performance parameters . The offer better strength to weight ratio and corrosion resistance , among others . <URL> , The RAFALE composite wing weighs the same as the MIRAGE 2000 metallic wing , but is 10 % larger and can sustain a load that is 20 % greater . Composite materials are being used increasingly more and more in case of high performance aircraft - not only in wings ( and radomes , where they have been used traditionally ) but also in interior load carrying members , which have been usually made from metals . Even in case of Rafale , the wing box is made from carbon fiber composite . Another reason for using composites , atleast in combat aircraft is for stealth . There are other areas in structural design , where the metals are better , for example , in <URL> and in high temperature areas , where titanium is extensively used . Still in other places like landing gear , steel is used . The image below shows the use of various materials in F-22 Raptor . <URL> Materials used in F-22 Raptor ; image from <URL> Again , the distribution is similar - composites make up majority of the wetted area while a minority of structural weight . In the end , the use of composites or metals are determined by their location and intended use .
Every time an engine is shut down in flight , it is tracked . Engine reliability does affect ETOPS certification . In addition to the aircraft being certified , each airline is also ETOPS certified . An aircraft or an airline with a poor record could have its ETOPS certification downgraded , or even potentially revoked . <URL> ETOPS approval is a two-step process . First , the airframe and engine combination must satisfy the basic ETOPS requirements during its type certification . This is called " ETOPS type approval " . Such tests may include shutting down an engine and flying the remaining engine during the complete diversion time . Often such tests are performed in the middle of the ocean . It must be demonstrated that , during the diversion flight , the flight crew is not unduly burdened by extra workload due to the lost engine and that the probability of the remaining engine failing is extremely remote . For example , if an aircraft is rated for ETOPS-180 , it means that it should be able to fly with full load and just one engine for 3 hours . Second , an operator who conducts ETOPS flights must satisfy their own country 's aviation regulators about their ability to conduct ETOPS flights . This is called " ETOPS operational certification " and involves compliance with additional special engineering and flight crew procedures in addition to the normal engineering and flight procedures . Pilots and engineering staff must be qualified and trained for ETOPS . An airline with extensive experience operating long distance flights may be awarded ETOPS operational approval immediately , others may need to demonstrate ability through a series of ETOPS proving flights . Regulators closely watch the ETOPS performance of both type certificate holders and their affiliated airlines . Any technical incidents during an ETOPS flight must be recorded . From the data collected , the reliability of the particular airframe-engine combination is measured and statistics published . The figures must be within limits of type certifications . Of course , the figures required for ETOPS-180 will always be more stringent than ETOPS-120 . Unsatisfactory figures would lead to a downgrade , or worse , suspension of ETOPS capabilities either for the type certificate holder or the airline .
My understanding is that most FAA licenses would also qualify as " ICAO Licenses " ( certainly the ATP seems to as we have a bunch of US/FAA certificated ATPs acting as international captains for US airlines flying to/from ICAO member states ) . From a quick read I think anything from Private up meets the ICAO Annex 1 ( personnel licensing ) requirements . ( It appears that ICAO charges for Annex 1 , but <URL> for us to all read and enjoy ) . In addition to the Annex 1 requirements , <URL> has the following to say about licensing : ICAO licence or international licence ICAO does not issue any licences . Licences issued by ICAO Contracting States on the basis of Standards and Recommended Practices of Annex 1 -- Personnel Licensing , are habitually called ICAO licences . This has led many to believe that there is a specific ICAO or international licence . The fact is that there is not one single international licence issued by ICAO or any other organization . States issue their own licences based on national regulations in conformity with Annex 1 specifications and validate licences issued by other Contracting States on the basis of bilateral or multilateral agreements or the fulfilment of nationally legislated requirements . and International recognition of flight crew licences The Convention on International Civil Aviation , often called the Chicago Convention , provides for worldwide recognition of flight crew licences issued by any member State of the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) provided that : the licence meets or exceeds the ICAO licensing Standards of Annex 1 -- Personnel Licensing to the Convention on International Civil Aviation ; and the licence is used on an aircraft which is registered in the State which has issued or validated the licence . If the licence is to be used on an aircraft which is not registered in the issuing State , the licence holder must obtain a validation of the licence from the State of Registry or alternatively obtain a new licence issued by the State of Registry . So basically your US/FAA license is a valid " ICAO License " as long as you 're flying a US-registered aircraft &amp; the nation you 're flying to/through accepts US/FAA licenses ( possibly with some additional requirements on a per-country basis ) . If you got a job for a Serbian airline and needed to fly an aircraft registered in Serbia you would need the Serbian Civil Aviation Directorate to issue you a license ( or validate your FAA license ) because they are the state of registry . From what I 've read you can get a private license issued pretty easily in most ICAO member states - the procedures are roughly analogous to <URL> - but if you want anything more than that there are other hoops to jump through to " convert " your license , which can range from just a written exam to a full-fledged checkride or more -- this is probably what people are referring to when they say it 's difficult to get an " ICAO License " issued .
You can log PIC time because you are " the sole manipulator of the controls of an aircraft for which the pilot is rated " ( <URL> ) . That 's all that is required in this case for the pilot to log PIC time . So since a pilot must be night current in order to fly with passengers , ( <URL> ) the question becomes , " is a flight instructor considered a passenger if they are providing instruction " ? AOPA has a <URL> about this specific scenario where they quote FAA legal interpretations as saying : " We agree that , for purposes of section 61.57 ( b ) , an authorized instructor providing instruction in an aircraft is not considered a passenger with respect to the person receiving instruction , even where the person receiving the instruction is acting as [ pilot in command ] . ( The instructor must be current , qualified to instruct , and hold a category , class , and type rating in the aircraft , if a class and type rating is required . ) The instructor is not a passenger because he is present specifically to train the person receiving instruction . Neither is the person receiving instruction a passenger with respect to the instructor . This training may take place , even though neither pilot has met the 61.57 ( b ) requirements . " Note that they say in this case , since neither of them is a passenger , that technically neither the pilot or the flight instructor has to be night current .
It will vary widely from aircraft to aircraft , but I will try to give some general estimates . Time on the Ground Part of what you are referring to what is sometimes called <URL> . It 's not really directly related to my calculations for your overall question ( though it is certainly a factor for short-haul jets ) , but in <URL> , minimum turn times for the Boeing 757 was studied , and it was found that the estimated turn time for a 757-200 was 52.5 minutes , based on actual operations . The 757-300 , a stretched model with more seating , would take about 59 minutes . From <URL> , presented by United Airlines , they show a general guideline MSGT ( Minimum Scheduled Ground Time ) , that is a generalization depending on flight locations , field facilities , and airlines . Some times are : Boeing 747 : 80 minutes Boeing 777 : 70 minutes Boeing 767 : 60 minutes ( -300 model ) Boeing 737 : 35 minutes ( -300 model ) Airbus A320 : 40 minutes <URL> has a discussion of a number of airliner turn times , however none are from official sources . Most vary between 20-45 minutes , depending on if cleaning is required . So for a typical airliner we can say it takes about 45 minutes-1 hour for a typical servicing . Aircraft Lifetime Now as to how many times they fly , you can find their aircraft design cycle limit ( essentially , how many takeoffs and landings it can make in its lifetime ) in <URL> ( summarized <URL> ) . Some listed numbers : Boeing 747 : 20,000 cycles Boeing 777 : 40,000 cycles Boeing 767 : 50,000 cycles Airbus A320 : 48,000 cycles ( 60,000 hours ) Airbus A300 : 40,000 cycles So for a ' typical ' airliner we can say it can survive about 40,000 cycles in a lifetime You can find the average age of airliners in different places online . <URL> splits up by airline and aircraft , and most airliners have an average age of 12-15 years . But note that this is the active fleet . The average age at retirement for an airliner is now <URL> . You can find a related Aviation.SE question <URL> Aircraft Usage <URL> discusses the average cycles and flight hours per day . Long haul aircraft ( like the 747 , 777 , A380 ) tend to spend more hours in the air per flight , but also have less cycles per day . I ca n't find official sources , but the thread presents a couple example averages for peak usage rate : Delta Boeing 757 : 9.5 hours/4 .8 cycles United Boeing 747 : 13.2 hours/1 .6 cycles ( I find these probably accurate , as there have been some publicized accidents that have much higher usage , like <URL> , which flew 48,740 hours and 39,781 cycles in 15 years - about 7 flights/day ; short-haul jets like the one in the article end up with more cycles than long-haul , as I noted above ) . It is difficult to find hard numbers , but overall , the average flight length for a short-haul jet is about 2 hours , whereas a long-haul jetliner is around 6-7 hours . Again , there are a lot of variables in this question , but using the above data , we can estimate the answer to your question , using these estimated figures from above : 40,000 cycles ( ~ 20,000 flights ) 25 years 2 hours/flight This means approximately 40,000 flight hours for a typical short-haul jet ; over 25 years ( 219,000 hours ) , this works out to about 1 hour in flight for every 5 on the ground . Obviously this varies widely , but for a ballpark number , that 's the best I can do . The highest usage would be a heavily used long-haul jet used on the longest routes from a busy airline ( i.e. trans-Pacific ; Middle East to U.S. ) , whereas the lowest would be a moderate-length flight on a low-volume route . In general , you are probably looking at about 1:3 to 1:5 air : ground time .
You kind of have two questions in one - When can I call Clearance Delivery to get my clearance ? and How long is that clearance good for ? <URL> - the local controllers will usually have your clearance 30 minutes before your scheduled departure . Sometimes you can get this information a little earlier yourself - the new Flight Service tools like <URL> can give you expected clearance and flight plan routing information based on what you filed , if the ATC computer already knows what it 's going to do with your flight . <URL> , and you can do the same thing yourself with the Lockheed-Martin tools with a few more manual steps . You still need to talk to the controllers but if you know what they 're going to say it makes that conversation faster ! The second part can go one of two ways : The point of the " void time " is that the ATC system is reserving a spot in the system for you up until that specific time . After that ATC is going to let other aircraft use the airspace they were holding for you ( they may allow someone to make an instrument approach to the airport you 're leaving from , for example ) . This is used a lot for non-towered fields where you have no local controller to talk to . Clearances from Clearance Delivery at a towered field can include a void time , but they generally do n't because they assume you 're in the plane and ready to go at or around the time you call in , and you have local controllers to talk to if you have a problem during the run-up or something which delays your departure . Basically the clearance is good until someone tells you otherwise in that situation . The tool that gets used at towered fields more often is : You 've been issued a clearance , but you ca n't execute it until the tower has coordinated you a spot in the airspace . This is generally more efficient than reserving airspace with a clearance and void time when there are controllers to talk to , and if everything is working well your release should be ready right around the time you 're ready to take the runway for departure .
The methods that Dan referred to in his answer are valid , and might be used by investigators -- the NTSB for example . However , generally speaking the NTSB will not spend a great deal of effort researching pilot time . Instead they will resort to one of two methods of determining pilot experience . Firstly , if a logbook is readily available -- either found at the scene or made available through the investigation -- it will be used to determine pilot experience . Secondly , if a logbook is not readily available , the NTSB can determine pilot experience based on the pilot 's reported flight time on his or her last application for a medical certificate . Since an application for a current FAA third class medical can be several years old , private pilot experience determined by this means may not accurately reflect an accident pilot 's actual level of experience . However , a professional pilot 's application for an FAA first or second class medical will only be six to twelve months old , and will much more accurately reflect that pilot 's actual level of experience . Similarly , FAA certificated pilots report their flight time on some IACRA applications for pilot certificates . This reported time will have been independently verified as accurate ( unlike times reported on medical certificates ) . However , in most cases , a pilot will have applied for a medical more recently than for a certificate . For actual examples of these two scenarios , see <URL> , in which both are detailed . For the first pilot involved : The [ first ] pilot 's flight history was reconstructed using logbook documentation . His most recent pilot logbook entry was dated July 31 , 2016 , at which time he had accumulated 135.5 hours total flight time , of which 48.6 hours were listed as pilot-in-command . All of his flight time had been completed in a Cessna model 172N single-engine airplane . He had accumulated 5.0 hours in actual instrument meteorological conditions , 12.9 hours in simulated instrument meteorological conditions , and 3.4 hours at night . He had flown 24.7 hours during the prior 12 months , 4.4 hours in the previous 6 months , 2.4 hours during prior 90 days , and 1 hour in the 30 day period before the accident flight . The pilot 's logbook did not contain any recorded flight time for the 24 hour period before the accident flight . For the second pilot involved : According to FAA records , the [ second pilot ] , age 60 , held a private pilot certificate with a single engine land airplane rating . His last aviation medical examination was completed on November 6 , 2014 , when he was issued a third-class medical certificate with a limitation for corrective lenses . A search of FAA records showed no previous accidents , incidents , or enforcement proceedings . A pilot logbook was not recovered during the on-scene investigation ; however , on the application for his current medical certificate , he reported having accumulated 120 hours of flight experience .
You 're really asking a postal service question ( and from my experience with the postal service you 're probably out of luck , even if you had the tracking number : Unfortunately when the USPS hands packages off to other nations ' postal services that 's often the last tracking update - either the item gets to its recipient or not , but it 's gone into a black hole ) . In any case the answer to the aviation/FAA half of the question ( " I have n't gotten my new medical certificate yet - what do I do now ? " ) is much simpler , and involves more helpful people than international mail : " Contact the Medical Certification branch " ( <URL> ) . In this particular case you want to actually call them on the phone and speak to a human being to determine ( a ) if they have a tracking number , and ( b ) how to proceed to ensure that you have a valid medical certificate in your possession . I know in cases like this the Medical Certification branch can also fax you a copy of the certificate ( I believe these are valid for 60 days ) while you try to get things straightened out and get the actual paper certificate in your hands .
Any flights operated by a certificate holder must be operated in accordance with the authorization of their certificate . Authorization will vary . An Air Carrier may conduct training1 flights under § 91 if authorized to do so . If not authorized , any flights operated by that Air Carrier -- including training flights -- must be conducted under the part of 14 CFR ( § 121 , § 135 , etc ) specified by their Air Operating Certificate ( AOC ) . An Air Carrier may be authorized to conduct training flights under 14 CFR 91 in accordance with their Operation Specifications authorized by the FAA . The exception to this would be if that Air Carrier 's Operation Specifications do not authorize the Air Carrier to conduct flights under § 91 . I know of no reason for such exception , nor if any such exception has been withheld from any actual Air Carrier . The authorization is found within the Operation Specifications of the company in question , not necessarily in 14 CFR , though it can be inferred there . See Operation Specification A001 for authorization to conduct training flights under 14 CFR 91 , for example : d . The certificate holder is authorized to conduct flights under 14 CFR Part 91 for crewmember training , maintenance tests , ferrying , re-positioning , and the carriage of company officials using the applicable authorizations in these operations specifications , without obtaining a Letter of Authorization , provided the flights are not conducted for compensation or hire and no charge of any kind is made for the conduct of the flights . ( The above is an example only ; actual authorization may vary . ) An Air Carrier may also be authorized by A031 of their Ops Spec to make arrangements with an outside party for Contract Training , including instruction and evaluation . An authorized outside party under this specification may include a § 142 Training Center and/or a different § 119 Certificate holder authorized to conduct training and/or checking . Any training flights operated by either such certificate holder must likewise be authorized by the terms of their certificate . 1Note : Regarding the question of what is included under the definition of the term training -- particularly whether checkrides are included in that definition -- no explicit guidance is offered . However , a definition might well be inferred from -- among other things -- the definitions for the following two terms as found in Ops Spec A002 , Definitions and Abbreviations : Major Contract Training Any flight training , flight testing , or flight checking leading to and maintaining certification and qualification of air carrier flight crew members in accordance with the requirements ( maneuvers and procedures ) explicitly stated in 14 CFR Parts 61 , 121 , or 135 ; or in SFAR 58 Advanced Qualification Program ( AQP ) , as applicable . Outsourced Training Any training , testing , or checking activity which an air carrier certificate holder provides by way of a contract arrangement with another party .
I would say yes you can as per the FAR as I read them the limitations on a PPL are § 61.113 ( a ) Except as provided in paragraphs ( b ) through ( h ) of this section , no person who holds a private pilot certificate may act as pilot in command of an aircraft that is carrying passengers or property for compensation or hire ; nor may that person , for compensation or hire , act as pilot in command of an aircraft So you cant act as Pilot In Command for hire or if there are passengers on board ( which in this case I assume there are not ) however if we look at the FAR for the official definition of " Pilot In Command " we will find Pilot in command means the person who : ( 1 ) Has final authority and responsibility for the operation and safety of the flight ; ( 2 ) Has been designated as pilot in command before or during the flight ; and ( 3 ) Holds the appropriate category , class , and type rating , if appropriate , for the conduct of the flight . The question is does taxing count as a " Flight " . I would think it does not and moving the aircraft around is part of maintenance ( thats how they log the hours on the trainer planes I rent ) . The FAR definitions section ( § 1.1 ) does not seem to contain one for " flight " so that may be open to interpretation . But as I read it you can taxi the aircraft for compensation as its not a " Flight " and thus you are not the Pilot In Command which is when the PPL rules would come into play in my opinion . However section § 65.81 states However , he may not supervise the maintenance , preventive maintenance , or alteration of , or approve and return to service , any aircraft or appliance , or part thereof , for which he is rated unless he has satisfactorily performed the work concerned at an earlier date . The key line ( Bolded ) is return to service . If Taxing counts as returned to service then ( unless rated to do so ) you may not be able to for this reason ( nothing to do with compensation ) . Note : I am not a lawyer nor an aircraft mechanic and can not guarantee that my assumptions are correct . The opinions stated above should not be used as official legal advice and there may be more information in the FAR that I have not come across . This was compiled after some quick reading and searching in the assumed correct places . Note 2 : I would assume that in a commercial setting ( and really any setting ) there are some insurance implications to this kind of operation ( especially with large aircraft ) . This may almost be a bigger concern than the legality of it ( although both are important ) . You would not want to get into the situation where you may be legally allowed to drive the plane on the tarmac but are not covered by the company 's insurance . Should you get into an accident you or your shop may become liable for the damages .
Ill answer this for the FAA ( here in the US ) but keep in mind this differs around the globe . The FAA outlines some of their <URL> . They created a special website that has a lot of <URL> if you are interested . There are 2 basic scenarios here in the US , towered and un-towered operations . There can be a noise abatement or related procedure in place in both cases and it is both the pilots and towers ( when applicable ) responsibility for knowing them and abiding by them . Some of them may be set in place by local governments ( if its say a municipal airport ) and you may face local legal action for violating them . At a towered airport that has a noise abatement the tower will generally not vector you to that area or have you use a given runway provide conditions allow . For example when I fly out of KPNE there is an abatement in place , in this case they only list Rwy 15 arrival ( stay above the glide slope ) however there is another abatement in place on the weekends to keep you from flying over the heavily residential areas early in the morning . The tower vectors you appropriately for that one . <URL> ( <URL> ) At un-towered airports there may be a published noise abatement that you are requested to follow . For example I fly out of KDYL which has a noise abatement in place ( to keep you from flying over downtown ) . In this case we can see it noted in the AFD . Although its not fully explained the procedures are for RW 23 turn to 250 as soon as practically possible , for RW05 no turns under 1200 ft. and there are no touch and go 's at any time . <URL> ( <URL> ) In both cases the procedures have a similar outcome to what you have described , keep the airplanes away form the populated areas . The procedures vary heavily per airport and scenario but all generally strive for the same outcome . The <URL> but also provides contact info for directly reporting to the FAA . You can single out a given aircraft by accurately reporting the time of the incident ( and if its visible ) describing the aircraft . Granted it can be difficult at an un-towered field to know who exactly was departing if no one was around to see it or on the radio to hear it . Once reported the local authorities may have the right to fine you for the violation ( if that is the punishment on the books ) . For example in the <URL> . <URL> If a plane violates the Noise Ordinance , how much are they fined ? The initial phases of our violation process are educational : the first time an owner/operator violates , they will receive a complete packet including a copy of our Noise Ordinance , an outline of what the infraction was , a letter from GANC offering assistance with procedures , and a warning letter asking them to contact noise abatement staff . The second violation involves a notification letter of infraction and a request for a written noise abatement program , where we ask the owner/operator to communicate how they plan to operate without violating our ordinance in the future . The third violation is a fine of $ 100 dollars . The fourth and every subsequent fine of 300 dollars . Please note that Military aircraft are exempt from this policy . And it looks like , <URL> , the airport manager issues the fine and the payments go to the airport . This may vary by jurisdiction on how they chose to govern things like this . Over all the answer to your question is , yes airports can fine pilots ( well really owner/operators ) for noise violations . There are also <URL> that deal with engine noise but are generally handled during the certification phase of the air frame . This helps to reduce airport noise overall . As for global regulations the <URL> with the <URL> . ICAO has a set of policies you can <URL> .
Can you explain how it works and how to use it and what is the advantage compared with regular steep turns ? He needs to turn and start to descent . Note , that the two moments he 's overbanking he 's flying over ridges and wants to descent to the valley behind . Now when you want to lower the nose in a turn you need to bank more so you still have the desired lateral lift , but less vertical . But he 's so fast that he needs negative vertical lift component , and since the wings are producing positive lift to make the turn , he needs to bank more than 90 ° to get it . I have CPL but I was never thought such maneuvering . Can it be used in SEP aircraft or glider with just a couple of G ? It is a positive G manoeuvre and you can do the same with , say , 2G , so technically yes . However : You have no use for it . He 's flying 420 -- 480 knots . At 420 knots , a 1G ( meaning 1G lateral , so 1.41 G total at 45 ° bank ) turn will have rate 2.6 ° / s and radius 4759 m . But in a SEP you might be flying , say , 120 knots and then 1G turn will have rate 9.1 ° / s and radius 388 m. That , of course , applies to vertical turns as well . So where he needs to push -1 G , and thus overbank , you would do with reducing to , say , 0.5 G , and thus still normal side up . You would probably loose spatial awareness rather quickly if you are not trained in aerobatics . The fighter pilots train a lot to be able to handle the plane at these high Gs and unusual attitudes . Without training , it will get confusing pretty quickly . Your attitude indicator will likely tumble . The fighters have attitude indicators carefully designed not to , but your average mechanical one in something like C172 almost surely will . That is not a problem in itself -- aerobatic pilots just cage it and fly purely on external references -- but you need to be aware of it . The fighter has a G-meter , but in a typical SEP plane you do n't . But if you fly below $ V_A $ , the wing will stall before exceeding the structural limit , so you can do without . During aerobatics , such , or similar manoeuvres may be performed . For example in Red Bull Air Race turns are usually executed at 90 ° bank ( to use all the lift for the change of direction ) . The plane climbs a bit to store some speed in height , since turns are tighter at slower speed , then makes the hard turn , during which it has 0G vertical and the vertical speed decays and it changes from climb to descent and then it levels from the descent in the gate height and with all its speed back . At the end of the movie looks like 5G is used for slowing airplane for landing . 5G is pulled and jet instantly slows from 300 to 260 . The induced drag is proportional to coefficient of lift . So when the wings are requested to generate a lot of lift , they also generate a lot of drag . Especially since this might have been enough to pull the delta wings of the Typhoon to the vortex lift regime , where it generates even more drag . I believe part of the reason to fly such sharp turn here is to fly the pattern at modest size despite the high speed and the deceleration is just a nice side-effect . The speed brake would be enough to slow down , and still needs to be used as 260 knots is still about twice the landing speed .
Yes and Yes ; As long as you are rated for the category , class , and type ( if required ) of the aircraft that you are receiving the training in you could log both PIC and dual received . 14 CFR 61.51 ( e ) ( i ) covers the logging of PIC time ( which is perfectly legal in the scenario that you describe if you are rated in the aircraft ) : <URL> ... ( e ) Logging pilot-in-command flight time . ( 1 ) A sport , recreational , private , commercial , or airline transport pilot may log pilot in command flight time for flights - ( i ) When the pilot is the sole manipulator of the controls of an aircraft for which the pilot is rated , or has sport pilot privileges for that category and class of aircraft , if the aircraft class rating is appropriate ; Training time is logged per 14 CFR 61.51 ( h ) and you can log that too : ( h ) Logging training time . ( 1 ) A person may log training time when that person receives training from an authorized instructor in an aircraft , flight simulator , or flight training device . That being said , you may not act as the actual PIC however : <URL> ... ( i ) Additional training required for operating tailwheel airplanes . ( 1 ) Except as provided in paragraph ( i ) ( 2 ) of this section , no person may act as pilot in command of a tailwheel airplane unless that person has received and logged flight training from an authorized instructor in a tailwheel airplane and received an endorsement in the person 's logbook from an authorized instructor who found the person proficient in the operation of a tailwheel airplane . The flight training must include at least the following maneuvers and procedures : ... Notice that the regulations governing acting as PIC are different than those governing logging of PIC time . This was done intentionally because there were so many pilots that were hired as SIC 's at airlines with little to no PIC time and flew for years . When it was time for them to upgrade they did n't have enough PIC time even though they had lots of experience and could easily upgrade safely .
The requirement which states that at least 51 % of the tasks needed to make the aircraft airworthy must be accomplished by amateurs is <URL> . Presumably this would exclude finishing items like paint , some instruments , avionics , interiors , etc. , as those are items which in most cases are not required for airworthiness . The FAA has <URL> which inspectors use to evaluate the " major portion " requirement . Homebuilders thoroughly document the construction process ( or at least , they should ! ) in a builder 's log ; a lot of these tend to turn into massive photoblogs . <URL> . The " two weeks to taxi " builder-assist programs that exist out there generally get the basics working , but they certainly are n't " two weeks to flight " . Most manufacturers carefully calculate the amount of work they can offer as a kit , based on the number of tasks remaining for the builder to finish . I 'm not a builder , so I ca n't say for sure , but I understand most of the advantage to these programs is not that somebody is helping you - it 's that they can supply tools , jigs , and a lot of behind-the-scenes support like organizing your workflow and providing answers to questions with no turnaround time . They 're not there building the plane with you ; they 're there to make it possible for you to build the plane more quickly ... if that distinction makes sense . <URL> , which I admit to paraphrasing here and there !
I think this depends on what " FAA-qualified " means : the FAA defines aerobatic flight in <URL> but it does n't issue any pilot certificates or ratings for aerobatics . I did find several references to FAA Form 8710‑7 , Statement of Acrobatic Competency ( e.g. <URL> ) , but the form itself is n't even listed on the <URL> . There is an FAA <URL> called Guidelines for Pilots Seeking All-Attitude Training which states that there is no special certification required : [ ... ] no separate certificate , rating or endorsement is required to specifically qualify an individual as an all-attitude instructor And : Anyone claiming to be an all-attitude instructor must at least hold a valid Commercial certificate if working for compensation or hire . The instructor must also be a certificated flight instructor ( CFI ) to provide FAA endorsements . Other than that , CFI credentials are not necessary for anyone to claim to be an all-attitude instructor . Therefore , caveat emptor - buyer beware - applies when seeking instruction . Although their definition of " all-attitude " is n't exactly the same as " aerobatic " , the document seems to make it clear that aerobatic training is not directly regulated . And looking through a variety of aerobatic websites including the <URL> , there is no mention of any required FAA certification . Endorsements for tailwheel , high-performance or complex aircraft are often required , but that 's because of the aircraft itself , not the aerobatic activity . But this <URL> gives some clearer information : Once the helicopter was ready , the FAA needed to certify it in order for Chuck to perform stunts with it . Once the aircraft was certified , the next step was to also get him certified , which ended up being a complicated process . The FAA was not sure how they could certify him , so they turned to Rich Lee , chief pilot for Boeing , who evaluated him . " He wanted to make sure that I did have all my screws in my head and that they were not loose " , said Chuck , laughing . My guess is that the FAA first issued a new airworthiness certificate and/or waiver for the modified helicopter . That 's very common and it would be same for a home-built aircraft , for example . Second - and this is a guess - they had the Boeing guy evaluate him for the Statement of Acrobatic Competency that I mentioned above . Although I ca n't find it on the FAA site , it obviously existed in the past and if you look at <URL> from the EAA Warbirds site , you can see that the evaluation process was ( is ? ) ' outsourced ' by the FAA anyway , presumably because they have no experts available internally : I desire to take advantage of an FAA procedure for the evaluation of my competency by a Warbird Aerobatic Evaluator ( Warbird Evaluator ) on the list maintained by the EAA Warbirds of America , Incorporated . I suspect that putting a unique airworthiness certificate together with a unique Statement of Acrobatic Competency resulted in a uniquely " FAA-qualified " acrobatic helicopter pilot . Finally , according to Aaron 's <URL> he is the : First FAA Certified Helicopter Pilot to recieve a Helicopter Aerobatic Certificate from the FAA . That again seems to emphasize the helicopter , not the pilot .
Unfortunately , no . <URL> ( e ) requires : The MDA or DA/DH and visibility landing minimums prescribed in part 97 of this chapter or in the operator 's operations specifications are increased by 100 feet and 1⁄2 mile respectively , but not to exceed the ceiling and visibility minimums for that airport when used as an alternate airport , for each pilot in command of a turbine-powered airplane who has not served at least 100 hours as pilot in command in that type of airplane . So this means that our question becomes : Can a pilot log PIC time when " flying " a simulator ? The answer to this question comes from <URL> , where you will notice that none of the bold parts ( marked by me ) have been met in the situation that you describe . Generally , PIC time requires you to be PIC of an aircraft , and does not provide for PIC time when in a simulator unless you are providing instruction : ( e ) Logging pilot-in-command flight time . ( 1 ) A sport , recreational , private , commercial , or airline transport pilot may log pilot in command flight time for flights - ( i ) When the pilot is the sole manipulator of the controls of an aircraft for which the pilot is rated , or has sport pilot privileges for that category and class of aircraft , if the aircraft class rating is appropriate ; ( ii ) When the pilot is the sole occupant in the aircraft ; ( iii ) When the pilot , except for a holder of a sport or recreational pilot certificate , acts as pilot in command of an aircraft for which more than one pilot is required under the type certification of the aircraft or the regulations under which the flight is conducted ; or ( iv ) When the pilot performs the duties of pilot in command while under the supervision of a qualified pilot in command provided -- ... ( 2 ) If rated to act as pilot in command of the aircraft , an airline transport pilot may log all flight time while acting as pilot in command of an operation requiring an airline transport pilot certificate . ( 3 ) A certificated flight instructor may log pilot in command flight time for all flight time while serving as the authorized instructor in an operation if the instructor is rated to act as pilot in command of that aircraft . ( 4 ) A student pilot may log pilot-in-command time only when the student pilot -- ( i ) Is the sole occupant of the aircraft or is performing the duties of pilot of command of an airship requiring more than one pilot flight crewmember ; ( ii ) Has a solo flight endorsement as required under § 61.87 of this part ; and ( iii ) Is undergoing training for a pilot certificate or rating .
The Delta Interview Process I interviewed about three months ago at one of the several regionals that uses the Delta interview process . It goes a little something like this : Company Introduction You arrive in the morning , somebody meets you , shakes your hand , and you usually hear a little speech or presentation about the company . If your prospective employer uses <URL> , they 'll have you verify that all of your information is still current , and gather your paperwork . Then , it 's off to Computer-Based Testing ! Computer Based Testing CBT in the Delta interview is divided into three segments : cognitive , personality , and job knowledge . Cognitive The cognitive test is essentially reflex and memory games , of the sort you 'd see on lumosity.com . Some examples : You are shown a horizontal line , with a pointer in the center . The pointer will move from side to side at random along the line . It is your task to counteract this random movement using the arrow keys to keep the pointer as close as possible to the center of the line . Measures : Focus and concentration You are shown two words , such as and . It is your task to determine as quickly as possible if they are the same or different , and to click the appropriate same or different button on screen . Measures : Attention to detail ? You are shown a table of six numerals paired with six simple shapes . This table remains on screen . You are shown a series of these shapes . Decode , as quickly as possible , the series of shapes into the numerals they represent . Measures : Matching , working memory . You are shown a graphic of a man holding a flag in one hand . The man is either facing towards or away from you . The man is either right-side-up or upside-down . No matter his orientation , determine as quickly as possible whether the man is holding the flag in his right or left hand . Measures : Spatial awareness A line wavers back and forth in a white area between two red zones in a random fashion . When the space bar is pressed , the line will instantly be reset to the center of the white area . It is your task to press the space bar as quickly as possible after the red line leaves the white area , but not before . Measures : Attention , reflexes . You are shown the horizontal line with the pointer as well as the white area with the line . It is your task to keep the pointer centered with the arrow keys while simultaneously using the space bar to reset the line when and only when it moves outside the white area . Measures : Division of attention , reflexes You are shown a series of six simple shapes . It is your task to recall the six numerals that were paired with these shapes from earlier in the test . Measures : Recall A series of simple mental math problems is presented . " Which would you rather have , 1/4th of \ $ 200 , 1/5th of \ $ 300 , or 1/3 of \ $ 250 ? " Measures : Mental math skills You are shown four rectangles . One has a thin border , one contains a filled in arrow pointing left , one has a shaded arrow pointing right , one has a thick border . There are multiple exercises to the test . During some portions of the test , you are asked to click the rectangle whose arrow matches the direction of the one you are shown . In others , you are asked to click the one whose shading matches . In others , the border . These criteria change at random . Your task is to match the proper criteria as quickly and accurately as possible . Measures : Attention to detail , adaptation to changing conditions . Listen through your headphones . A series of notes will be played . Then a second series of notes will be played . Touch SAME or DIFFERENT . Measures : Whether you were good at <URL> as a kid . Personality You are shown approximately 130 statements , one at a time . Your task is to determine how much you agree or disagree with them on the following scale : Strongly Agree Agree Neither agree nor disagree Disagree Strongly disagree The statements are similar to : I think the new morality is no morality at all . Over the years , I have done some pretty stupid things . I have literally jumped for joy . I have a hard time resisting temptation . Job Knowledge This test measures technical knowledge . It contains questions concerning : Turbine engine theory Descent planning DME arc degree-to-nautical-mile calculations Stall recovery procedures Mach-to-TAS conversion Transport category systems knowledge Emergency procedures Aerodynamics and more ! Thank Wright that 's out of the way , next up is lunch ! Then comes the interviews : Tell me about a scary time in the cockpit <URL> ? Which is colder , -40 C or -40 F ? I see that you failed a checkride , tell me about it . And so on . The conclusion You made it ! Someone comes out and shakes your hand . Now it 's time to fill out PRIA paperwork and pee in a cup . If all goes well , you 're given a conditional offer of employment ! Congrats ! You 're a regional FO ! ( If you can make it through training )
There are such a thing as " Quick Change " aircraft , allowing entire ' pallets ' of chairs to be exchanged for cargo . <URL> Image courtesy of canalblog.com <URL> Image courtesy of airliner.net <URL> to show the process . Military transport aircraft can also be fitted out with stretchers or seats , or whatever other combo of stuff you want . To the best of my understanding these lock in like any other cargo pallet in the floor . They are less concerned with aesthetics and more with practicality : <URL> Image courtesy the DOD via Wikimedia <URL> Image courtesy of aarcorp.com
end question
start question
How are VORs oriented near the magnetic poles ?
In <URL> , Northern Domestic Airspace ( NDA ) is the area of compass unreliability within which runways and NAVAIDs are oriented to true or grid north versus magnetic north . You should not need to worry about which NAVAID is to true north ; simply keep track of whether you 're in Southern or Northern Domestic Airspace .
It will either go through the airline 's existing air-to-ground system ( like the seat-back phones you pay $ 5/min for ) or they 've got a store-and-process-later arrangement with the card companies . ( Just because you ca n't use a phone does n't mean the airline ca n't , they just follow certain conditions better )
During development , a lot of different wind tunnels are used . Scales range from full scale to less than 1/100 , and sometimes not only the geometric , but also the dynamic and elastic properties of the aircraft to be tested must be modelled correctly . Today , preliminary work is mostly done in numerical simulations , but before the availability of computers , early wind tunnel models would be between 1/50 to 1/16 scale ( depending on the size of the real article and the available wind tunnel ) , often using modular models on which different engine placements or tail geometries could be tried out . Since wind tunnel testing costs real money , early tests are restricted to small , low-cost tunnels which run at ambient temperature and density . Differences in the Reynolds number between test article and the real aircraft are covered with correction factors and experience . Only when a design is moving ahead during development , bigger and more expensive tunnels are used . Again , matching the Reynolds number is not possible and not even necessary for some tests : For a spin tunnel the test article must be scaled dynamically ( so it has correct moments of inertia ) , but <URL> , so the precision of a 1/20 scale model is sufficient . Also , a free-falling model in a spin tunnel needs quite a bit of space to move around , so even small models already need test sections with a diameter of several meters . To reduce cost and avoid the tight schedules of wind tunnels , free-flying or radio controlled models are also used . Watch how Dornier engineers tested the dynamic behavior of the then-new tricycle gear of the <URL> in <URL> ( starting at 2:00 ' ) or ditching characteristics ( starting at 2:13 ' ) . Only when both Mach and Reynolds number need to be matched , cryogenic and pressurised wind tunnels are used . Due to their energy demand and availability , such tests need to be scheduled years in advance and meticulously planned . Models can run into millions of dollars or Euros , so such tests will mostly narrow down parameters which had been measured previously in simpler tests . Large tunnels like the 9.5 x9 .5 m <URL> in Marknesse ( the Netherlands ) are mostly used for low-speed and high-lift characteristics testing since its 12.6 MW engine can only support a speed of 62 m/s at full power . On the other end of the scale are hypersonic <URL> which support a testing section of 0.5 m diameter in which Mach 6 can be achieved for a fraction of a second . Full-scale testing in a wind tunnel is only possible with small aircraft - see the answers to <URL> for examples . Even then , the speeds do not match the top speed of the aircraft , so the loads are a fraction of the real loads . Jan Roskam observes in his book " <URL> " : It certainly is an unusual luxury for an engineer to have full Reynolds Number tunnel data available .
The other answers are good , but do n't touch on one key method ... Prevention . Small aircraft like a Cessna 172 have a limited cruise time , about 4 hours maximum . They are small enough that they get relatively uncomfortable after 2-3 hours , and if flying in turbulence or challenging conditions , flights can be relatively short . The best way I 've found to avoid the problem is to make sure to use the facilities as close to departure time as possible and to limit my intake of fluids in the hour or so leading up to a flight . The other option you have is to land and use the " facilities " . Many unmanned airports that have terminals ( like <URL> ) have a keypad access and facilities inside . Airports are pretty common and you usually are n't more than 30 minutes away from an airport with a bathroom . Just as a personal account of this , I was doing night training at my local field ( Class C ) and it was late ( 10:00 PM or so ) . One gentleman came on the radio and asked the tower if the FBO was open so he could use the facilities . The controller responded that the FBO was closed but he could taxi him to a quiet corner of the airfield for a few minutes . The pilot gladly took him up on the offer .
They have the usual transport options : shove into cargo area , on a flatbed truck , shipping container , ... They can also be attached below the wing of a large aircraft and flown with if there is no room in the cargo area . ( stolen from <URL> ) Notice the extra engine on the near wing .
Most small planes ( there are exceptions ! ) have three wheels - two fixed wheels , one under each wing , and one under either the nose or the tail . When the third wheel is under the nose ( " tricycle " layout ) , that wheel is usually ( but not always ) steerable with the same pedals as the rudder , enabling accurate steering on the ground . ( Image Source : <URL> - Author : Joseph Burnside ) The rudder itself will also add an element of steering moment depending on the airflow over the fuselage ( taxiing speed is usually too low for this to have much effect , except that on single engine aircraft applying power will push air over the fuselage and tail , adding effectiveness to the rudder ) . In addition , for sharp turning at low speeds , differential braking can be applied - press the brake pedal for the starboard main wheel only , and the plane will tend to pivot about that wheel - ie turn right . When the third wheel is under the tail ( " tail-dragger " layout ) , the tail wheel is not usually steerable ( it usually pivots freely - but again there are exceptions ! ) . In this case the other two techniques mentioned above - rudder and differential braking - are the only methods of steering on the ground . I 've never flown a taildragger myself but I understand the taxiing technique takes some getting used to . ( Image Source : <URL> - Author : RenioLinossi )
Cruise Missile : Uses thrust for the whole trajectory Uses aerodynamic forces by moving control surfaces to move . May use thrust vectoring Ballistic Missile : Uses thrust to reach very high altitude . After that , no thrust , only potential energy is used and converted to speed . Uses aerodynamic forces ( for a limited extent ) to move by deflecting control surfaces .
As always the country is responsible for the final decision , so FAA/FCC will decide in the US ( but see @Gerry 's comment from an insider below ) , and I believe so does the <URL> in Japan . However this local decision happens after an agreement already found in international bodies . For aviation , the international body is <URL> and ICAO <URL> is the main framework used to ensure international aviation operations are possible , safe and fair : The localizer / glide path pairing table is part of <URL> of the Convention , Volume I , paragraph 3.1.6 . 3.1.6.1 The pairing of the runway localizer and glide path transmitter frequencies of an instrument landing system shall be taken from the following list in accordance with the provisions of Volume V , Chapter 4 , 4.2 . <URL> ICAO decisions in radiocommunication matters are subject to the frequency allotment and protection decisions taken under the auspices of the ITU during the <URL> ( WRC ) , held every four years . It 's ITU which is responsible for the global ( civil ) use of the frequency spectrum . The pairing table was built back in 1956 ! ( Fifth Session of the COM Division , as visible on p. XI ) Pairing was carefully designed so that ILS could work without interferences ( <URL> and <URL> ) in certain conditions without being below the radio horizon of each other . A preferred pairing table is provided for such use : 3.1.6.1.1 In those regions where the requirements for runway localizer and glide path transmitter frequencies of an instrument landing system do not justify more than 20 pairs , they shall be selected sequentially , as required , from the following list : <URL> Attachment C of Annex 10 , ( 2.6 Deployment of ILS frequencies ) provides some details about this selection : 2.6.5 In general , when international use of ILS systems is confined to the pairings listed in Chapter 3 , 3.1.6.1.1 , the criteria are such that , provided they are met for the localizer element , the glide path element is automatically covered . At certain congested locations , where it is necessary to make assignments in both the first ten and the second ten sequence pairings , it may be necessary to select certain pairings out of sequence in order to meet the minimum geographical separation in 2.6.6 . Example : Referring to Chapter 3 , 3.1.6.1.1 , it will be noted that ILS Sequence Number 2 pairs the localizer frequency of 109.9 MHz with glide path frequency 333.8 MHz . Sequence Numbers 12 and 19 , however , although providing wide frequency separation from Sequence Number 2 in the case of the localizers , assign frequencies of 334.1 MHz and 333.5 MHz , respectively , for the glide paths , both being first adjacent channels ( 300 kHz spacing ) to the Sequence Number 2 glide path channel . If selection of ILS channels is confined to either the first ten or the second ten pairings , then the minimum glide path frequency separation will be 600 kHz .
The life ( Low Cycle Fatigue life ) on the Civil airliners is generally talked abut in terms of number of cycles i.e. number of flights . And since airliners undertake quite predictable flights in terms of loads and stresses , and typically a very limited variations among these parameters for their entire life ( since any aircraft would be designed for certain type of range and payload and would be used for that particular purpose mainly , for economic reasons ) , its easy to talk in terms of number cycles , since variations from flight to flight are limited . But this issue of keeping track of actual mission profile is very critical for fighter ( actually any military jet but I would restrict myself to only Fighters because its easier to point out the things for this case ) jets which have quite unpredictable usage profile . Any fighter jet is typically designed for a certain mission mix i.e. mixture of a bunch of mission profiles that the fighter is expected to carry with the expected relative frequency ( which comes from the past experience of an Air Force ) . But still in real life , the actual missions flown end up being quite different that this assumed mission mix . Now it is possible to utilize the airframe structural life to best possible extent by keeping track of actual mission profiles flown and debiting life for each mission from the designed number of hours . Obviously one needs to calculate the life debit for actual mission flown in terms of the equivalent hours for assumed designed mission mix . Say a fighter is designed for 8000hrs assuming it will fly 10 times of missions with certain frequency , and it recently flew a mission for which we know the parameter , then what would be the number of hours of equivalent life that was utilized from this 8000hrs . . ? To calculate this we need the loading parameters of each mission such as how many Gs were pulled for how long time intervals , how many rolls performed with what roll rate and so on . Every aircraft has system which collects this information ( measured by various sensors ) for entire mission . Once on the ground , this information is fed to what is called as " Life Tracking System " . It analyses the data , calculates how many hours of debit this mission took on the airframe and then decides what is remaining life . This can be done at component level as well and one can keep track of available life of each component and accordingly schedule maintenance for each component individually . I am not sure how this is exactly done for entire aircraft ( Looking for Patents by Aircraft OEMs would be a good way to start digging in ) , but I know for the Jet engines . The methodology should be the same in principle . Specifics might change . I suggest you read about Volvo Aero RM12 Life Tracking System ( LTS ) which finds its origin in GE 's LTS for F404 . ( <URL> ) and <URL> . Essentially all OEMs have similar systems now . RM12 has improved utility of the engine by ~ 30 % i.e. the engine is used for 30 % more time now as compared to the case where LTS was not used and differences in missions were not accounted for . Because many missions do not take as much toll on the structural life as it was expected during design ( or more number of less stressful missions are flown in actual practice than it was assumed for design ) . Most popular technique used to calculate the equivalent LCF life debit for each mission considering variations in loads and stresses for each mission specifically is known as <URL> . The process essentially looks like this : <URL> You apply the actual measured loads and see what stresses the analysis predicts for each mission . Then apply Rain flow Counting to calculate accumulated structural fatigue damage and residual life remaining . Rain drop counting is the model which helps you covert the irregular fatigue loading ( i.e. varying missions ) to equivalent cyclic loading and thereby coming up with a life debit number which is equivalent to the design mission mix and which you can subtract from the designed life hours . That 's how you can take care of variation in the missions and loadings in each mission .
The " heading " refers to the direction an aircraft is pointing . For a Magnetic Heading , this is in relation to Magnetic North . For a True Heading , this is in relation to True North . True North is directly over the earth 's axis . Magnetic North is somewhere over Canada , moving towards Russia . To get the Magnetic Heading , you just read it off the magnetic compass . To get the True Heading , you need to first read the magnetic compass , then either add an Easterly , or subtract a Westerly , magnetic variation ; based upon the isogonic lines on your sectional ( the purple dashed lines labeled 5 ° W , 3 ° E , etc ) . Example 1 : Magnetic Heading 177 w / 3 degrees East Magnetic deviation = true course 180 . Example 2 : Magnetic Heading 177 w / 3 degrees West Magnetic deviation = true course 174 . Because of this , in the past , magnetic headings were used because a simple compass could be used . Finding reliable true headings was difficult until the era of things like the gyrocompass ( patented in 1906 ( Germany ) and 1908 ( USA ) ) and more recently , GPS .
They are flown to their customers by either Boeing or pilots from the given airline . As for the Boeing factory its self , the <URL> users Paine Field as their runway . If you look closely there is a <URL> and connects the plant to the main ramp of the airport . This appears to be painted for car traffic but is also used for aircraft . The <URL> lies adjacent to Renton Municipal which it uses to fly the aircraft in and out there <URL> . Similarly the main airbus factory is located next to <URL> . <URL> lies next to <URL> .
In <URL> , Northern Domestic Airspace ( NDA ) is the area of compass unreliability within which runways and NAVAIDs are oriented to true or grid north versus magnetic north . You should not need to worry about which NAVAID is to true north ; simply keep track of whether you 're in Southern or Northern Domestic Airspace .
A CG near the aft reduces drag by reducing the necessary downforce that has to be supplied ( usually ) by the <URL> . This is also a point for competition gliding ( more often than not you have water ballast in the vertical tailplane to compensate for those love handles ) . Aerobatic gliders sometimes feature aft lead ballast to enable maneuvers like tailspins which are not possible with a forward CG . Aft CGs come with reduced stability , which can be a severe flight-safety concern ( e.g. in case of <URL> ) . Some fighter aircraft feature inherently unstable aerodynamics ( see <URL> ) which offer great agility ( e.g. turning rates ) , but need constant input by a flight constrol system ( and woe if that <URL> , e.g. via <URL> ) . A forward CG results in greater flight stability and reduced danger of sudden stalling , but also increased drag ( because of the increased downforce required from the tailplane ) . In extreme cases this can limit the maneuverability as well and cause a <URL> ( the tailplane can only produce so much lift/downforce before itself stalls , at which point it is no longer holding your nose up ) .
The answers to your questions vary greatly depending on the individual airline , type of equipment , what kind of flying they do , as well as contractual and union ( if any ) work rules . The one thing that is generally the same and as noted in the previous answer and comment , is that scheduled lines of flying are published to the crews , and a bidding system based on seniority is used to assign those lines . Also , can routes be classified into tough and easy ? What one pilot considers tough another may consider easy . A better way perhaps to think of it is that what one pilot considers desirable , another may not , and that will be reflected in how the individual pilots bid . Some examples ( but certainly not exhaustive ) : Young pilots with families would typically bid away from Christmas flying . I , however , not being a fan of Christmas and with all my children grown , deliberately bid to work on Christmas to open a no-work-on-Christmas line for someone else . In the northern hemisphere winter , I would bid into Australia , South America , or Africa because I do n't like the short days of winter . In the northern hemisphere summer I tended to bid into places where I stood a good chance of getting to a beach . A lot of pilots bid simply to maximize income . And there were those who bid to maximize overnights at a place where they had an ongoing personal relationship . Whether or not a pilot gets to actually fly a line as published is another matter . If you 're flying for a scheduled airline that does no on-demand charter work , and you 're going from one company station to another company station , chances are good that you 'll get to fly the line as published . If , however , you 're flying for a company that does on-demand charter work , the probability of flying the line as published goes down as the percentage of charter work goes up , and this is especially true with a mixed fleet of passenger and cargo aircraft . I flew for two commuter airlines , and I almost always flew my awarded bid line as published . Then I flew for two 747 carriers , both of which did a lot of on-demand charters . In the 12 years of flying for the 747 carriers , I rarely flew a line exactly as it was published . If was a matter of when you would have to depart from your line , not if . There are companies that do nothing but on-demand charters . In those cases what you 're bidding is not where you 're going to fly , but which days you will be on-call . Does n't more traffic in a particular area mean more tougher ? Some would consider it tougher , some more fun . A higher workload certainly , but I always felt that was more fun . There 's something addictive , at least for me , to running approaches in high-density traffic . It 's quite exhilarating really .
The limits of the $ V _ { r } $ and $ V _ { 2 } $ are determined by the <URL> in place . The rotation speed is the speed at which the pilot can the aircraft rotation for take off even when one engine is inoperative . Consequently , this speed should be more than the minimum control speed with one engine inoperative , $ V _ { MC } $ . The current regulations stipulate that the $ V _ { r } $ should be at least 1.05 times $ V _ { MC } $ . The safe climb out speed or takeoff climb speed is the speed which the aircraft should have reached at a given altitude . As per FAA regulations , this height is 35 feet above the takeoff surface . The <URL> $ V _ { 2 } $ should be at least 20 % greater than the stall speed $ V _ { s } $ and 10 % greater than $ V _ { MC } $ . The <URL> prohibit lifting the nose landing gear before reaching $ V _ { r } $ and retracting it till the aircraft is completely airborne . All aircrafts undergo these tests during their certification process and these data is used by the pilots . Another thing is that both $ V _ { r } $ and $ V _ { 2 } $ are given in terms of calibrated air speed .
If there is a formula currently used generate an ETOPS time , no regulatory agency has made it public that I can tell . ETOPS originally grew out of a " 60-minute rule " that was the result of earlier distance-based rules ( see <URL> for a thorough history ) . My guess is that 60 minutes was a case of " well , that sounds good " rather than the result of any rigorous analysis . From there , it 's mostly been manufacturers slowly pushing and getting approved for longer and longer extensions ( usually just a <URL> that results in round-ish numbers -- again , this is policymaking , not engineering ) . However , take a look at the formulas on pages 9 -- 11 of <URL> . I hesitate to declare them the way to generate an ETOPS number because the report is thirty years old and a lot of it is critical of the methodology , so the regulators may have changed their approach between then and now . In fact , the report does not explicitly state that the formulas within were in use at the time , either . Nevertheless , if there is a formula in modern use , it likely uses a similar approach of quantifying the probabilities of failure and using a factor to convert them into a do-not-exceed diversion time . The difference between certification at 330 minutes ( 777 ) and 370 minutes ( A350 ) may be due to FAA vs. EASA methodologies and/or decreases in inherent failure probabilities as technology matures . With that , I doubt there is much difference in maintenance of a 777 vs. an A350 ( at least as far as ETOPS goes -- obviously their construction necessitates very different maintenance programs ) , as that 40-minute increase for the A350 was approved without any in-service maintenance data . It may be different for the 787 , which was not initially certified at 330 minutes . Going forward , I have no doubt we 'll see ETOPS 430 and above . Airbus already <URL> for the A350 , and perhaps we 'll see that after some time in service . At 420 minutes , there are only a few non-compliant routes ; I expect that , eventually , any new twin will be able to fly unrestricted between any two points and that there will be a shift in focus to trying to certify single-engine designs for longer and longer operations .
If you are seated behind the wings , but close , you can usually see black markings ( thick line and a number ) near the inboard side of the engine pylon which indicate their extension . Some might not be visible when the wing is in cruise configuration . Same goes for leading edge slats , only you 'd need to be seated near the overwing emergency exit to see those . I 've personally seen them on both Airbus and Embraer jets ( no recent flights on Boeing airframes so ca n't confirm if they mark them too ) . <URL> ( <URL> )
As mentioned Commercial should really be " Civilian " which includes Private and Commercial . Lets assume that military includes the various branches that employ pilots ( Navy , Air Force , Marines etc ) . In the end of the day everyone flies a plane ... A chunk of military aviation is devoted to combat related missions , this is something a civilian will never see ( at least as far as I know ) . This includes but is not limited to surveillance , escorts , combat and other military related missions . The military operates troop transport and cargo planes much like commercial operations do and they have pilots who fly them . I would think the tasks are very similar since moving people and cargo is moving people and cargo whether for the military or a civilian organization . The military obviously had access to flying some planes that would be tough to get into as a civilian ( fighter jets mainly ) . One operation that Civilian pilots will never see is take off and landing on a carrier . That is unique to Navy operations and as far as I know there is no way to do it as a civilian or even train for it ( unless you can buy a carrier ) . As far as regulations go the military aircraft and pilots are subject to military regulations ( in terms of up keep and things like that ) and must adhere to those rules which I believe are different in some cases than the FARs that govern US commercial and Private operations . That being said , if flying in US airspace the same rules apply to military planes that apply to civilian planes .
@Ron Beyer 's comment is correct . Here 's a little more information . Generally speaking , in narrow-body aircraft , it 's sufficient to calculate the CG only along the longitudinal axis . There may be limits along the lateral axis but which would only be exceeded with severely imbalanced wing fuel loads , and that is often handled by specifying a maximum fuel load imbalance . Wide body aircraft typically require looking at the lateral CG as well as the longitudinal CG . However , the allowed lateral moment about the longitudinal axis may be high enough that the limitation comes into play only when carrying cargo . That 's the case with 747-100/200 / 400 aircraft . As I remember , the max lateral imbalance for a 747-400 is 10,000,000 inch-lbs . There are some fixed-wing aircraft that require looking at the vertical CG . The 767-300 does . I do n't know about other 767 models . It 's not an issue for 747s . If you 're interested in playing with CG movement on 747-400 and 767-300 aircraft , you can go to <URL> and look at worked examples or do your own .
At present , all US military aircraft follow the <URL> . The first letter ( ' F ' or ' B ' ) denotes the mission of the aircraft , while the number denotes the design number . The designation system produces a Mission-Design-Series ( MDS ) designation . From <URL> : 4.1 . Designator Definition : 4.1.1 . The MDS designator is an official DoD recognized alpha-numeric symbol designation of a military defense aerospace vehicle . ... The designator describes the aerospace vehicle in two components where the components are separated by a hash.The first component , comprised only of alpha characters , describes the mission of the vehicle.The second component , comprised of both alpha-numeric characters , describes the design number and design series of the vehicle . 4.1.2 . Standard aircraft MDS designators are comprised of the following : status prefix ( optional ) , modified mission ( optional ) , basic mission ( required ) , design number ( required ) , design series ( required ) . The document also gives some examples of this implemenatation : <URL> <URL> Both tables from <URL> The 1962 system replaced the earlier system , where each service had their own systems in place for naming of aircraft . From 1924 - 1962 , the USAF ( and the <URL> before them ) used the <URL> . During the same time , the USN used the <URL> . Once the USAF was formed from the USAAF in 1947 , the US Army followed the <URL> till 1962 . Before all of these was the <URL> . More details about the aircraft designation can be found in <URL> . Basically , the counters were reset while the 1962 sytem was adopted , leading to unrelated sets of aircraft numbering . As for individual aircraft numbering , there has been a number of cases where the system was not followed , like the <URL> . Adherence to this system has been patchy at best . So , you have <URL> and <URL> after <URL> ( this was due to the counters being reset ) , while the next bomber has been named <URL> .
end question
start question
Why are the controls of transport category aircraft much heavier than light aircraft ?
The control forces are there by design . All airliners have artificial force feel from springs , dampers etc. . A B747 flies through the skies a lot faster than a Cessna 172 and bad things could happen if it were easy to deflect the flying controls at M 0.85 . The B737 elevator is a good case in point . It has <URL> ( artificial feel ) provided by a spring device , and the spring gradients stiffen up as a function of airspeed . At higher speeds it is quite hard to deflect the column by pushing/pulling and much easier to use the trim button to control the pitch . For Level D simulator control forces we measured the forces necessary to deflect the column fully when trimmed in mid position , which turned out to be a serious body-building exercise : About 200 N at zero airspeed About 500 N at 400 knots 20,000 ft. ( Measurement taken on ground with a pressure hose attached to the pitot tube , and aircraft on jacks with the landing gear retracted ) . By contrast , helicopter flying controls are light because helicopters are inherently unstable and a lot of stick action is necessary , particularly in the hover . In most helicopters the feel forces can be switched off completely with the trim button , resulting in a very light stick , perfectly OK with the relatively docile response of the helicopter . But a 747 is a stable airframe . A fast aircraft with large control deflections results in high accelerations , which can result in Pilot Induced Oscillations or structural damage to the airframe . The two measurements of B737 control column , digitised from the original plots and on the same scale : column position on the x-axis , force on the y-axis . By design , force required to deflect the column fully from about mid position is about 40 lbf at zero knots , 100 lbf at 400 knots . This is from an artificial q-feel system and the feel is implemented by design . The vertical distance between the sides of the curve is caused by friction . <URL> At 0 knots : Notice that around mid the spring gradient is very steep : the breakout , to indicate neutral position . Then between 0 and 5 inch a spring gradient of 4 lbf/inch . Beyond 5 inch a relatively flat gradient , to make it not too hard to deflect the column fully . <URL> At 400 knots : it is made hard to fully deflect the column . 100 lbf pull from a seated position is nothing to sneeze at .
The life ( Low Cycle Fatigue life ) on the Civil airliners is generally talked abut in terms of number of cycles i.e. number of flights . And since airliners undertake quite predictable flights in terms of loads and stresses , and typically a very limited variations among these parameters for their entire life ( since any aircraft would be designed for certain type of range and payload and would be used for that particular purpose mainly , for economic reasons ) , its easy to talk in terms of number cycles , since variations from flight to flight are limited . But this issue of keeping track of actual mission profile is very critical for fighter ( actually any military jet but I would restrict myself to only Fighters because its easier to point out the things for this case ) jets which have quite unpredictable usage profile . Any fighter jet is typically designed for a certain mission mix i.e. mixture of a bunch of mission profiles that the fighter is expected to carry with the expected relative frequency ( which comes from the past experience of an Air Force ) . But still in real life , the actual missions flown end up being quite different that this assumed mission mix . Now it is possible to utilize the airframe structural life to best possible extent by keeping track of actual mission profiles flown and debiting life for each mission from the designed number of hours . Obviously one needs to calculate the life debit for actual mission flown in terms of the equivalent hours for assumed designed mission mix . Say a fighter is designed for 8000hrs assuming it will fly 10 times of missions with certain frequency , and it recently flew a mission for which we know the parameter , then what would be the number of hours of equivalent life that was utilized from this 8000hrs . . ? To calculate this we need the loading parameters of each mission such as how many Gs were pulled for how long time intervals , how many rolls performed with what roll rate and so on . Every aircraft has system which collects this information ( measured by various sensors ) for entire mission . Once on the ground , this information is fed to what is called as " Life Tracking System " . It analyses the data , calculates how many hours of debit this mission took on the airframe and then decides what is remaining life . This can be done at component level as well and one can keep track of available life of each component and accordingly schedule maintenance for each component individually . I am not sure how this is exactly done for entire aircraft ( Looking for Patents by Aircraft OEMs would be a good way to start digging in ) , but I know for the Jet engines . The methodology should be the same in principle . Specifics might change . I suggest you read about Volvo Aero RM12 Life Tracking System ( LTS ) which finds its origin in GE 's LTS for F404 . ( <URL> ) and <URL> . Essentially all OEMs have similar systems now . RM12 has improved utility of the engine by ~ 30 % i.e. the engine is used for 30 % more time now as compared to the case where LTS was not used and differences in missions were not accounted for . Because many missions do not take as much toll on the structural life as it was expected during design ( or more number of less stressful missions are flown in actual practice than it was assumed for design ) . Most popular technique used to calculate the equivalent LCF life debit for each mission considering variations in loads and stresses for each mission specifically is known as <URL> . The process essentially looks like this : <URL> You apply the actual measured loads and see what stresses the analysis predicts for each mission . Then apply Rain flow Counting to calculate accumulated structural fatigue damage and residual life remaining . Rain drop counting is the model which helps you covert the irregular fatigue loading ( i.e. varying missions ) to equivalent cyclic loading and thereby coming up with a life debit number which is equivalent to the design mission mix and which you can subtract from the designed life hours . That 's how you can take care of variation in the missions and loadings in each mission .
Because that wing is a cantilevered beam which is now supporting over half the weight of the jet on it . This causes the wing to flex , much like a leaf spring , when loaded . While fascinating to watch this is benign and designed to do this . In addition , this wing flexure helps to absorb bumps , air turbulence , dampen flutter , maneuvering loadings , etc. much like the coil springs in your car 's suspension do . Do n't be alarmed to see this . Those wing structures have been tested to far worse loads and conditions that you will ever see on a revenue carrying flight before failure occurs . A 747 's wingtips can flex by as much as 12ft up/down during flight . Newer composite wings are capable of much greater flexure . This was video shot of Boeing 's destructive testing on the 777 wing . Note the wingtip flexes by as much as 20ft upward at a loading over 150 % that of its design load limits before structural failure occurred .
There are several advantages , here are a few : Design costs are lower for a family of aircraft ; major parts of the aircraft are the same in the family . A family of aircraft share the same type certificate . This means it is cheaper for the manufacturer to certify a family of aircraft . Within a family of aircraft , pilots can operate all aircraft with no or very little additional training required . This saves the airline a lot of money . Maintenance on a family of aircraft is cheaper since the majority of parts are common to all family members . This means having less spare parts in stock and less training for maintenance personnel . For an airline there is often a benefit in having some capacity diversity in a fleet . A new route often starts at low capacity . When the volume of passengers rises replacing the flight by a larger aircraft from the same family is not disruptive to crew schedules .
Speed was life in air combat until the jet age . The pilots who became Air Force generals in the Fifties had learned their trade in the Thirties when speed was the most-desired quality in a fighter . Naturally , the ability to be faster than any adversary was very important to them . When the requirements for new fighter aircraft were written in the Fifties , those generals made sure that a higher top speed was part of the specification . When those supersonic-capable aircraft were used in real conflicts , something very surprising and unforeseen happened : They did hardly ever fly supersonic . When the Air Force in the late Sixties accumulated the flight data from several years of Vietnam war air combat , they found that all aircraft had accumulated just minutes at Mach 1.4 and only seconds at Mach 1.6 out of more than 100,000 combat sorties ¹ . Never was even Mach 1.8 flown in aircraft which had been optimized for Mach 2.4 ( F-104 , F-105 , F-106A , F-4D / E and F-111 ) . To cite from this study why speed stayed mostly subsonic : The first of these reasons lies in the shape of the turn rate vs Mach number relationship for an aircraft . [ ... ] In combat , each pilot has the tendency to to fly his aircraft so as to maximize his turn rate . He thus gains angular position on the enemy which , in turn , may permit a missile launch or a gun firing . [ ... ] It can be seen that the pilot 's urge to maximize his turn rate will unfailingly drive his Mach number to about 0.7 . Thus , if the pilot is going to join in combat , [ ... ] his speed will inevitably drop to subsonic speeds . [ ... ] Note also , that even if the turn rate is held constant while increasing the speed , [ ... ] the turn radius and load factor increase , bringing with it increasing problems of keeping the enemy in sight . The second reason given in the study is the dramatically smaller <URL> ( the maximum distance the airplane can travel from its base , accomplish an objective and return ) once the aircraft starts to fly at supersonic speeds . Even for flying into the combat arena supersonic speed was rarely advantageous . Northrop studied a multitude of intercept cases and found that speeds above Mach 1.1 were almost never helpful because they curtailed the combat radius severely . Now you need to know that the top speed is an important driver in airframe design . Flying at Mach 2 + requires <URL> , a heat-resistant structure , high wing sweep and <URL> . This all degrades the combat qualities at high subsonic speed , which was where those aircraft were used the most . Building into them the capacity for Mach 2 + made them worse for what they were actually used for . From the late Sixties on this lesson was incorporated into the newer designs like the <URL> . Stealth again decreased the importance of supersonic capability , and the maximum sustained speed of the <URL> was actually reduced from Mach 1.8 to Mach 1.6 to reduce the heat load on the composite wing leading edge . ¹ Source : <URL> , AIAA Professional Study Series
My thesis , which I wrote so long ago that I no longer recall the title , was a complete redesign of the Boeing 747 cockpit from a human factors and usability point of view . My designs , which were submitted to Boeing at the time , likely helped create the foundation for the modern glass fly-by-wire cockpit . At the time , glass cockpits did not exist ( the term refers to the glass in the CRT monitors that were eventually used within the cockpit , later replaced by LCD displays ) . Fly-by-wire , which is the concept of replacing conventional flight controls with an electronic interface , was in its infancy . I remember working tirelessly to create a comprehensive new human interface for pilots that would minimize errors and improve safety . My research was based in the cognitive sciences , which consisted of university coursework in human physiology , neuroanatomy ( rudimentary at the time ) , psychology , statistics , engineering , computer science , mathematics , linguistics , neural networks ( the very first ones ) , and artificial intelligence . It was a rigorous and diverse education . I spent hours and hours watching films of pilots performing a vast array of different procedures . Sometimes they were successful , and sometimes they were not . When they were not , it often resulted in serious consequences . I spent long nights listening to hour after hour of dialog between air traffic controllers and pilots . I studied detailed accident and near-accident reports . I also interviewed pilots and spent a fair amount of time inside commercial cockpits , between flights , gathering essential data . One of the challenges that I vividly recall was reducing complexity for pilots , while keeping the tasks difficult enough so they would stay engaged to their tasks and not fall asleep or become distracted . The most rewarding part of developing my thesis was converting the cockpit from what I called a control-based center to a task-based center . Up until that time , most controls available to pilots were designed to directly impact a flight control surface such as the rudder . There were some rudimentary " intelligent " controls to perform basic horizontal and vertical navigation ( but nothing that integrated the two ! ) . I designed a new system that was based on high level tasks that the pilot would need to perform . No longer were ailerons , elevators , flaps , and thrust the focus . Instead , I changed the focus of the cockpit to center on essential tasks such as taking off , landing , route planning , communications , and traffic and weather avoidance . During this work , I learned that I had to seamlessly integrate my human factors engineering and user experience design skills . In my opinion , and from my personal experience , they always need to be . Whenever I fly , I ask to take a look at the cockpit after we land . It 's a joy to see the evolution of my designs . Whether I was the originator of these designs or one of many human factors engineers who came up with them at the same time , I will never know . But similarities of the current designs to what I proposed in my thesis many years ago gives me a little insight into a possible answer to that question .
I found this on <URL> " Some call signs are less obviously associated with a particular airline than others . This might be for historic reasons ( South African Airways uses the callsign " Springbok " , hearkening back to the airline 's old livery which featured a springbok ) , or possibly to avoid confusion with a call sign used by an established airline . Companies ' assigned names may change as a result of mergers , acquisitions , or change in company name or status ; British Airways uses BOAC 's old callsign ( " Speedbird " ) , as British Airways was formed by a merger of BOAC and British European Airways . Country names can also change over time and new call signs may be agreed in substitution for traditional ones . " Before America West bought US Airways , their callsigns were Cactus ( associated with the deserts of the American West ) and USAir . After the merger , the combined airline kept the better-known ( airline ) name , and the other airline 's callsign . Now , after the acquisition/merger of American Airlines , they 're using that airline 's name and callsign . Leading to more than a few radio calls recently ( late spring / early summer 2015 ) along the lines of
It seems you looked at flights which had begun shortly before . Since intercontinental flights require a higher <URL> to carry enough fuel for the trip , the airplane can not climb as high initially as one with little fuel onboard . Note that the maximum range of a <URL> , while the flight you chose to take as the basis for your question covered only 1936 km . The tanks were probably less than half full , and depending on the <URL> , the airplane was probably well below its maximum take-off mass , hence it had <URL> early in the flight . Had you included intercontinental flights close to their destination , your question would had been different . Note that TSC284 flew in <URL> shortly before descending . At this point , the tanks held only a fraction of the fuel at take-off , and for a flight of 7526 km it had probably taken off close to its maximum take-off mass . The fuel load of long-range aircraft like the <URL> can be more than 40 % of the take-off mass , so <URL> can make a lot of difference in the maximum possible flight altitude .
There is no civillian autopilot for an F-16 , because there are no non-military F-16s . Ditto with the F-117 or or B-1 or B-2 , so who knows what unique modes those autopilots have for their uniquely military missions ( i.e. dropping bombs or low level terrain following ) . However , when the military aircraft has a non-military equivalent ( KC-10 / DC-10 , KC-135 / B707 , C-40 / T-43 / B737 , C-21 / Learjet , T-44 / C-12 / KingAir , etc ) then the autopilots are generally identical . Any differences are more likely to be found in FMC software rather than in the Autopilot , and those differences would be very specific to each aircraft &amp; its mission .
TCAS can deal with conflicts with multiple aircraft , a so called Multiple Threat Encounter . It will attempt to resolve the conflict but it will be limited in its options . Examples of a MTE are rare , one case I can point to is <URL> involving an aircraft turning into the approach stream between two aircraft instead of following the last in line . <URL> has reported on MTEs and the TCAS algorithm performance in 2009 . They report the majority of MTEs involved three aircraft , but mention one TCAS MTE involving seven aircraft .
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau did a report titled : <URL> This report specifically covers this and found that the accident rate was three times higher in kit built - vs - similar factory build aircraft : What did this report do The ATSB investigated the safety history of amateur-built aircraft in Australia through analysis of accident data held in the ATSB 's occurrence database from 1988 to 2010 . Comparisons were made between accidents involving amateur-built aircraft and those involving similar factory-built aircraft to help identify whether the rate and types of accidents differed between these two groups of aircraft . What the ATSB found Amateur-built aircraft had an accident rate three times higher than comparable factory-built certified aircraft conducting similar flight operations between 1988 and 2010 . The fatal and serious injury accident rate was over five times higher in amateur-built aircraft , in particular due to relatively more serious injury accidents . The pilots of amateur-built aircraft involved in accidents were significantly more experienced overall than factory-built aircraft accident pilots . However , they were significantly less experienced on the aircraft type that they were flying at the time of the accident . Over half of the accidents were precipitated by mechanical events , which were mainly complete or partial engine failures . Following the amateur-built phase one test period , mechanical failures were still significantly more common when compared with factory-built aircraft . A quarter of accidents were from loss of aircraft control . Structural failures were not common precursors in amateur-built aircraft . Collision with terrain and forced landing accidents were more frequent in amateur-built aircraft . Collisions with terrain , hard landings , and runway excursions were more likely to result in a serious injury from an amateur-built aircraft accident than for factory-built accidents . On the other hand , the EAA says that homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate of less than 1 % higher than the general aviation fleet in their <URL> , but this did n't compare homebuilt to factory built in similar models : How Safe Are Amateur-Built/Homebuilt Aircraft ? Studies by FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board ( NTSB ) show that Amateur-Built/Homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate less than one percentage point higher than the general aviation fleet . In fact , the accident rate for Amateur-Built/homebuilt aircraft is dropping . The total number of registered homebuilt aircraft is increasing by about 1,000 per year , while the total number of accidents has stayed virtually the same . Another good barometer of safety is insurance rates . Companies that insure both homebuilts and production aircraft charge about the same rates for owners of either type of airplane . That indicates a similar level of risk .
One reason is interception ( with interceptor , not missiles ) . Defence is probably more important . Defence with fighters is still important for three reasons : There are relatively effective counter-measures against surface-to-air missiles . A fighter pilot can adjust the strategy to the counter-measures encountered , missile ca n't . In peace or limited conflict situations it is often not known whether a suspicious target is hostile at all and the only way to identify it is to have a fighter fly to it and have the pilot identify it with their eyes . Fighter can also do other things than use lethal force . In peace time you generally do n't want to shot down an intruding military aircraft of another country straight away . Fighter can chase it away from your territory or can try to arrest it ( force it to land on your own airbase ) . And fighters are also used to identify and possibly navigate to safety civil aircraft that lost radio contact . So when a potentially hostile aircraft is detected entering your territory , fighters are sent to intercept it and help it , arrest it or shot it down depending on what it turns out to be . If the fighters are slower than the intruder , they may not be able to intercept it at all ( they do n't usually know where it is flying so they ca n't wait for it ) . The faster they are , the larger area they can defend . In this case the interceptors take off without external fuel tanks ( as they wo n't be flying very far ) and with only relatively small air-to-air missiles , so they can fly fast . Conversely if you try to penetrate the enemy territory , flying faster limits the number of fighters that can intercept you . However in this case it is more useful to rely on stealth or flying low to evade detection , so attack aircraft often are either not supersonic or have lower maximum speed .
The counterweights in the original question were from a Boeing 747 rudder , so I will explain what their purpose is . John Walter 's answer covers all applications of balances and ballast well enough , so I just want to explain why control surfaces need balances . The short answer is : To bring the center of gravity on or even ahead of the elastic line of the control surface in order to limit gust loads and suppress flutter . The same is achieved for the full wing when <URL> . First consider an aileron without a balancing mass . Its elastic axis is the hinge line and its center of gravity is maybe at a third of its chord , so it sits aft of the elastic axis . Now imagine what happens when the aircraft to which this aileron is attached flies through a positive gust : The wing bends up and inertial loads will keep the aileron from moving up with the wing . However , since it is attached to the wing at the hinge , its forward edge will be pulled up , resulting in a positive aileron deflection . This adds local camber and increases local lift , so the bending motion is intensified . At some point the wing stops moving up and the stored elastic energy reverses the bending motion : The wing starts to move down , and again will the aileron lag behind , now reducing local lift and again intensifying the bending motion . Watch <URL> to see the resulting motion ( the scary stuff starts at 2:40 ) : Now you might argue that in the 747 strong hydraulic cylinders keep the aileron from moving : Right , but still there is enough elasticity in the control system to let the aileron move a few degrees , which is enough to amplify the bending motion . The glider in the movie had high-aspect ratio wings of a rather elastic material ( glassfiber-epoxy ) , so it flutters at a low speed where the energies and frequencies are low . Nevertheless , after the movie was filmed it had to be overhauled : The control fittings were almost completely worn out . Now consider the same arrangement , but with balancing mass : The aileron will either stay neutral , if its center of gravity is in the elastic line , or will even counter the bending motion if the center of gravity is ahead of the hinge line . Both peak loads and flutter risk will be reduced . More agreeable control forces are just a side effect ; the main reason is to keep the control surfaces or even the whole wing from breaking off . The mechanism is the same for the rudder , but here the elasticity comes from the long fuselage tube which will be twisted by the side loads on the vertical tail . Again , only with enough balancing mass will the self-reinforcing nature of a twisting fuselage that swings the vertical tail left and right be avoided .
The multiple methods of braking help to stop an aircraft faster , both through providing different means of braking and complementing each other . The wheel brakes are the primary method of braking on the aircraft . They work at any speed and can provide good braking force depending on the amount of friction between the tires and ground . Brakes convert the aircraft 's kinetic energy into heat , and have a limited ability to dissipate that heat . Aircraft may be delayed from taking off to allow brakes to cool down after a rejected takeoff or a short turnaround . Brakes wear down over time and must be replaced . Aircraft that are light and slow may be fine with only wheel brakes , as the other methods are less effective in this case and would add complexity and weight . Speed brakes or spoilers usually extend from the top surface of the wing . This both increases drag and reduces the lift produced by the wings , and are most effective at higher speeds . Reduced lift means more weight on the wheels , increasing their friction and the effectiveness of brakes . Airliners will typically extend the spoilers immediately after touchdown to increase braking and control effectiveness as they slow down . Aircraft are required to be able to demonstrate a rejected takeoff and stop using only brakes and spoilers on a dry runway . Techniques such as keeping the nose high as long as possible or just holding up elevator can also add aerodynamic braking . Reverse thrust redirects some of the engine 's thrust forward . This provides a braking force and for engines under the wing also helps interrupt airflow over the wing , reducing lift . Jet engines redirect core and/or fan air forward , propellers may change pitch to push the air forward . This can be particularly important on contaminated runways were low friction limits the effectiveness of the brakes . Reverse thrust is generally only used at higher speeds to reduce the risk the debris or exhaust being ingested . These are the primary methods available on airliners . Brakes are the most versatile but require friction and must be replaced . Speed brakes and reverse thrust use aerodynamic forces at higher speeds to help slow down , and increase effectiveness of brakes . Speed brakes are basically " free " , reverse thrust is relatively cheap and effective . Reducing the load placed on wheel brakes reduces temperature and wear ; steel brakes deteriorate much more at higher temperatures . Having multiple methods provides some redundancy as well , but when runway friction is poor it 's important that they are all used effectively to stop the aircraft . Drag chutes are another option to slow down . Upon landing , the parachute is released and uses drag to slow an aircraft down . The parachute provides large amounts of drag but must be collected and re-packed after every landing . This is useful for aircraft with high landing speeds where cost is less of an issue , such as fighter jets or the space shuttle . Tail hooks grab cables on the ground , and the cable provides the braking force to the aircraft . This can stop the aircraft quickly but requires an aircraft designed with a hook that can withstand the braking forces . Hooks are useful on aircraft carriers where space is at a premium , but this requires pilot skill to touch down in the right place for the hook to catch the cable . Hooks can also be used on regular runways for emergencies , where the extended hook will catch the cable as the aircraft rolls past .
The four-digit transponder code that is entered by a pilot is an octal number rather than a decimal number , and in the octal numbering system , only the digits 0-7 are valid . As far as why , internally it 's actually a 12-bit binary number and octal works really well since can be used as a " shortcut " for entering groups of three binary digits at a time ( 000 - 111 , which is 0-7 in octal ) . If it were designed today , with the additional computing power and software complexity available , it would be possible to use a decimal number even if it is stored as binary internally , just so that it is more familiar . At the time that the system was created though , changing the dials directly set the code in hardware and doing the conversion would have been much more complex / difficult / expensive . In short , it was convenient for the engineers and manufacturers , and just an oddity for the end users , so they left it that way .
In an aircraft the brake pedals control the respective side brakes . This allows for the pilot to turn the aircraft not only with the pivoting nose wheel ( if it has one ) but also with the brakes . This allows for a very tight turning radius . <URL> ( <URL> ) If each pedals controls different sets of wheels eg the left wheels and the right wheels of the main gear , is that not a safety flaw rather than measure given that at any point in time , It is by design to allow for the tight turning . Some smaller aircraft also do not have a steerable nose wheel so differential braking is the only option . it is impossible for the pilot to apply an equal amount of pressure to the brakes ? Pushing equally on each toe pedal will result in equal brake operation . Is n't ABS enough to the point that only one pedal is enough . The pedals allow for brake steering which a single pedal would prevent . <URL> but that simply prevents the tires from skidding . Finally do both captain and pilot step on the brakes at landing . IF not then why have two pedals ? Im not sure , when I fly with an instructor or co-pilot in smaller planes only one person operates the brakes .
Well , I 'll start by saying that ( at least to my knowledge , in the USA ) there are no certificated/PMA 'd / TSO 'd LiFePO4 batteries currently available on the market for use in certificated airframes . That means if you 're using a type-certificated aircraft ( or an LSA that did n't ship with one originally and for which there is no manufacturer-approved procedure to install one ) you 're basically out of luck unless you can convince your local FSDO to approve it as a one-off modification to your airframe . That said , there are some people using them in homebuilts . <URL> has used one on his SQ2000 to replace the starter/cranking battery , and <URL> which some folks seem to be using in ( experimental ) Carbon Cubs with a good deal of success . As to the batteries themselves , my aircraft is certificated , I 've got no desire to take it experimental , and my relationship with the local FSDO is not one where I could just walk in and say " I want to stick one of these in my plane . Sign off on the 337 form KTHXBYE ! " so this is all just theoretical : Operationally , LiFePO4 is a relatively safe chemistry . Unlike conventional lead-acid batteries it 's not going to spit sulfuric acid on your plane during charging or hard maneuvering . Unlike other Lithium-based chemistries ( say Lithium-Cobalt of Dreamliner fire fame ) it 's not as prone to blowing up or catching fire if short-circuited or otherwise abused ( though puncturing it is still a Bad Thing ) . Note however that as LiFePO4 is a lithium based chemistry water may not be the best extinguishing agent for a ruptured/burning battery . One of the potential decomposition products of a burning or ruptured LiFePO4 battery in the presence of water is Hydrogen Fluoride ( HF ) , which is rather nasty stuff . Handling and Charging is generally normal - as in you can connect it to your aircraft charging system with appropriately-rated breakers/fuses . Checking cell balance is recommended periodically , but without adequate information on the use of these batteries in aircraft we ca n't say what " periodically " means -- Every 10 hours ? Every 50 ? Annually ? ( If installing one of these in a homebuilt I 'd start with every 10 hours and work from there ) . Robustness should be superior to lead-acid batteries in all respects ( mechanical and electrical ) . For use in an aircraft a sturdy housing around the cells would be a Must Have to prevent the battery from being ruptured in the event of an incident , but that could be produced reasonably . Electrically LiFePO4 has a lower self-discharge rate , better tolerance for overcharging , and better ( flatter ) discharge curves - all Good Things . It is also stable over a wide range of temperatures , and at least theoretically will outlast lead-acid batteries on a charge/discharge cycle and calendar-year basis ( though again , without real-world utilization data we ca n't really say anything for sure here ) . Cost-Benefit is hard to qualify . LiFePO4 batteries can be had cheaper than " aircraft batteries " , largely owing to the fact that they 're not approved for use in certificated aircraft . Because of their higher energy density they 're also substantially lighter for the same amp-hour capacity , which is always attractive when we 're talking about aircraft applications . All of those benefits are n't worth a warm bucket of spit to me because I ca n't install one in my airplane ( though I 'd certainly consider it seriously if it were a viable option ) . If you can install one in your airplane as a replacement for your main battery it may well be worth considering .
Why would you fly with a <URL> when you can have a clean aircraft ? Sure , there are many canard kit plane designs , but when you look closer at their performance , its is not improved by the location of the elevator . <URL> would always choose a higher wing loading than required to fulfill the <URL> , so his designs could cruise faster . When asked about this , his usual response was " ** ck the FAA ! " . When you look closely , canards will give you : With natural pitch stability a higher lift coefficient on the forward wing which also needs to have some margin for control surface deflections . Consequently , the big , rear wing is operating at a fraction of its potential when the aircraft stalls . The vorticity from the front wing creates a <URL> at the mid section of the rear wing and an upwash at the outer sections . The strength of these induced speeds varies with speed , so the main wing can produce an elliptic circulation at only one angle of attack . At other angles , its induced drag is higher than what is possible with a conventional configuration . The center of gravity is ahead of the main wing , so the landing gear needs to retract into the fuselage , taking space away from the cockpit . To move the wing center section forward , so it can accommodate the landing gear , the wing needs to be swept ( <URL> ) . There is no good position to put a vertical surface , so again sweep is used to shift some part of the airframe backwards and combine the vertical with winglets . Those need to point upwards , so they do not hit the ground during take-off and landing when the <URL> . Canards start to make sense when they are <URL> , but this is not a good approach for a GA aircraft .
For ( modern ) gliders with highly optimized laminar flow <URL> , bugs ( or dirt ) are a non-negligible factor , especially in competition gliding . There are some older laminar airfoils that are notoriously allergic to bugs ( and rain ) , but all are to a certain degree . This is also the reason why any glider pilot worth his or her salt will painstakingly clean their ship each afternoon and before each competition flight . Sufficient bugs will degrade your performance by a noticeable amount - most gliding computers even have a special " bug " factor to include that into glide path calculation ( even though the measuring and correllation of that is quite subjective ) . I ´ ve had a few flights in somewhat biblically bug-infested conditions ( summer , hot , low thermals ) that more or less painted the leading edge black ( like in this picture from an <URL> ) . Bug wipers are quite common on high-end and competition gliders and can be found e.g. at <URL> . Or try to google for " Mückenputzer " . Of course bug wipers are not without drawbacks ( concerning cost , installation , ease of use , drag etc. ) . A friend of mine once stuck a banana peel on his wing and tried to remove that with the wiper , resulting in banana and wiper being stuck in the middle of the wing . It took some creative maneuvers to clear that mess , by which time probably a lifetime aerodynamic benefit of cleaning had been spent . As for the comparison with cars , their <URL> differ in a lot of ways . In comparison to a wing there is no laminar flow to talk of at higher speeds ( most of it is turbulent ) , which drastically reduces the influence of the surface smoothness on the drag produced .
Farhan 's answer covered why the deck is angled in the first place . As far as why the landing area of the deck points left instead of right , this is for several reasons : Angling to port makes the most use of the deck area behind the catapults . Angling starboard would require the catapults to be shifted left off the centerline of the carrier ( yes , the carrier does have two additional catapults on the port side , but these ca n't be used while the carrier is retrieving aircraft , which is more often than you 'd think as the carrier maintains regular patrols ) . Angling the landing strip toward the " island " ( conning tower ) of the carrier just does n't sound like a good idea when you say it . That goes double when you realize the carrier is underway while you 're trying to land on it , and therefore you have to lead the landing strip a little . If you do n't , you 'll end up " behind " the ship and the landing strip . With the landing strip angled to port , a plane on a " lagging " approach ( lined up " behind " where the carrier 's going to be at touchdown ) will have a relatively clear path off to port for a wave-off . Angled to starboard , a plane that 's " lagging " the carrier would be pointed right at the tower . It would be possible to mirror the entire deck layout ; island to port , landing area angled starboard . The reason the island is on the starboard side is primarily convention ; all U.S. Navy aircraft carriers ever built have been either flush-decked or have had the island to the right . That 's thus a familiar sight picture for naval pilots across all eras , and easy to train to . A new carrier design does n't get the luxury of a whole new crew trained an entirely different way ; the Navy 's been training pilots since 1910 , they 've been landing planes on boats since 1927 , and they 'll do it they way they 've been doing it for 88 years , thank you very much . The Imperial Japanese Navy commissioned two carriers , Akagi and Hiryu , with island-left designs , fielded with the idea that the island-left carrier would sail in formation with an island-right carrier in the same flag group , with opposing traffic patterns that did n't conflict . This procedure never materialized in practice ; most carrier groups in both Japanese and U.S. fleets ended up with a single carrier due to their high cost and lower total number , a pattern that continues today , and even when two ( or more ) carriers were close enough to be called part of the same naval group , they typically maintained a wide enough spacing to permit a left-hand pattern for both ships .
end question
start question
Is there any ATS into the Special Use Airpaces ( SUA ) ?
In many cases , there are controllers dedicated to providing ATC services to the aircraft that are USING the SUA . Callsigns such as " Nellis Range " or " Eglin Mission " are used for the controllers working with aircraft within the SUA , be it MOA or Restricted or Warning areas or whatever . What looks like one big chunk of airspace on the chart may likely be divided into separate areas for training or testing purposes that the aircraft flying into it will know about , and it 's useful ( sometimes , vital ) to have a controller monitoring the various missions and keeping the various aircraft apart . These controllers may work in a dedicated facility that only deals with military aircraft , or they may work within a larger facility that includes " regular " ATC functions as well . For instance , the controllers who work the off-shore warning areas south of Eglin AFB as well as the on-shore restricted areas east and west of Eglin are physically located in the same RAPCON that is Eglin approach . So civilian aircraft inbound to Crestview or Destin or Eglin/Ft Walton Beach are talking to controllers working one set of scopes , but across the room are the controllers for Eglin Mission who are watching the various SUA . An aircraft that departs Eglin ( or Hurlburt , or Duke Field ) would probably be talking to one of the former initially , then when they head into one of the restricted or warning areas , they 'd be handed off from " Eglin Approach " to " Eglin Mission . " Essentially it 's like being handed off from one Approach sector to another , just that the Mission controllers have slightly different roles in keeping the airspace safe . It 's far better to clear an aircraft transiting a particular sector of SUA to fly through it ABOVE the aircraft in it that is employing air-to-ground ordinance , for instance , than clearing him through the airspace BELOW the bomb-dropper ! Or , if necessary -- maybe it 's a helo with an emergency that needs a straight line return to base and is n't going to climb up very high -- at least you have the bomb-dropper go cold and hold up high until the transiting aircraft is out of the way ! That 's the sort of ATC that Eglin Mission does that Eglin Approach does n't ... along with confirming that this callsign is in fact scheduled for this range at this time , and the last aircraft has departed , so " you 're cleared in to Range XYZ to work surface to 15,000 ' , advise 5 minutes prior to departing . " Fun times !
The <URL> says : The system uses power from the engines , thus reducing their maximum performance . With the anti-ice system on , the highest altitude at which the overloaded aircraft could fly -- without stalling -- was reduced to 31,900 feet ( 9,700 m ) . The de-icing system on most turbine aircraft ( including MD-82 involved in that accident ) uses bleed air from the engines , that is it extracts some air from behind the ( low pressure stage of the ) compressor . This air is therefore not ejected from the nozzle and not producing thrust , so the thrust is reduced . Or fuel flow rate increased if thrust levers are advanced to compensate , provided the engines are still below their maximum permitted thrust setting . Either way fuel consumption per mile increases . Compressing air increases it 's temperature , so this pressurized air is simply blown through tubes under the critical surfaces . There are other uses of bleed air , mainly pressurization and air-conditioning , but turning on deicing increases it 's consumption significantly . And note that this switching de-icing off and on was part of the accident sequence . It was only because they turned de-icing off that they were able to climb to FL330 in the first place . It is also often not allowed to use de-icing when outside temperature is higher than some value because the heated surfaces could overheat .
Yes . Ignoring companies that used to exist but are now bankrupt/merged into Airbus or Boeing , you have companies from countries that are n't historically too friendly with the US and Western Europe . For instance , Tupolev makes the <URL> , which is currently in production and seats over 175 passengers . The Ilyushin-designed <URL> is a widebody in current use some places ( Russia , Cuba ) . Before the Cold War ended , Russia had more indigenous airliners ; Aeroflot now largely uses Boeings and Airbuses , but there are still Russian aircraft that see use . In addition , you have newer manufacturers starting to enter the market : Bombardier with their <URL> , Comac ( in China ) with their <URL> ( in development ) , and Irkut with their <URL> ( in development ) . Embraer makes <URL> ( although they 're shorter-range , and you might consider them regional jets ) .
Yes , <URL> , former Formula 1 pilot and ATPL holder , founded <URL> , for which he also <URL> . Lauda returned to running his airline , Lauda Air , on his second Formula One retirement in 1985 . During his time as airline manager , he was appointed consultant at Ferrari as part of an effort by Montezemolo to rejuvenate the team . After selling his Lauda Air shares to majority partner Austrian Airlines in 1999 , he managed the Jaguar Formula One racing team from 2001 to 2002 . In late 2003 , he started a new airline , Niki . Lauda holds a commercial pilot 's licence and from time to time acted as a captain on the flights of his airline . Lauda Air ceased operations in July 2013 .
SAA is a project being undertaken to unify how SUA 's ( and <URL> 's ) are defined , managed , and shared . [ SAA will ] define SUAs and ATCAAs in a consistent manner using an editing tool Use a Service Oriented Architecture ( SOA ) to distribute that data to interested users Manage the schedule and status of those airspaces through a SOA . SAA is part of the <URL> ( SWIM ) . In short , SAA encompasses SUA , ATCAA , etc. . Source : <URL> ( . ppt file )
It is still possible ( and in my experience not that difficult ) to get FAA tower tours ( and sometimes even TRACON or Center tours ) , though you should be reasonable in your expectations here -- You are probably NOT going to get a tour of the tower at JFK or LAX . The FAA used to actively encourage pilots with an instrument rating ( or pursuing instrument training ) to sign up for ATC facility tours under a program called <URL> -- This program is still running , though it 's been substantially scaled back ( Poke around on the FAA Safety Team 's <URL> , or sign up for notices in your area and keep a sharp eye out . <URL> ) . ( As an example of how quickly the slots fill up , when N90 ( New York TRACON ) last had a Raincheck event it was full within a few hours of being announced . No , I did n't get a slot . ) At towered GA airports - particularly ones with a lot of flight training - you can also contact the tower directly . <URL> but that 's a little out of date . You can also get the phone number from Flight Service , the local FSDO , or ask the tower/ground controller for the number if they 're not too busy . When you call the facility explain that you 're a pilot/student pilot and would like to arrange to tour the facility ( and if possible shadow a controller ) . They will usually ask for your name , address , airman certificate number , and a few other things to run a check and get approval to let you in to the facility . You will also be expected to have government issued photo ID with you when you show up . My experience arranging a tour of our local tower was extremely pleasant - they are happy to do the tours and let you shadow a controller , and I even got to pick their brains about some peculiarities in local procedures . It 's a great educational experience , and I would recommend it for any pilot/student pilot .
The first pressurized aircraft were piston powered , beginning as early as 1921 with a modified Airco DH .9 A containing a pressurized enclosure for the pilot . Throughout the 20s and 30s , pressurization systems developed in reciprocating powered aircraft with benchmarks like the <URL> being the first pressurized aircraft using bleed air from its super chargers to pressurize the cabin and the <URL> , the first pressurized airliner . World War II saw plenty of pressurized pistons like versions of the <URL> and the <URL> , as well as the <URL> . Postwar airliners were also pressurized like the <URL> , the <URL> and the <URL> were all good examples of this . With the introduction of jets , these quietly faded into obscurity . There are a few pressurized piston single and twins in operation today , though manufacturers did not make very many . Probably the most successful pressurized single is the <URL> series introduced in the 1980s and still in production today , in bother the form of the reciprocating PA-46-350 Mirage and the turbine powered PA-46-500 and -600 Meridian . In the late 70s and early 80s a number of manufacturers attempted to enter the pressurized entry cabin class single engine market . Cessna offered a Pressurized version of the <URL> called the P210 which is no longer produced but still popular with GA pilots today . Mooney , after finding marginal success with its pressurized <URL> from the 1960s , decided to produce a pressurized six seat cabin class airplane called the <URL> . It was stillborn due to financial pressures from Mooney 's new owners but the best technology from it was cannibalized in a ill-fated partnership with Aerospatiale ( now Daher Socata ) in Tarbes France to produce a single engine turbine airplane which eventually became the <URL> ( TBM stands for Tarbes Mooney ) . Even a few homebuilt piston singles have been pressurized . <URL> , <URL> , and piston versions of their <URL> are all pressurized and capable of nearly 300 KTAS at FL250 . More piston twins have been pressurized as well . Cessna produced a pressurized version of the <URL> called the P337G , as well as the <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Piper produced the <URL> . Beech produced the <URL> as well as a variant of the <URL> called the B88 . Rockwell produced the <URL> .
There 's one I can think of immediately , and that 's the granddaddy of them all , the <URL> . The X-1 's control system was unassisted and it had no hydraulic system . The only part of the control system that was assisted was the horizontal stabilizer , which was <URL> . I think most of the early supersonic test airplanes were mechanically operated .
Short answer : For clarification : Equivalence between biplane and monoplane means than both have the same wing area and the same engine . Then the main differences in maneuvering are : The biplane has better roll acceleration than an equivalent monoplane . The biplane has a higher roll rate than an equivalent monoplane at the same speeds . All biplane flying takes place at lower speeds , resulting in a lower space requirement for all maneuvers . This also means that inertial effects are less pronounced : When pulling up , there is less kinetic energy available for climbing , so ( for example ) hammerhead turns will end with less altitude gain . Differences in handling : The biplane has lower aileron forces for the same roll rate at the same speed lighter control forces overall due to lower flight speed Differences in performance : shorter take-off and landing distances a lower stall speed a much lower maximum speed a lower optimum cruise speed and range a lower power requirement due to the lower flying speeds , or if both use the same engine , a better power-to-weight ratio when compared to an equivalent monoplane . These differences are most pronounced if the airplane carries just the pilot and not much payload . Flying techniques are the same as for monoplanes . Indirectly , differences are likely due to differences in design . Example : Few biplanes profit from having a retractable landing gear while gear retraction makes sense for monoplanes with higher power loading ( installed power relative to wing area ) . Explanation Biplanes have two major differences : Smaller wing span at the same wing area , and Wire bracing results in very lightweight biplane wings . The smaller span reduces roll damping and roll inertia , so a biplane will accelerate into a roll more quickly than an equivalent monoplane and will reach a higher roll rate . This is the main difference in maneuvering . The smaller wing span results in more induced drag if both have the same mass and the same speed . With wire bracing , this condition is unrealistic , and an equivalent biplane will be much lighter . If the structure is a substantial part of the aircraft 's mass ( this is typical for aerobatic airplanes ) , the result can easily be less induced drag , despite the lower span , and also lower wing loading . This in turn means that both fly at different speeds : The biplane will be able to fly much slower , but the aerodynamic drag of the bracing will restrict it to low speeds . This also means inertial effects are less pronounced : The lower mass and lower speed of the biplane combine for a marked difference to the equivalent monoplane . For aerobatic displays this is ideal : All action takes place close to the audience , and the biplane will need a much smaller area for all maneuvers than an equivalent , but heavier monoplane . The downside are low maximum speed and low range . Another difference in performance are much shorter take-off and landing distances due to the lower wing loading , which results in a lower stall speed . The optimum endurance and optimum range speeds are lower than those of an equivalent monoplane as well , so all biplane flying happens at lower speeds , which is beneficial for training aircraft . Since control forces are proportional to dynamic pressure , a biplane will have lower control forces than an equivalent monoplane . Here equivalence also means that the relative chord of all control surfaces is the same . In reality , a good designer will select a higher relative chord for the biplane 's control surfaces to ensure that control forces are above their required minimum . The heavy , unreliable engines of the early years made biplanes the ideal way of taking to the air . Once engines became more powerful and allowed higher payloads , the monoplane became better suited to carrying passengers and freight at higher speeds and over longer distances .
Yes , there has : <URL> The war also saw the only confirmed air-to-air helicopter battles in the history of warfare , with Iraqi Mi-25s flying against Iranian AH-1J SeaCobras on numerous occasions . The first instance of these helicopter " dogfights " occurred on the first day of the war ( 22 September 1980 ) : two Iranian SeaCobras crept up on two Mi-25s and hit them with TOW wire-guided anti-tank missiles . One Mi-25 went down immediately , the other was badly damaged and crashed before reaching base . The Iranians won a similar air battle on 24 April 1981 , destroying two Mi-25s without incurring losses themselves . According to unclassified documents , Iranian pilots achieved a 10-to-1 kill ratio over the Iraqi helicopter pilots during these engagements and even engaged Iraqi fixed-wing aircraft . These would be pretty loosely classified as a " dogfight " since the Iranian AH-1J 's " crept up " on the Mi-25 's . It is doubtful that the Mi 's did any kind of evasive maneuvering or that the AH 's did any kind of aggressive pursuits , but it is air-to-air combat between helicopters . The page from the <URL> gives a little more detailed report : This war also saw the only confirmed air-to-air helicopter battles in history with the Iraqi Mi-25s flying against Iranian AH-1J SeaCobras ( supplied by the United States before the Iranian Revolution ) on several separate occasions . In November 1980 , not long after Iraq 's initial invasion of Iran , two Iranian SeaCobras engaged two Mi-25s with TOW wire-guided antitank missiles . One Mi-25 went down immediately , the other was badly damaged and crashed before reaching base . The Iranians repeated this accomplishment on 24 April 1981 , destroying two Mi-25s without incurring losses to themselves . One Mi-25 was also downed by an IRIAF F-14A . The Iraqis hit back , claiming the destruction of a SeaCobra on 14 September 1983 ( with YaKB machine gun ) , then three SeaCobras on 5 February 1984 and three more on 25 February 1984 ( two with Falanga missiles , one with S-5 rockets ) . After a lull in helicopter losses , each side lost a gunship on 13 February 1986 . Later , a Mi-25 claimed a SeaCobra shot down with YaKB gun on 16 February , and a SeaCobra claimed a Mi-25 shot down with rockets on 18 February . The last engagement between the two types was on 22 May 1986 , when Mi-25s shot down a SeaCobra . The final claim tally was 10 SeaCobras and 6 Mi-25s destroyed . The relatively small numbers and the inevitable disputes over actual kill numbers makes it unclear if one gunship had a real technical superiority over the other . Iraqi Mi-25s also claimed 43 kills against other Iranian helicopters , such as Agusta-Bell UH-1 Hueys . I do n't believe there has been any recorded instance since the Iran-Iraq war , but during that conflict there were multiple instances of helicopter-vs-helicopter battles .
One example of a system that can not be switched off by the pilot that is probably more common to all other airframes than just the one airframe I 'm indicating . Whenever electrical power is applied to a Gulfstream G550 , whether it is powered by battery , generators , an apu , or some external power source , each engine 's FADEC Electronic Engine Control ( EEC ) computer will be powered and the pilot can not switch them off . The pilot could only indirectly turns them off by switching off all power sources . However , when the engines are running , he ca n't even do that since there is an engine-driven generator dedicated to powering the EECs in the event of a total power loss . In fact , while the engine is running or even windmilling above 35 % rpm , the EEC 's dedicated generator is supplying all power to the EEC and there is no switch or circuit protection that can be manipulated by the pilot to interrupt it .
Tip jet rotors are still being developed , none of them are ramjet powered as far as I know . The <URL> is tip rocket powered , while the <URL> uses air jets powered by a conventional engine . Ramjet technology has not improved , so the cases for using them on rotor tips has not changes . They are still too heavy , thirsty and noisy .
You are right , it helps to de-sweep the outer wing . However , as long as wings are made of aluminum , the manufacturing effort is significantly higher . The basic problem is the needed two-dimensional bending of the skin panels . Using a straight spar line and a straight leading edge requires bending only in one dimension , but when sweep changes , the skin panels would need to stretch in some corners while being bent . This requires much more expensive tooling , or a break in the structure which increases structural mass . Even <URL> I know of has a straight leading edge , even though the aircraft would have benefited from de-sweeping . Both the <URL> and the <URL> , which were designed by the same people before , had reduced sweep on the outer wing , and for good reason . When the multinational project started and they talked to the BAe engineers , the British side insisted on a straight leading edge for easier manufacture , ignorant of the fact that using composites made their point moot . Yes , that was practically the same company that had built the Victor before . Another disadvantage is the fact that any sweep change will convert bending moment into torsion , so de-sweeping the outer wing will introduce an uptwisting torsion which can excite wing flutter . If the wing 's aspect ratio is low , this is manageable , but with higher aspect ratios the wing needs to be stiffened . To answer your question directly : In the majority of cases it is aerodynamically advantageous to vary sweep with relative thickness , but it is not structurally and economically efficient . In the delta wings of combat aircraft which need to operate over a wide range of angles of attack , de-sweeping the outer wing produces indeed the best wing planform , even when economics is included .
It depends on the autopilot and you need to read the AFM to know what the limitations are . All of the business jets that I have flown prohibit the use of the autopilot below a specific altitude ( between 50 and 1,000 feet depending on the autopilot and the configuration of the airplane ) . Nothing prevents then from being used lower but it is n't allowed . They will engage on the ground ( in fact it is part of the required preflight tests ) but have a specific prohibition against use for takeoff and landing . Other airplanes and autopilots however are approved for autoland all of the way down to a full stop , and some for takeoff as well . Speeds also depend on the autopilot . Some automatically disconnect if the aircraft receives a stall warning or overspeed signal but others do n't .
Perhaps an aeronautic version of one of the Voith maritime systems ? This one appears to be electrically powered . <URL> ( watch the " installation " video ) . Also , this video explains the concept a bit ( for maritime applications ) I suppose if you could arrange a lightweight frictionless magnetic ring bearing ( possibly integrating electric drive ) , and/or peripheral drive linking system , it might be worth it if you needed to have two or three smaller fans beside each other , driven by a single core , rather than a singe large fan , in order to reduce fan/nacelle height . ( imagine a B52 nacelle with one side shortened to just a fan cowling ) I doubt that this would reduce overall drag , though , but I am intrigued by the concept of the greatest chord of the blades travelling the fastest .
Any yahoo can wash a plane ... even a pilot . The only regulation of which I am aware concerning washes involves maintenance . A maintainer must clean the aircraft in order to determine servicability of a component . The regulation does not specify who must do the cleaning , however . I doubt a FSDO ( in the US ) would read that as " A&amp;P must clean it . "
According to the <URL> ( the Flight Navigator Cert is rarely issued any more to my understanding but none the less ) . The standard unit of distance for navigation is the nautical mile ( NM ) . The NM can be defined as either 6,076 feet or 1 minute of latitude It goes on to talk about speed Closely related to the concept of distance is speed , which determines the rate of change of position . Speed is usually expressed in miles per hour ( mph ) , this being either SM per hour or NM per hour . If the measure of distance is NM , it is customary to speak of speed in terms of knots . Thus , a speed of 200 knots and a speed of 200 NM per hour are the same thing . It is incorrect to say 200 knots per hour unless referring to acceleration . It seems it comes down to what you measure distance in , then simply report the appropriate speed units . Most pilots will calculate ( and talk in units ) based on the instrumentation in their plane . Some airspeed indicators contain both knots and MPH however its not uncommon for them to contain only a single unit ( generally older GA planes is where I have seen MPH instruments ) . POH 's will generally contain what ever unit the air speed indicators in the original build of the plane contained ( some POHs will contain both units ) . Just to show some examples , <URL> while say a <URL> . For example this indicator contains both units . <URL> ( <URL> ) In the end of the day its most important that the units are not mixed up and or used interchangeably . As for the errors in airspeeds this is one of the reasons that air speed indicators have color queues to indicate things like stall range , flap extend range and smooth air operating range . This way if a pilot does accidentally confuse units there are other things to rely on . ( Side note there are some important speeds that do NOT appear on airspeed indicators that should always be noted ) . - Edit - To answer the comments below . I report distance in NM since thats what foreflight uses on its ruler function as well as its ring function ( at least the way I have it set up ) . Most plotters I have seen are in NM so even if I had a paper map I would be reporting NM as well . Im not sure the FAA has official declared that Knots are the only acceptable unit . MPH airspeed indicators are still considered air worthy so they must at least accept it on that level . There have been pushes to standardize instrumentation after the issues caused by the eastern vs. western attitude indicators but with the advent of glass cockpits most of these things can now be configurable in software and changed by a simple setting . The FAR 's ( such as 91.117 ) report speed in both KTS and MPH and that is the letter of the law from the FAA .
Shock wave is a physical phenomenon and as such is unavoidable . The best we can do is to reduce their intensity and reduce their effects on ground . A method to eliminate the shock wave ( theoretically ) was proposed by <URL> . His airframe , called the <URL> which consists of two triangular cross-section plates a certain distance apart ( so that choking is prevented ) with the flat sides parallel to the fluid flow . <URL> Image from Supersonic biplane -- A review by Kazuhiro Kusunose et al. . The idea is that the shock waves are formed internally between the two ( triangular ) ' airfoils ' and cancel each other out at design condition , shown in the first case . <URL> Image from Supersonic biplane -- A review by Kazuhiro Kusunose et al. . At off design conditions , shock waves are produced . However , this does n't produce any lift at zero angle of attack , as is obvious . As <URL> , ... the design lacks lift : The two wings create a very narrow channel through which only a limited amount of air can flow . When transitioning to supersonic speeds , the channel ... could essentially " choke , " creating incredible drag . While the design could work beautifully at supersonic speeds , it ca n't overcome the drag to reach those speeds . Research is being carried out to overcome this issue - One method proposed is to <URL> - so that they are efficient at all speeds . Another group is working to optimize the shape of the airfoils in Busemann 's Biplane so that the shock-wave is reduced at all stages of supersonic flight . However , all these studies are in conceptual stage and no experiments have been carried out so far . NASA carried out the <URL> ( SSBD ) , in which the fuselage of a Northrop -5 E was modified ( kind of like pelican 's beak ) so as to change the pattern of shock waves formed in supersonic flight . <URL> " <URL> " by NASA/Carla Thomas - <URL> . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . NASA reported that the modifications were able to reduce the intensity of the shock wave by a considerable amount , as shown in the image below ( the ' flat ' pressure line is from the SSB demonstrator ) . <URL> Image from Quieting the Boom - The Shaped Sonic Boom demonstrator and the Quest for Quiet Supersonic Flight by NASA Active research is still being carried out by various organizations in this field .
Plan for unexpected weather amid limited options for dealing with it . I 've flown a number of times between Newark ( EWR ) and Halifax NS ( YHZ ) , Moncton NB ( YQM ) , and St Johns , NL ( YYT ) . It can be quite foggy and windy and in the cold months braking action can become a factor . A lack of options can be problematic . When we flew EWR-YHZ we often chose EWR as an alternate and I 've turned around as late as talking to Halifax approach as braking action become NIL and we did n't have gas to wait it out . Going out to YYT we 'd only have enough gas to get to Gander ( YQX ) if we could n't get a good approach in at St Johns . I flew a capable jet under IFR with Cat II approach capabilities so your concerns will be slightly different down low and VFR . Although you are VFR , I 'd play by IFR rules as alternates and fuel is concerned . Plan enroute alternates and carry enough gas to get to your destination and get to your second choice with some gas to spare . The weather can turn quickly and the fog in any of the maritime airports can be thick enough to turn even IFR GA planes away . Have a plan to be able to get on the ground somewhere else . Also consider how fatigue will play into your decision making once you are out there .
Twin enigned aircrafts without counter-rotating propellers A great many twins do n't have counter-rotating props : One such aircraft is the BeechCraft Baron 58 , as seen in <URL> . Another aircraft I can think of is the King Air 350 . It is not any more or less common to have one or the other . Contra-rotating propellers Another interesting solution to the P-factor ( prop pulling towards one direction ) , especially on single engine aircraft is contra-rotating props , two propellers on the same shaft that spin in opposite directions . This is mainly for single engine racer aircraft , but there are multi-engine aircraft known to have it , such as the Soviet Tu-95 Bear bomber . The pic shown here is a Spitfire Mk . XIV : A better explanation of the P-factor P-factor is the term for asymmetric propeller loading , that causes the airplane to yaw to the left when at high angles of attack . Assuming a clockwise rotating propeller it is caused by the descending right side of the propeller ( as seen from the rear ) having a higher angle of attack relative to the oncoming air , and thus generating a higher air flow and thrust than the ascending blade on the left side , which at the other hand will generate less airflow and thrust . This will move the propellers aerodynamic centre to the right of the planes centreline , thus inducing an increasing yaw moment to the left with increasing angle of attack or increasing power . With increasing airspeed and decreasing angle of attack less right rudder will be required to maintain coordinated flight .
end question
start question
What are the definitions of elevator angle of attack and critical angle of attack ?
Angle of Attack is the angle between the chord line of the airfoil and the relative wind . The elevator is also a " wing " in the effect that it is an airfoil . 1 ) Then what is the angle between the chord line of the elevator and relative wind ? Because if I am not wrong , by pitching the elevator up , the wing of an aircraft is subjected to the ' angle of attack ' . It 's also called " Angle Of Attack " . Pitching the elevator up also changes the angle of attack of the elevator . There are such conditions as elevator stall , although much less common than wing stall . 2 ) When you say angle of attack exceed critical angle of attack , is it because the elevator is pitched up thus creating wider angle between the chord line and the relative direction of the wind ? The " Critical AoA " is the angle at which the airfoil is generating the most lift . [ <URL> ] : The critical angle of attack is the angle of attack which produces maximum lift coefficient . This is also called the " stall angle of attack " . Below the critical angle of attack , as the angle of attack increases , the coefficient of lift ( Cl ) increases . At the same time , above the critical angle of attack , as angle of attack increases , the air begins to flow less smoothly over the upper surface of the airfoil and begins to separate from the upper surface Usually when you exceed the critical AoA , the air on the upper surface of the airfoil de-laminates and becomes turbulent . This results in a loss of lift ( stall ) . <URL> <URL> 3 ) In the Air France 447 accident , the PF kept saying , keeps the wings level . What does it mean ? How can the wings be leveled when the angle of attack is so high ? Does keeping the wings level means reducing the angle of attack to zero ? I 'm not sure what context you are talking about . I 've read the transcripts pretty carefully and I do n't recall the PF saying to keep the wings level . The Captain said to descend , while the PF was trying to climb . The SIC was pushing the stick forward while the PF was pulling back , causing the wings to remain level ( or at a slight climb ) . Keeping the wings level ( avoiding an un-coordinated turn ) in a stall condition is the best way to avoid putting the aircraft into a spin . This is possibly what they meant , although they did n't know that they were in a stall ( or if they did , they were not reacting to it appropriately ) . Yes , leveling the wings would be making the AoA at zero ( zero meaning where the airfoil is developing lift , and depending on the bank angle ) , but only if there were positive airspeed to make the relative wind parallel with the chord . In the case of AF447 , the aircraft was falling out of the sky at a spectacular 15,000 FPM , which means that the relative wind to the airfoil was basically perpendicular . They did n't have the forward airspeed to change the AoA , so they should have lowered the nose to gain airspeed and decrease the AoA . The important thing to remember is that the pitch angle of the aircraft is not the same as the AoA . You can take an aircraft at zero forward speed and drop it straight down , the pitch angle will be zero but the AoA will be perpendicular .
I want to measure a commercial speed for Concorde flights . The answer was given by Andy in his comments providing links to websites that recorded past timetables for Concorde : <URL> and <URL> Timetable schedule must take into account time difference between cities so that a British Airways Concorde flight JFK 12h15 to LHR 21h00 with -5 hours difference will give a 3h45 of commercial flight duration . Surprisingly , to me at least , trade winds did not seem to play a significant role in this measurement because timetable on the reverse route exhibit similar duration . Air France flights follow the same rationale . The measurement indicate a general figure of 3h45 for transatlantic Concorde flights . Next step is determining the kilometre distance . As I want a geographical time-distance I care only about <URL> and do not care about the exact path followed by the flight which would tell about aircraft/pilot/airline performance . I used the <URL> website . My only issue is measuring the performance ( speed ) of the transport system in getting from point A to point B . So I finally have my figure : 5 850 km / 3h45 = 1 560 km/h was the commercial speed of Concorde ( or 969 mph in non international units ) .
What you say is true only for turbojets . Generally , all optimum points for propeller-driven aircraft are at lower speeds than those of jet aircraft . The reason is the variation of thrust with speed : For propellers , thrust is inverse to speed , while it is roughly constant over speed for turbojet aircraft in the subsonic speed range . Specifically , the optimum angle of climb condition can be expressed as $ $ \ frac { \ delta \ gamma } { \ delta c_L } = 0 $ $ If we assume a quadratic polar and an expression for thrust which lets us model an exponential variation of thrust over speed ( $ T = T_0 · v ^ { n_v } $ ) , we can write this condition as $ $ \ frac { \ delta \ gamma } { \ delta c_L } = - \ frac { n_v } { 2 } · c_L ^ { - \ frac { n_v } { 2 } -1 } · \ frac { T_0 · ( m · g ) ^ { \ frac { n_v } { 2 } -1 } } { \ left ( \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } · S _ { ref } \ right ) ^ { \ frac { n_v } { 2 } } } + \ frac { c _ { D0 } } { c_L ^ 2 } - \ frac { 1 } { \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } $ $ The general solution is $ $ c _ { L _ { { \ gamma _ { max } } } } = - \ frac { n_v } { 4 } · \ frac { T · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } { m · g } + \ sqrt { \ frac { n_v ^ 2 } { 16 } · \ left ( \ frac { T · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } { m · g } \ right ) ^ 2 + c _ { D0 } · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } $ $ For jets ( $ n_v = 0 $ ) the solution is quite simple , because the thrust terms are proportional to the thrust coefficient $ n_v $ and disappear : $ $ c _ { L _ { { \ gamma _ { max } } } } = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } $ $ For turbofan and propeller aircraft , we have less luck and get a much longer formula . This is the one for propellers ( $ n_v = -1 $ ) : $ $ c _ { L _ { { \ gamma _ { max } } } } = \ frac { T · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } { 4 · m · g } + \ sqrt { \ left ( \ frac { T · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } { 4 · m · g } \ right ) ^ 2 + c _ { D0 } · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } $ $ To arrive from here at a flight speed , I recommend to look up the speed in a polar . Solving this analytically will get messy . Below I have plotted a generic climb speed over air speed chart for different thrust loadings of a typical turbofan . The blue lines show thrust ( right Y-axis ) and the green lines the resulting climb speed . The two black lines show how the optimum flight speed for best climb speed and best climb angle ( steepest climb ) vary over thrust loadings . They are easy to find graphically : Pick the tops of the green curves for best climb and the steepest tangent from the origin of the coordinate system to the green lines for best climb angle . Note that they cross when moving from positive to negative climb speeds . With a propeller , the results will look similar , however , the best climb speed line would be vertical . This will collect all optima at the low speed range of the plot - using a turbofan makes the effects easier to see because the optima are spread out more . <URL> Climb optima for different thrust loadings ( own work ) The optimum climb speed ( which is proportional to $ \ frac { 1 } { c_L ^ 2 } $ ) varies inversely with the square of the thrust loading ( $ \ frac { T _ { ref } } { m · g } $ ) ² of the aircraft . With lots of excess thrust , the optimum is limited by the stall speed ( the black line bends into a vertical trend ) , while with no excess thrust both optimum speeds $ v_x $ and $ v_y $ converge . This makes sense : If thrust is just sufficient to keep the airplane from descending at one speed , this speed will both give the best flight path angle and the best vertical speed ( unfortunately , both will be 0 at this point ) . It also helps to reduce induced drag , so aircraft with a high aspect ratio wing will climb steepest at a higher lift coefficient ( = lower speed ) . The steepest climb optimum looks a little more compact if we use the induced drag coefficient directly : $ $ c _ { L _ { \ gamma _ { max } } } = \ frac { 2 · m · g · ( c _ { D0 } - c _ { Di } ) } { T } $ $ but since the lift coefficient is hidden again in the induced drag term , and so sits on both sides of the equation , it is much harder to draw conclusions from this version . Nomenclature : $ c_L \ :\ :\ : $ lift coefficient $ n_v \ :\ :\ : $ thrust exponent , as in $ T \ sim v ^ { n_v } $ $ T \ :\ :\ :\ : $ thrust $ m \ :\ :\ :\ : $ mass $ g \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ gravitational acceleration $ \ pi \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ 3.14159 $ \ dots $ $ AR \ :\ : $ aspect ratio of the wing $ \ epsilon \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ the wing 's Oswald factor $ c _ { D0 } \ : $ zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { Di } \ :\ : $ induced drag coefficient
General Each person leaving the country must be authorized to return to the US . ( ie . they are a US citizen or their visa allows them to leave and return to the US . ) Ensure that you have all required paperwork Pilot license Medical Aircraft Registration The aircraft must have a current <URL> . Ensure that the aircraft is properly equipped 12 " Registration Numbers Transponder Before Leaving the US File eAPIS <URL> is required to be filed at least 60 minutes prior to your departure . Other third party services ( ie . <URL> , etc. ) may make this easier if you do it a lot . File an international flight plan May be an instrument or a defence VFR flight plan Before Returning to the US File eAPIS ( see above ) File a flight plan ( see above ) Notify customs and obtain permission at least one hour prior to landing in the US . Record the initials of the customs officer that you spoke to just in case they misplace your notification . Note that if you are coming from locations " south of the US " ( for the specific definition , see <URL> ) , you must stop at the <URL> closest to your point of border crossing to clear customs ( unless you have an overflight permit ) . Upon Arrival in the US You must land at an <URL> . Report immediately to the designated customs location Do not allow anybody or anything to leave/enter the aircraft until the customs official gives your permission The only exception that I know of to this are the South Florida airports where you are expected to take all people and belongings into the customs facility for inspection . Discard any international garbage in the approved manner . Provide required paperwork A <URL> for each arriving family Wait for customs to specifically tell you that you are cleared before you attempt to leave . Notes This is not all-encompassing , please help add to and expand this list so that others may learn from our experience ! A TON of useful information is made available by the FAA in the <URL> .
Ram Air Turbines have variable pitch which is set according to demanded load and airspeed , and the controller keeps the rotational speed as high as possible for maximum efficiency . Typical operational RPM of a RAT is between 5500 and 7700 rpm , at speeds between 125 - 375 knots . Let 's take the averages : 6600 RPM @ 250 knots = 700 rad/s @ 130 m/s . At a disk diameter of 1 m and a spinner diameter of 20 cm , lets look at velocity triangles at the blade root , centre and tip : Blade root : R = 0.1 m , rotational speed $ V _ { rot } $ = 0.1 * 700 = 70 m/s . With incoming air at 130 m/s , this creates a local velocity pitch angle of arctan ( 130/70 ) = 62 deg Blade centre : R = 0.3 , $ V _ { rot } $ = 0.3 * 700 = 210 m/s , velocity pitch angle = arctan ( 130/210 ) = 32 deg . Blade tip : R = 0.5 , $ V _ { rot } $ = 0.5 * 700 = 350 m/s , velocity pitch angle = arctan ( 130/350 ) = 20 deg . Note that these are unloaded velocity triangles , the blades can only generate power with air coming in at a local angle of attack . We 're rough estimating , so you could take a pitch of 25 deg at tip , 35 at centre , and linearly twist onto 45 deg at root ( most of the power is generated at the outer part of the blade ) .
You 're absolutely correct , camber equals curvature . The camber of the horizontail tail is changed by deflecting the elevator , not the camber of the elevator itself . And yes the local angle of attack changes when the elevator deflects , resulting in an aerodynamic moment .
Yes ! You can charter large aircraft like the 747 . A lot of airlines offer this service for large groups ( sports teams come to mind ) , and there are also operators of the Boeing Business Jet that were created just for private and charter uses . The TSA requires aircraft like this to adopt a security program called the Twelve-Five Standard Security Program ( or TFSSP for short ) . <URL> contains the regulations which cover this . Most of the security program falls under non-disclosure rules that prevent anyone with knowledge of the program from talking about it to people that do n't have an operational need to know ( and have also signed a non-disclosure ) . This helps to prevent people that would try to bypass the security measures in place from even knowing what to look for . The regulations do specify the following though : Each operator of an aircraft that weighs more than 12,500 lbs . that is used for scheduled or charter operations must adopt the program . The program must be approved by the TSA . The program must contain the procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used regarding : the acceptance and screening of individuals and their accessible property , including , if applicable , the carriage weapons as part of State-required emergency equipment , the acceptance and screening of checked baggage , the acceptance and screening of cargo , the screening of individuals and property , the use of metal detection devices , regarding the use of x-ray systems , the use of explosives detection systems , the responsibilities of security coordinators , the requirements for law enforcement personnel , carriage of accessible weapons , carriage of prisoners under the control of armed law enforcement officers , transportation of Federal Air Marshals , aircraft and facilities control function , the specific locations where the air carrier has entered into an exclusive area agreement , fingerprint-based criminal history records checks , personnel identification systems , training , an aviation security contingency plan , bomb and air piracy threats , flight deck privileges , and the Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan ( AOIP ) . As you can see , there is quite a bit that goes into the TFSSP . Two of the biggest things though are the requirement for all flight crew members to undergo a fingerprint based criminal background check and that access to the flight deck must be restricted . For more details , refer to the actual regulations which cover this in more depth . <URL> also has a page about the TFSSP .
You are right , the horizontal tail of a conventional airplane appears to have a higher incidence , but the actual angle of attack is smaller than that of the wing . The wing , flying ahead of the tail , produces downwash , so the flow at the tail location has a distinct downward component . The downwash angle can be calculated from the lift coefficient and the geometry of the aircraft : To simplify things , let 's assume the wing is just acting on the air with the density $ \ rho $ flowing with the speed $ v $ through a circle with a diameter equal to the span $ b $ of the wing . If we just look at this stream tube , the mass flow is $ $ \ frac { dm } { dt } = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v $ $ Lift $ L$ is then the impulse change which is caused by the wing and equal to weight . With the downward air speed $ v_z $ imparted by the wing , lift is : $ $ L = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v \ cdot v_z = S \ cdot c_L \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot \ rho $ $ $ S$ is the wing area and $ c_L $ the overall lift coefficient . If we now solve for the vertical air speed , we get $ $ v_z = \ frac { S \ cdot c_L \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot \ rho } { \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v } = \ frac { 2 \ cdot c_L \ cdot v } { \ pi \ cdot AR } $ $ with $ AR = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { S } $ the aspect ratio of the wing . Now we can divide the vertical speed by the air speed to calculate the angle by which the air has been deflected by the wing . Let 's call it $ \ alpha_w $ : $ $ \ alpha_w = arctan \ left ( \ frac { v_z } { v } \ right ) = arctan \ left ( \ frac { 2 \ cdot c_L } { \ pi \ cdot AR } \ right ) $ $ A typical airliner cruise lift coefficient is 0.4 , and a typical aspect ratio is around 8 : This results in a downwash angle of nearly 2 ° if the lift distribution over span is elliptical . In reality , it is more triangular-shaped , so the downwash angle is larger near the center of the aircraft . Note that the engine nacelles of the <URL> are tilted 3 ° up to align them with the local flow . The resulting angle of attack is lower by those 3 ° , and if the angle of attack difference between wing and tail is less than that , the tail surface will appear angled upward . To achieve static stability , the tail will have to fly at a slightly <URL> .
Helicopters are also subject to metal fatigue and there have been accidents attributed to it but the primary determination is component life times . All of the engine , transmission and rotor parts are lifed and most of the control mechanisms . Depending on the helicopter , there will be many more lifed components . Some helicopters also have fixed intervals between major overhauls by the manufacturer . For example , the R22 is effectively rebuilt to an " as new " standard by Robinson at 2,200 hours . Corrosion might also play a part . There may be a time when it is just not economical to continue to repair and service the airframe .
If you keep increasing your angle of attack , your drag will increase and combined with the increasing along trajectory component ( your path angle will increase ) of the weight vector will slow you down ( assuming your thrust does not exceed your weight + drag ) . Because you slow down , your lift will decrease . The lift will now be less than the across trajectory component of the weight vector and the flight path will become less steep . I do n't understand your second point . The critical angle of attack is where the maximum lift coefficient occurs . If you increase the angle of attack further , the wing will stall and the lift will decrease . This does not occur at Vx
Vortex ring state is characterized by rapid descent and reduced effectiveness of control inputs . At the onset , it is characterized by increased vibration and buffet of the airframe , with uncommanded changes in helicopter attitude . Also , any increase in the collective is ineffective and counterproductive . From <URL> : Incipient vortex ring conditions are typically : increased vibration and buffet , the onset of small amplitude ' twitches ' in pitch and evidence of longitudinal , lateral and directional instability . Established vortex ring conditions are characterised by : a very rapid increase in rate of descent towards and beyond 3000fpm , reduced effectiveness of cyclic inputs in roll or pitch the application of collective pitch failing to arrest the rate of descent and usually increasing it . From FAA Helicopter Flying Handbook - <URL> : A fully developed vortex ring state is characterized by an unstable condition in which the helicopter experiences uncommanded pitch and roll oscillations , has little or no collective authority , and achieves a descent rate that may approach 6,000 feet per minute ( fpm ) if allowed to develop . The best measure against vortex ring state is quite simple - go forward i.e. increase airspeed . Basically , you enter into forward flight so that the rate of descent does n't oppose the induced flow . You need ' undisturbed ' airflow over the rotor disc . Power is to be applied after gaining sufficient airspeed . From skybrary : Incipient Stage ... Keep the collective position unchanged and apply forward cyclic to achieve an accelerative ( nose down ) attitude so as to increase forward airspeed quickly . As soon as a steady increase in airspeed is indicated , and above 30 KIAS , more power can be applied if necessary without waiting until the best rate of climb speed is reached . If this action does not resolve the situation rapidly then it is best to treat the condition as established and take the actions below . Established Condition . Recovery can only be effected by changing the airflow around the rotor and will inevitably lead to significant loss of height , which makes recovery from a low level occurrence impossible . There are two theoretically possible actions : Moving the cyclic forward and lowering the collective . Combining these actions is likely to produce the quickest recovery with the least height loss . Application of forward cyclic should increase airspeed but a large input held for several seconds may be required before significant pitch attitude and consequent speed change is achieved , with a significant nose down attitude resulting . Lowering the collective to reduce power towards auto-rotation , so unstalling some of the inboard portion of the blades , may also be effective but forward airspeed must be gained before power is re-applied during recovery . Autorotation has also been suggested as a measure for overcoming the vortex ring state ( by the FAA handbook , for example ) , but it may lead to further loss of height , which has to be taken into account . Another issue is that there are some variations between the different helicopter types - in case of tilt-rotor aircraft like V-22 , the only way is to go into forward flight .
Yes , it 's true . Usually called approach or arrival briefing Details will vary according to aircraft and operator but a typical list is NATS : NOTAMs1 ATIS2 notes , chart briefing point by point , date , frequencies , courses , minimums and missed approach procedures . Terrain , minimum safety altitude , which route Special notes for arrival , taxiing , likely gate for arrival ? I noticed that you specifically asked about something going wrong . The following assumes a serviceable aircraft . According to operator , if the aircraft is not on a stabilised approach by 1,000 feet , a go around will be performed and the missed approach procedure ( MAP ) followed . The MAP is printed on the approach chart . The initial action is : to get the aircraft safely climbing away ( aviate ) to the altitude and heading defined in the MAP ( navigate ) then call ATC to let them know ( communicate ) . Aviate , navigate , communicate , always in that order . A stabilised approach might differ between operators but is essentially . The flight path is correct with only minor changes in pitch and heading needed to stay on it . No more than 20 kts above the approach reference speed briefed as above . Correctly configured for landing ( flaps , slats , gear , spoilers armed , autobrake set etc ) Checklists completed Rate of descent < = 1,000 fpm Power setting is appropriate There may be other special checks for some types of approaches which must have been briefed as above ) . The MAP might be something like : The MAP is unique for each approach so must be briefed in advance . 1 <URL> : Warn of recent changes , temporary restrictions , equipment malfunctions etc. . 2 <URL> : A continuous broadcast of airfield information such as weather , special precautions , runways in use etc. .
I never landed at Courchevel , but did some aerobatic training in <URL> in the Giant Mountains of Silesia . What I learned was : A proper approach looks steeper than normal because the field inclination is steeper relative to the plane 's attitude . You need to flare sooner for two reasons : The sink speed relative to the rising ground is higher than normal , and The amount of pitch change needed to flare is larger . Even with airplanes which have a strong ground effect ( and where too fast a touchdown speed will normally result in a very long float ) the flare was short , as was the rollout distance . Do n't let speed bleed off too early , but stay on your approach speed until you are low enough to flare . Airports with slope sit on the sides of mountains . In many cases , the approach is already over rising terrain . When landing with a headwind , the wind will create a downdraft along the approach so the sink speed during the approach will be higher than normal . For glider pilots this is the biggest danger - once you are too low , you will hit the ground short of the runway . Most inclined runways show a variation in inclination along their length . This means that the relative sink speed and the necessary pitch change for a successful flare will vary with the touchdown point . Stay alert , no landing is routine ! The landing configuration and approach speed were not different from that on regular airports with level runways . Different was mostly the height at which the flare is begun . Also , at first I needed getting used to staying on my approach speed until I was low enough to flare - you need more energy to keep the airplane flying until it is level with the ground ( i.e. climbing uphill ! ) , so the final approach and flare must be executed precisely for a good landing . When I saw the runway at Zar for the first time I thought the location is sheer madness . After a few landings I learned to appreciate the benefits : Very short roll-outs and planes would land uphill only , so they come to a stop where the ( downhill ) take-off run could begin . But the approaches need to be precise ( we did mixed motor and glider flying ) especially with gliders if you want to keep your fellow glider students happy .
I tested this out in the Seminole today . My ( extremely nonscientific ) results are as follows : Wings level , hold aileron to maintain roll and correct using rudder : 200 FPM Ball centred , ailerons flush and correct using rudder : 0 FPM 5 degrees bank angle , hold aileron to maintain roll and correct using rudder : 100 FPM 2.5 degrees bank angle , hold aileron to maintain roll and correct using rudder : 200-250 FPM At least under today 's conditions * , wings level was better than 5 degrees of bank , but approximately 3 degrees of bank was slightly better than both . Today 's conditions , for the interested : 6000 MSL -7 C Engine shut down and feathered About 1/4 -1 / 2 ball deflection on all except # 2 Probably about half tanks No idea what the altimeter setting was
Check out AIM 1-1-9 for localizer information . Basically , the localizer is positioned so to have a course width of 700 ' at the threshold . So full deflection to either side is 350 ' . A CDI has 5 dots on each side , so at the threshold each dot is 70 ' . Near the Middle Marker , one dot means you 're off course by 150 ft. Near the Outer Marker , a one-dot deviation puts you about 500 ft. from the centerline . GPS ( non-WAAS ) approaches have a constant full scale deflection of .3 NM after the final approach fix . AIM 1 − 1 − 17 5 ( e ) ( 5 ) When within 2 NM of the Final Approach Waypoint ( FAWP ) with the approach mode armed , the approach mode will switch to active , which results in RAIM and CDI changing to approach sensitivity . Beginning 2 NM prior to the FAWP , the full scale CDI sensitivity will smoothly change from ± 1 NM to ± 0.3 NM at the FAWP . As sensitivity changes from ± 1 NM to ± 0.3 NM approaching the FAWP , ... WAAS on the other hand is similar to the localizer . AIM 1-1-18 ( d ) 4 Both lateral and vertical scaling for the LNAV/VNAV and LPV approach procedures are different than the linear scaling of basic GPS . When the complete published procedure is flown , ± 1 NM linear scaling is provided until two ( 2 ) NM prior to the FAF , where the sensitivity increases to be similar to the angular scaling of an ILS . There are two differ - ences in the WAAS scaling and ILS : 1 ) on long final approach segments , the initial scaling will be ± 0.3 NM to achieve equivalent performance to GPS ( and better than ILS , which is less sensitive far from the runway ) ; 2 ) close to the runway threshold , the scaling changes to linear instead of continuing to become more sensitive . The width of the final approach course is tailored so that the total width is usually 700 feet at the runway threshold . Since the origin point of the lateral splay for the angular portion of the final is not fixed due to antenna placement like localizer , the splay angle can remain fixed , making a consistent width of final for aircraft being vectored onto the final approach course on different length runways . When the complete published procedure is not flown , and instead the aircraft needs to capture the extended final approach course similar to ILS , the vector to final ( VTF ) mode is used . Under VTF , the scaling is linear at ± 1 NM until the point where the ILS angular splay reaches a width of ± 1 NM regardless of the distance from the FAWP .
The T-tail positions the horizontal stabilizer out of the turbulent " prop wash " . This reduces the strength and weight that would be required of the structure if it had to endure the aerodynamic stress behind the two propellers ( which is terrific ) . This simple shape has everything to do with parts and assembly simplicity and low cost for the homebuilder . Drag increases exponentially with speed ; so for slow aircraft , draggy shaped components are much less a problem .
This is actually a really hard question to answer , as there are a ton of factors . I 'll try to cover a few . Visibility is probably the reason you most hear when it comes to GA pilots . High-wing aircraft offer better visibility below the aircraft , especially for passengers in 4-seat or larger aircraft , as the wing does n't block it . Low-wing aircraft can offer better visibility above the aircraft , as the wing remains mostly out of the field of view . Note that a lot of midair collisions involve mixed types ; low-wing aircraft descend into high-wing , or high-wing aircraft climb into low-wing . Landing characteristics are different , as low-wing aircraft can incur more ground effect than high-wing . Aerodynamic stability of the two designs differs a bit ; the center of lift can be higher in a high-wing design , often offset with dihedral in low-wing aircraft . Ground clearance ( and debris protection ) , specifically in multi-engine aircraft , is going to be greater when engines are mounted on a high wing rather than a low wing . This is true of both propeller and jet engines , although propellers tend to have a larger radius for a given aircraft size . There are a bunch more , but that ought to get the argument discussion going .
The aerodynamic coefficients $ c_l , c_d , c_m $ are in general functions of the angle of attack $ \ alpha $ , Reynolds $ Re $ and Mach number $ Ma $ . For your experiments , since you are operating in a very low $ Re $ regime , assuming incompressible flow , your lift , drag , moment curves will largely depend on viscous phenomena ( i.e. $ Re $ number ) . Generally , as $ Re $ number drops , the boundary layer thickens . For this reason , you will expect a lower $ c_l $ number ( due to viscous decambering ) and a higher $ c_d $ . You may also discover non-linear behaviors even on operating angles due to laminar separation bubble forming/bursting on the suction surface and this is very dependent on the turbulent intensity of your wind tunnel so the stall angles and post-stall behavior may not be the same for flight conditions where turbulent intensity is very low . Finally , you can confirm with Xfoil that for $ Re = 300k \ Rightarrow \ alpha _ { L = 0 } = -4.33 \ deg $ while for $ Re = 150k \ Rightarrow \ alpha _ { L = 0 } = -3.64 \ deg $ for the NACA4412 .
First it is beneficial to have an idea how the <URL> . With <URL> , the suction peak on the upper side is already well developed at smaller angles of attack , so the surrounding air will be accelerated towards that low pressure area . Now you need to extend that mental picture to 3D . The inner wing has those flaps deployed and , consequently , a suction peak near the leading edge and low pressure on the whole upper side . This will also suck in air from the side . As a consequence , the flow moving towards the outer wing will see a similar upward acceleration as does the flow streaming towards the inner wing , plus a sideways acceleration . This acceleration increases the local angle of attack at the leading edge of both wing sections . If the outer wing was already close to its stall angle of attack before the flaps were lowered , now the increased angle of attack will push the flow beyond the stall condition . The geometrical angle of attack ( measured as the angle between the flow direction at infinity and the reference length of the airfoil ) did not change . The " real " angle of attack as experienced by the outer wing , however , will produce a flow similar to what would normally only be experienced at a higher geometrical angle of attack . This moves the outer wing into the stall region when the inner wing still works in the linear realm . This can lead to asymmetric stalls which produce a strong and sudden rolling moment , and at low altitude that is the last thing you need while lining up with the runway . Adding <URL> will move the stall angle of attack up a few degrees , and now it will again be the inner wing which stalls first , as it should .
It depends on how you define " glass cockpit . " Technology has progressed in steps to the modern " glass cockpits " of the latest aircraft . Who developed the first glass cockpits ? The military appears to be the first place where electronic displays were used . First for specific uses like navigation or targeting scopes , and later gaining more functionality . Which planes first used these glass cockpits ? The <URL> was the first production aircraft with a HUD and entered service in 1963 . The North American <URL> was equipped with a multifunction display and entered service in 1970 . The commercial side of the industry took a bit longer to adopt the technology . The McDonnell Douglas <URL> had a glass primary flight display and navigation display , and entered service in <URL> . Boeing started work on glass cockpits in the <URL> while developing the the Supersonic Transport ( SST ) . While the SST never entered production , the work on glass cockpit technology was <URL> of the <URL> and <URL> , entering service in 1982 and 1983 , respectively . This was based on work with NASA , including <URL> beginning in 1973 . The Airbus <URL> entered service in 1983 , and also used <URL> . The <URL> , entering service in 1988 , was the first aircraft regarded as having a " full " glass cockpit , replacing traditional instruments for the primary flight instruments . How was the current layout developed , were other layouts in use beforehand ? The first displays were generally dedicated to specific functions . For commercial aircraft , there was a primary flight display ( PFD ) showing the pitch and roll of the aircraft . There was also a second display for navigation which displayed the aircraft 's heading . As RedGrittyBrick points out , adding the speed and altitude to the PFD was natural due to their typical position on either side of the PFD . The use of the vertical " tape " format allows the same visual sense of direction as a round dial while taking up less space in the display . Was there any resistance or difficulty in getting these systems adopted amongst pilots or their companies ? Although there was certainly a sense of caution with the introduction of new technology replacing the most important instruments in the cockpit , the benefits were enough to get the changes adopted . <URL> from 1989 , focusing on the " glass cockpit " in the 757 . It covers the effect on the pilots and their opinions of the new technology . The study shows that the pilots had an overall positive view of the new technology , since it reduced their workload and made tasks easier in many situations . However , the report also identified issues with crew members becoming " complacent " due to more automation , and some tasks actually became more difficult with the new systems . There is also the issue of training pilots on the complex new systems , and about what information should be hidden from pilots either during training or in operation of the aircraft . These types of discussions are certainly not going away , as is evidenced by recent events .
end question
start question
Do jet aircraft have an emergency propeller ?
I think you might have heard about the <URL> , which is deployed in case of some aircraft in case of loss of main electrical power supply . From <URL> : In case of total loss of all main generators , the RAT is automatically extended and drives the emergency generator via a hydraulic motor . The location of the ram air turbine varies with different aircraft and some of them ( like the popular A320 ) have them near the landing gear . The following image is from <URL> to another question . <URL> Location of Ram Air Turbines in different aircraft , image from <URL> Bombardier BD700-1A11 Global 5000 ( <URL> ) Airbus A320 Flight test ( <URL> ) Bombardier CRJ700 ( <URL> ) US Navy T-45A ( <URL> ) Airbus A330 ( <URL> ) Boeing B747-8 ( picture by Gregor Schläger , <URL> ) Boeing B777 , RAT extension switch ( <URL> )
There is a good writeup <URL> that explains the engine issues as well as the rest of the incident you mentioned . Core lock happens when parts inside the engine cool off at different rates , causing interference between them . In the case of the CF34 engines on these Bombardier jets : GE isolated the problem to contact between components of the high-pressure-turbine interstage seal - a static , pressurized honeycomb component - and the rotating seal teeth on the outer torque coupling . Working on getting a good illustration of what they are talking about . This does not mean that the engine is " not functional . " There is just much more resistance on the rotating components , but once the temperatures have time to equalize , the components will break free . According to the NTSB , FDR data indicate that the engine cores were beginning to break free just before the impact . During core lock , the resistance makes starting the engine more difficult . A windmill start does not provide very much turning force on the engine components , so the resistance from core lock makes that method of starting difficult . GE has done engine testing , and when the windmill restart fails , they are able to use bleed air from the other engine to restart the engine , which provides more turning force .
<URL> ( <URL> ) Arming button missing . According to your linked PDF , the system is coming soon . Looking at the most recent A350 cockpit photos on the internet , the arming button is missing in those photos , but of course it can be added later to existing aircraft . Per the A350 pilot briefing , the button will be left of the speed-brake lever -- <URL> A350 briefing . <URL> From the PDF in the question , highlighting the same button . <URL> says -- Such systems are under development by major manufacturers and are currently in use in some aircraft types . One such example I can confirm to have it is the Falcon 7X , they call it <URL> ( ADM ) . In case of a depressurization at high altitudes , the Autopilot and Auto throttle will guide the aircraft to safe altitude at maximum velocity . ADM is activated when Autopilot is engaged , the aircraft is above 30,000 ft. , and the cabin altitude is 9,700 ft. or greater . We just need to keep checking the latest A350 cockpit photos or wait until further information is released , I hope that helps .
If an aircraft encounters a serious problem quite soon after departure that forces it to land immediately , the aircraft may be above its certified maximum landing weight . This is because there is still a lot of fuel in the tanks , which adds a lot of weight . As @RonBeyer mentioned in a comment , landing overweight can have a number of serious consequences . When landing a heavy aircraft , stopping it on the runway already requires a lot of energy ( or rather , a lot of energy needs to be converted into something else ) . If the aircraft is heavier than it is designed to be on landing , this may cause excessive stress on the brakes . In extreme cases , this can make the brakes catch fire . Now , open flames under an aircraft that is almost fully loaded with fuel is the recipe for disaster . In some cases , even though the crew brakes hard on landing , the aircraft may be so heavy that stopping on the runway is impossible . A runway excursion will then follow ( a situation where the aircraft leaves the runway onto the grass or similar ) . This is not neccesarily dangerous , but it certainly can be , depending on the surrounding terrain : <URL> ( image from <URL> . This aircraft was not overweight , but I still think the situation shown in the picture is relevant to this question . ) Obviously , in an emergency ATC , and in turn the fire and rescue crew at the airport , need to be prepared for such events . If ATC expects an aircraft will be landing overweight , getting the crew to confirm this will allow ATC to inform the fire crew that they can expect brake fires or a potential runway excursion . It can also enable the rescue leader to position the fire vehicles at the best possible position , which would be further down the runway than normal , since the landing roll will be longer . So basically , it 's a way to get information to the rescue crew so that they can prepare for what might be coming . Depending on the type of emergency , ATC will also ask the crew about other details , in some cases also with the purpose of passing this information on to the rescue crew , since the rescue crew will normally not be in direct contact with the cockpit as long as the plane is in the air . See also this related question : <URL>
How are aircraft aligned with these bridges They are not ( but read on ) Aircraft are aligned to a point on the concrete , not to the jetbridge ( s ) . It is the jetbridge itself that carries out the final alignment to the aircraft door . Jetbridges are actually motor vehicles with wheels , tyres , motors and ( often ) steering . It just happens that their rear end is tethered and their bodies articulate and/or telescope to accomodate the motion at the " front " end . . You <URL> using a set of controls at the end furthest from the terminal building <URL> <URL> I believe some also have what is effectively variable height suspension like old Citroens ( except I imagine it is hydraulic or jack-screw ) . The aircraft is driven to the terminal so the nose wheel follows a guide line and stops at a marking appropriate for the aircraft type . Then the jet bridge is <URL> up to the aircraft door . As the aircraft is gradually burdened with self-loading freight and sinks on it 's suspension , the jetbridge metaphorically <URL> so that the SLF do n't trip up or fall into the aircraft . That is , the jetbridge maintains alignment , the aircraft is pretty passive in the job of alignment . I have to admit I did n't notice these jetbridge controls for many years as I was usually either busy rushing to my seat or busy rushing to the baggage reclaim . One time there was a delay at the aircraft door that was long enough for my bored gaze to alight on the controls and for the thought to briefly wander across my mind - " I wonder what would happen if I pressed that ... "
When it is slow , the two or three wheels should keep it from flipping over . Once it is fast enough to fly , the wing will provide what we engineers call roll damping : Any tendency to roll † will cause an opposing moment which will stop the motion quickly . The rest is done by a differential deflection of the ailerons , so the wing creates an equal and opposite rolling moment to that of the propeller . What is roll damping : Once the wing starts to roll , one side will go up while the other goes down . This will cause a change in local angle of attack and , consequently , local lift . The down-moving wing will see a higher angle of attack and a local lift increase , and the opposite happens on the other side . Total lift will remain unchanged , but now the change in the spanwise lift distribution will lift the down-moving wing back up and vice versa . The movement stops before it could pick up any speed . With powerful engines , engine torque is a real problem and needs to be canceled with a few tricks : Camber on the vertical tail : The vertical tail will create a side force and rolling moment which depends on the speed of the air flowing over the vertical . This helps to make the correction depend on the power setting of the engine . Just make sure that the vertical is in the slipstream of the propeller . With <URL> propellers you can cancel the rolling moment of each propeller with that of the other . This needs a more complex gearbox , however . In operation , apply power changes only slowly . With its narrow undercarriage , the <URL> would become uncontrollable if the pilot went from idle to full power on the ground too quickly . Watch the <URL> : In <URL> , the aircraft <URL> once the tail is lifted during the ground run or the pitch attitude is changed in flight . Also , yawing ( rotation around the vertical axis ) will create a pitch moment ( which acts around the spanwise axis ) . † Roll : Movement around the longitudinal axis .
I would say yes you can as per the FAR as I read them the limitations on a PPL are § 61.113 ( a ) Except as provided in paragraphs ( b ) through ( h ) of this section , no person who holds a private pilot certificate may act as pilot in command of an aircraft that is carrying passengers or property for compensation or hire ; nor may that person , for compensation or hire , act as pilot in command of an aircraft So you cant act as Pilot In Command for hire or if there are passengers on board ( which in this case I assume there are not ) however if we look at the FAR for the official definition of " Pilot In Command " we will find Pilot in command means the person who : ( 1 ) Has final authority and responsibility for the operation and safety of the flight ; ( 2 ) Has been designated as pilot in command before or during the flight ; and ( 3 ) Holds the appropriate category , class , and type rating , if appropriate , for the conduct of the flight . The question is does taxing count as a " Flight " . I would think it does not and moving the aircraft around is part of maintenance ( thats how they log the hours on the trainer planes I rent ) . The FAR definitions section ( § 1.1 ) does not seem to contain one for " flight " so that may be open to interpretation . But as I read it you can taxi the aircraft for compensation as its not a " Flight " and thus you are not the Pilot In Command which is when the PPL rules would come into play in my opinion . However section § 65.81 states However , he may not supervise the maintenance , preventive maintenance , or alteration of , or approve and return to service , any aircraft or appliance , or part thereof , for which he is rated unless he has satisfactorily performed the work concerned at an earlier date . The key line ( Bolded ) is return to service . If Taxing counts as returned to service then ( unless rated to do so ) you may not be able to for this reason ( nothing to do with compensation ) . Note : I am not a lawyer nor an aircraft mechanic and can not guarantee that my assumptions are correct . The opinions stated above should not be used as official legal advice and there may be more information in the FAR that I have not come across . This was compiled after some quick reading and searching in the assumed correct places . Note 2 : I would assume that in a commercial setting ( and really any setting ) there are some insurance implications to this kind of operation ( especially with large aircraft ) . This may almost be a bigger concern than the legality of it ( although both are important ) . You would not want to get into the situation where you may be legally allowed to drive the plane on the tarmac but are not covered by the company 's insurance . Should you get into an accident you or your shop may become liable for the damages .
The direction of rotation of the propeller introduces an asymmetry which designers try to mitigate by adding more asymmetries . Specifically , a right-turning tractor propeller ( clockwise from the pilot 's viewpoint ) will swirl the propeller wake in the same direction which adds a negative sideslip angle on the vertical tail ( which sticks up into the upper half of the wake only ) . By pointing the axis of rotation of the propeller slightly to the right ( right sidethrust ) , this sideslip angle can be reduced . Other means of correction like an incidence on the vertical tail would not work equally well : Once the engine is throttled back , such an incidence would require to re-trim the aircraft . On multi-engined aircraft a sidethrust can help to reduce rudder input in engine-out cases . Here each wing engine points slightly away from the fuselage so its thrust will pull the aircraft into a helpful sideslip when the opposite engine has failed . The propeller axis can also point slightly down in order to move the thrust line closer to the center of gravity , reducing thrust-related trim changes , and to reduce the <URL> effect ( sideways <URL> ) at high angle of attack . This is called downthrust . One example would be the <URL> - engined version of the <URL> : When the new engine was installed , its lower thrust line required 2 ° more downthrust . This is one of the few topics where the English version of Wikipedia stays schtum ; only the German version has an article on it ( <URL> and <URL> ) .
For one , do n't only look at the engine , but at the whole propulsion system . This includes tanks , piping , controls , pumps and the actual engine . Now the rocket looks much less favorable , especially if you size the tanks for equal running times . The rocket does not need any of the parts which are ahead of the combustion chamber of a jet and also does not need the turbine . Also , being designed for full thrust only , it does not need an adjustable nozzle . Please look below at the engine installation of a typical airliner ( I tried but could not find a fitting cross section of a turbojet plus intake ) : <URL> Jet engine and nacelle cutaway drawing ( picture <URL> ) Only the part labeled " combustor " and the section aft of the turbine are actually comparable to a rocket engine - all else is needed to condition and compress air or drive the turbo machinery in front . A rocket enjoys the luxury of being fed propellant and oxidizer at just the right ratio , condition and at high pressure , and since the oxidizer is mostly pure liquid oxygen , the turbo pumps for compressing it can be much smaller than the turbo machinery of a jet which works with an 80 % nitrogen - 20 % oxygen mixture of gasses .
As Lnafziger says , a conventional landing is impossible for anything more than a tiny aircraft STOL aircraft ( Carrier ' runway ' length : 200m ) . As you state however , if it was an emergency , the aircraft carrier has a special net which it can fold up to stop planes , and since it can stop an F18 Hornet , it could probably take your Cessna as well :)
You must have heard wrong . Clipping wings is done to reach higher maximum speed . You mention light sport aircraft , so I assume they have propellers driven by piston engines . This means their power output is constant over speed and the thrust is inverse with speed . To calculate their <URL> , you can use the venerable <URL> which shows that the aircraft has to fly at its optimum L/D for maximum range . At this speed , induced drag equals zero-lift drag , and span helps to cut down the former . Clipping the wing will shift the optimum cruise speed up , not down . With clipped wings the aircraft has less surface area , which will reduce zero-lift drag . This is the drag component which determines maximum speed . Induced drag will go up , but it is insignificant at maximum speed , so the aircraft will be able to fly slightly faster .
The landing on carrier is indeed hard . The reason is not the deceleration ( which is handled by the hook ) , but the touch-down . Since the deck is short , the wires ca n't be spaced very far apart , so the aircraft must touch down very precisely . Since the precision is better at steeper angle , the aircraft landing on carrier do not flare . At all . So they hit the deck at more than twice the vertical speed compared to typical landing on decent runway .
I do n't think there is any regulation on max flying hours , just regulations on <URL> . The <URL> is the most frequent check , and according to Wikipedia : This is performed approximately every 125 flight hours or 200 -- 400 cycles . It needs about 20 -- 50 man-hours and is usually performed overnight at an airport gate or hangar . The actual occurrence of this check varies by aircraft type , the cycle count ( takeoff and landing is considered an aircraft " cycle " ) , or the number of hours flown since the last check . The occurrence can be delayed by the airline if certain predetermined conditions are met . The other checks include : B check - every 4 -- 6 months , requiring about 150 man-hours and is usually performed within 1 -- 3 days at an airport hangar C check - every 20 -- 24 months , requiring about 6000 man-hours , taking 1 to 2 weeks to complete D check - major maintenance check , occuring about every 6 years , requiring 50,000 man hours , generally spanning a couple months . Note that all of these times are approximate , depending on the exact maintenance plan filed by the airline and the aircraft type . Also cycle count may be factored into the maintenance intervals in addition to flight hours so aircraft that do many short-haul flights may have more frequent maintenance . So in any case , only looking at the A checks , if you can land , refuel , service , and get back in the air in 2 hours between 10 hour flights , the plane could stay in the air for 20 hours/day . Every 6 days , it will need some downtime for the A checks , let 's say the airline puts enough people on it to get the check done in 5 hours . So that 's 125 hours per cycle : 120 hours flying , 5 hours in maintenance . They can fit 4.83 of these cycles in a 30 day month so the aircraft could be flying up to 580 hours in any given month ( but that last A check gets deferred to the next month , so that means less time in the air that month . With longer flights ( which reduces the overhead from turnaround times ) and tighter turnaround times , the flight hours per month could be higher . If you really want the maximum for a month , then if you assume 125 hours per maintenance inverval and that the plane is kept in the air as long as possible with 0 turnaround time , that 's around 690 flying hours out of 720 total hours in a month . Of course , this makes a big assumption that the A check interval really is 120 hours , and that the time to do the maintenance is 5 hours , in the real world both numbers will vary based on aircraft , airline , and maintenance staffing levels . Plus , over the longer term , you need to factor the other , less frequent but also more time consuming maintenance checks ( B through D checks ) , as well as allow downtime for unexpected repairs .
A <URL> measures the time spent in a general aviation aircraft with the power on . Planes differ in that time is easier to record than distance . For a given airspeed , the distance covered by the aircraft depends on the wind , altitude , and other factors . Modern airliners would record the period each engine has run , flight time , cycles ( one cycle is one pressurization/depressurization cycle ) , etc. , <URL> . Those records are then used to track the <URL> ( TBO ) . Same as with cars . For small planes , a <URL> is used to record the revolutions the engine has made , this one is used for TBO . <URL> ( <URL> ) Image of tach timer .
Simple answer ... No . You could rule out the types of planes that could land at an airport by an <URL> but there is nothing specific .
There is a descent requirement , but it 's perhaps not in the way you imagine as it has to do with oxygen supply . <URL> subpart K states : ( b ) Crewmembers . When operating at flight altitudes above 10,000 feet , the certificate holder shall supply enough oxygen to comply with § 121.329 , but not less than a two-hour supply for each flight crewmember on flight deck duty . The required two hours supply is that quantity of oxygen necessary for a constant rate of descent from the airplane 's maximum certificated operating altitude to 10,000 feet in ten minutes and followed by 110 minutes at 10,000 feet . The oxygen required in the event of cabin pressurization failure by § 121.337 may be included in determining the supply required for flight crewmembers on flight deck duty . This specifies that a turbine aircraft must be able to descend from it 's maximum certificated altitude to 10,000 ft in 10 minutes or less . This means the maximum descent speed is variable to maximum certificated altitude , so if an aircraft 's ceiling is 42000ft it must be able to descend at least 3200fpm , it it 's 25000ft then 1500fpm . As for how that 's done I do n't think the regulations say , it 's up to the manufacturers to develop aircraft that can meet the requirement .
This is related to an answer I gave <URL> about why aircraft typically do not have mirrors and external cameras . Short answer : yes aircraft do have sensors to detect damage , but not the kind of damage you 're talking about . Long answer : to design or decide what sensors to put on the aircraft and where , we have to get started with failure modes . There are at least a million way for components to fail , however , some failure are more likely to occur than others . Do we have sensors which detect failures / abnormal situations ? We do ! We have sensors for control surfaces , hydraulics , gears , tire pressure , cabin pressure , engine temperature , oil pressure etc. . Here is an image of one of the cockpit screens on a Boeing : <URL> ( <URL> ) OK , so why not more sensors ? Because sensors can fail . Now that would be a nightmare to troubleshoot : the sensor says the right outer landing light is not illuminated . Is that true ? Let me exit the aircraft and take a look ... . It turns out that : Many failure modes are " internal " , e.g. a valve malfunctioning . They are invisible on the exterior of an aircraft . Aircraft rarely collide with any other objects . Relying on visual indication is actually a good thing , because it is reliable and it 's free . Building an array of sensors covering each skin on the aircraft would be extremely complex , the construction cost would be high and the system would be heavy . Sensors are just another component of the system . The more sensors , the more likely something will fail . At some point one has to trust the underlying component to function without relying on system indications . Perhaps this is the kind of system you have in mind : <URL> ( Screenshot of " Stealth " ( 2005 ) , 01:01:11 ) Nah , that 's just Hollywood artistic license .
You would not attempt this . Aircraft are certified to climb with engines inoperative after V1 , they would just climb to a holding altitude and run the checklist . They would rather not attempt to any cruise altitude . Running the checklist you would determine if you are above the maximum landing weight ( MLW ) and decide to burn or if able , to dump fuel . Dumping fuel during the takeoff/rotation phase is not advisable to be honest , as you would leave a contaminated runway behind . Sure , most of the fuel will evaporate , but there will be a contamination nonetheless . I will quote <URL> 's comment shamelessly for another item to consider : According to <URL> a 747 can dump 6000 pounds of fuel per minute . Given that ( from what I found ) it typically carries at least 200,000 pounds , and has an MTOW of over 800,000 pounds , it seems unlikely you 'd dump enough fuel fast enough to make any difference .
<URL> has a list of the various transponder codes and what they are used for , which will give you an idea of what the problem is . Unless there is an actual aircraft incident or accident which requires the FAA to investigate though , you wo n't be able to find a record of it . In fact , pilots are n't even required to file a report unless requested , and those do n't go into a public database . For actual incidents or accidents , you can look at the NTSB <URL> . For pilot reports to the NASA ASRS self-reporting safety system , you can <URL> . If the pilot filed a report then you will see it show up there . Commonly used emergency codes are : 7500 - Hijack Code 7600 - Loss of Radio Communications Code 7700 - Emergency Code Also , some countries use the code 7000 for VFR traffic ( which is not an emergency code ) , but the US uses 1200 instead .
I think most people would say the answer is no . Consider the <URL> as it relates to Aeronautics : 9 . Aeronautics . a. one of a pair of airfoils attached transversely to the fuselage of an aircraft and providing lift . b. both airfoils , taken collectively . The wings are the big airfoils which are responsible for generating most of the vertical lift . A colloquial test of this definition would be to grab a CFI and ask him/her to " point out the wings on this airplane to me . " They wo n't point out the propeller . ( Not a scientific experiment ) However , both wings and propellers are airfoils ( and so are the other wing-like surfaces such as the vertical and horizontal stabilizers ) . You might get some disagreement about whether those other surfaces are wings , but I believe the answer is still no . There is nothing to be gained by calling them wings , and only leads to ambiguity . We already have a word which describes lifting surfaces in-general , and again , it 's airfoil .
end question
start question
Can airliners operate without an operating APU ?
Yes , you can operate without an APU . If the APU is inoperative you will need to write it up and coordinate with maintenance and dispatch to operate under the stipulations of the MEL . This may restrict certain kind of operations but if we assume a route completely over land this has no effect other than needed ground services . The requirements for no-APU is simply a <URL> cart at your departure airport . Ideally you want one at the destination as well but if not available you can possibly coordinate leaving an engine running during the turn . More generally though , if the destination does not have access to a huffer cart you will get an aircraft swap and the non-APU aircraft will be assigned to a route that does have those ground services available . The general process of a non-APU flight is keeping ground power and ground air conditioning hooked up to the airplane for pre-flight activity and boarding . Once the airplane is closed up the ground crew will coordinate with you to provide air via the ground start cart and you 'll start one or both of your engines . After you have an engine running , you 'll disconnect all of the ground equipment and push back . During the taxi , if you only started one engine earlier you 'll perform a crossbleed start to start the other engine . The takeoff engine bleed and pack configuration may be different for a non-APU takeoff but once you are airborne and set the bleeds and packs for post-takeoff you will be operating exactly the same way you would normally operate and the differences cease . On arrival the only differences are to make sure you keep an engine running at the gate until ground power is hooked up . The biggest downside to operating without an APU is the lack of decent air conditioning during taxi and ground operations . Other considerations for operating without an APU are airplane specific . For example , the EMB-145 has two generators per engine and one on the APU for a total of five generators . The airplane will revert to " essential " power if less than 3 generators are available which means you will lose certain displays and systems that become unpowered . This means if you had an engine failure during flight without an APU you will be in essential power and have to land in that condition because you can not start the APU to get back up to 3 generators operating .
<URL> ( aviationweather.gov ) Significant weather chart . Note the numbers in boxes . They decrease as the latitude increases : 450 → 400 → 350 → 250 . Note : those values change day to day and season to season , they 're not fixed . Those are the <URL> . 450 is FL450 , i.e. , 45,000 feet at a <URL> . This figure is very important in flight planning . Jets typically fly around this figure for optimal aircraft/engine performance . So yes , you 're right , the farther you fly from the equator , the lower you should fly . However , the following two statements are incorrect : I 'd expect that the air pressure at the top of the troposphere [ be the same regardless of latitude . ] The pressure gradient is still the same . See : <URL> As the altitude of an airliner increases , the angle of attack [ also increases . ] As the altitude increases , so does the speed , to counter the thinner air . Until you end up in a <URL> . Also , for high latitude polar flights , an airline can do away with the optimal performance , because the rise in temperature helps keep the fuel from freezing , however I may stand corrected on that .
Stall Recovery Similar to the vertical tail on your Cessna , a flying wing produces only little lift or even a downforce over the rear part of its wing . A swept flying wing uses washout for the same effect . In all cases , the idea is to produce relatively more lift increase with an angle of attack increase in the rear parts of the wing ( or the tail in conventional configurations ) so the aircraft stabilizes itself . This also means that the center of lift is ahead of the quarter chord point of the wing , and the same goes for the center of mass . At high angle of attack you need to create a pitch-up moment with the elevons in order to trim the high angle , and once the wing stalls , this pitch-up moment is reduced . As a consequence , the flying wing will pitch down and recover . Again , this is very similar to what happens on your Cessna , only that the function of the tail is performed by the rear part of the wing . Wing sweep helps a lot to pull the aircraft into the wind , and the yaw inertia of the big wing helps to keep rate changes down . Stalling in banking flight produces a very similar reaction as a straight and level stall while the airplane continues to turn . Of course , pulling too hard and preventing the wing from correcting the high angle of attack itself will risk to force the flying wing into a spin . Spin Recovery Flying wings have only a steep spin mode . Flat spins are not possible because the flying wing lacks the <URL> of conventional airplanes which creates a strong pitch-up moment in a spin . If the flying wing has no fuselage protruding in front , it also lacks the stabilizing nose vortices which are a contributing factor for flat spins . Spinning the <URL> was quite harrowing : The nose points almost straight down and the aircraft loses about 100 m in one turn . But ending the spin was simple : Just pitch down and stop the rolling motion by allowing the roll damping of the wing to kick in .
I 've gotten this question enough times to look up the regulations and answer my own question :) <URL> lays it out quite nicely . Particularly section B ( 3 ) : ( 3 ) Notwithstanding paragraph ( b ) ( 2 ) of this section , any aircraft which was not originally certificated with an engine-driven electrical system or which has not subsequently been certified with such a system installed , balloon or glider may conduct operations in the airspace within 30 nautical miles of an airport listed in appendix D , section 1 of this part provided such operations are conducted - ( i ) Outside any Class A , Class B , or Class C airspace area ; and ( ii ) Below the altitude of the ceiling of a Class B or Class C airspace area designated for an airport or 10,000 feet MSL , whichever is lower ; and Where I see the balloons is definitely outside of the Class B airspace and below 10,000 feet MSL , so the answer is , no , they do n't need a transponder .
The minimum altitude for autopilot engagement is generally the acceleration height or around 400 ' AGL though this can vary between operators . The question of when the autopilot is actually engaged is a more complicated question and is subject to pilot preference . Personally , I generally hand flew until the first level off or until climbing and accelerating through 10,000 MSL . Others may turn it on as soon as allowed and most fall somewhere in the spectrum between the two .
There are lots of problems . Sight is just generally important when flying . Even in airliners , most approaches are still flown manually and often visually . Any significant degradation of sight is going to be a problem when flying any type of airplane . Red/Green/White <URL> are used by air traffic control in the event of a radio failure . The inability to differentiate red from green in this case would be an enormous safety hazard ( e.g. did tower just clear me to land or tell me to keep circling ? ) <URL> / <URL> lights use colors to indicate whether you 're above , below , or on the proper glide slope for a runway . While it 's possible to land without them , it 's a significant reduction in safety . Lights at airports are color-coded to indicate whether a particular road is a runway or taxiway , how close you are to the end of the runway , that a runway is in use , etc. . Landing on a taxiway is usually a bad idea , so it 's best if you can tell the difference . The navigation lights on airplanes themselves are color-coded . The right wingtip has a green light , the left wingtip has a red light , and the back has a white light . This lets other pilots easily determine which way you 're going and , in case of conflict , who should yield ( seeing a red light on another aircraft means that they 're to your right and , therefore , you should yield to [ i.e. divert around ] them . ) Colors are used on aviation charts to indicate all kinds of things , including class of airspace , type of special-use airspace , whether a field is controlled or not , type of route , elevation of terrain , where you should expect to see city lights at night , etc. . You need to be able to distinguish these things quickly and accurately , even in low-light conditions . Some cockpit instruments use colors to indicate various things . These include color bands on airspeed indicators , color of annunciator lights or their on-screen equivalents ( i.e. red for warning , amber for caution , green for gear down , etc. , ) echo intensity on a weather radar display , etc. .
No . The fuel system would risk to clog up with gelled diesel fuel in the low temperatures at cruise altitude . If you had omitted " safely " in your question , the answer might be different . Before I repeat what others have written before , I refer you to <URL> . The essential part is : Why do n't we burn highway diesel or heating kerosene in a 747 ? In a word , purity . The additional controls imposed on Jet-A fuel by the associated standard produce a product with well-known properties . When you fuel a plane with Jet-A you can be confident that fuel wo n't freeze in the tanks at altitude ( at least not unless you cold-soak it below -40 degrees ) . You also know the fuel will be " clean " and wo n't gunk up fuel filters or leave deposits inside the combustion core of the engine that can cause problems later .
For the record , the asker changed the question after I answered , specifying that not declaring an emergency is a condition of the question , so I will address this at the top without modifying the original part : An attitude indicator is legally required for IFR flight . If equipment becomes inoperative during IFR , the pilot should inform ATC . I do not know that there is any specific legal text that addresses this particular situation you 're describing with an ILS approach coupled with an AI failure , but it would be generally accepted by pilots that losing an attitude indicator is an emergency as opposed to losing other required IFR equipment such as the clock . So , I 'm going to go with no , not without declaring an emergency . Original : In that situation depending on the circumstances , declaring a missed approach , an emergency informing ATC of the system failure , and requesting vectors to VMC conditions would be the best option . In an emergency , you can deviate from rules to meet the needs of the emergency at your discretion , so I do n't believe that technically you ca n't still shoot to minimums for the ILS , but it would be dangerous , especially if the pilot is n't highly proficient , and should be a last resort with no primary gyros . If an approach needed to be shot , and there was no VMC within range , a ' Precision Approach Radar ' approach would likely be the best option if one existed within range . This is can be a ' no-gyro ' approach upon request .
No . This would require a docile pitch behavior of the airframe up to approx . 110 ° angle of attack . The <URL> is based on a geometry that has been carefully optimized by <URL> to behave nicely over its full AoA range , a care that has not been spent by <URL> . The specifications did not call for it , because the idea was to create a low-cost lightweight fighter to complement the heavy F-15 . However , even the F-15 is AoA limited because less care was spent on its aerodynamic refinement . At higher angles of attack , both the F-16 and the F-15 show a nasty pitch-up which can not be controlled with the aerodynamic control surfaces - only thrust vectoring can manage this . Contrast this which the Su-27 , which shows balanced and slightly negative ( nose down ) pitch moments over the full AoA range , so the limited control authority coupled with the aircraft 's dynamics can make the Cobra maneuver possible .
<URL> ( <URL> ) That was the case on <URL> ( but not quite ) . It was luck the manual gravity-extension did n't lock the nose gear in position . That has been attributed to the shortening of the landing roll/slide . Two factors helped avert a potential disaster : the failure of the front landing gear to lock into position during the gravity drop , and the presence of a guardrail that had been installed along the centre of the decommissioned runway to facilitate its use as a racetrack . However , no commercial aircraft is certified for it , because it can do more harm than good . And depending on the aircraft type , separate controls for each landing gear in manual-extension mode may not exist . A hard landing without the nose-landing gear may rupture the fuselage , center fuel tank , or hydraulic lines . And with the added sparks from the sliding , that 's a recipe for disaster . Instead , a system such as the <URL> ( EMAS ) may help : <URL> ( <URL> ) EMAS .
Yes . What allows you as a pilot to fly large aircraft ( legally under the FAA ) is a <URL> . As long as the two Captains hold proper type ratings for the aircraft they suffice for the required two crew members needed to fly the plane . However one of the two of them will be performing the duties of the first officer and that should be decided prior to the flight . First Officer and Captain are rankings given by the airline not any governing body . Both the FO and Captain cary the type cert required to fly the aircraft ( as far as I know ) . The limited ( and quickly dwindling ) exception to this is aircraft that require a crew of 3 where the third is a flight engineer . The <URL> does hold its own certification .
There are a few different things going on here . For the best answer , see this <URL> . To summarize his points , there 's a combination of factors : The Bombardiers simply are n't certified at those temperatures . Their combination of small wings and small jet engines makes high temperatures particularly problematic for them . With the air density decreasing as the temperature rises the wings get less lift and the engines suck in less oxygen . The bigger jets have larger wings and bigger engines which make up for their larger weight so they can fly while the regional jets ca n't . So to answer your question ( " Is this solely due to the size of the aircraft , or is it a difference of manufacturer ? " ) : Yes
Design The key point is that these vehicles are not designed to perform such maneuvers . A coast-guard lifeboat is designed to self-recover from a capsize and can <URL> . A cruise-liner would not survive being rolled over completely . If a vehicle is not designed to perform a high stress maneuver it is safe to assume an unmodified vehicle can not do so without incurring severe damage . Inside loop Regarding an inside loop , the <URL> says Looping a 747 or a DC-10 would be trickier [ than rolling one ... ] Boeing suspects its planes could make it , but since no one has ever been silly enough to try , there 's no way of knowing for sure . Outside loop An outside loop is much much more stressful on airframe and pilots as it involves negative G. Airliners have flight envelopes that have much less capability under negative G . There must be a very high probability the aircraft would break up when attempting an outside loop . Roll A barrel roll is a less stressful maneuver . 60 years ago , in 1955 , <URL> , a Boeing test pilot performed a <URL> . So far as I can find out , no one has since deliberately attempted to replicate this stunt in a commercial airliner . At the time of publishing his autobiography , the pilot claimed in a <URL> that the stunt was planned by him but unknown to his boss . in 1985 <URL> , a 747 , inadvertently executed a half roll but suffered structural damage . It rolled to 60 degrees before the pilot disengaged the autopilot , the pilots suffered spatial disorientation and the roll continued into a dive . The pilots obviously were n't flying the aircraft within its limits - meaning you ca n't read a lot into this , other than it might be easy to break up the aircraft while attempting this sort of maneuver .
The main problem with most jet airliners is that the engines are placed close to the ground . If the field is not paved , this increases the risk of damage to the engines from ingesting FOD ( foreign object debris ) . There are , however , jets that can operate from un-paved fields . The 737-200 has an option called a " <URL> . " Despite having engines close to the ground , this kit helps to prevent the engine from sucking in FOD , which allows the aircraft to operate off of gravel runways . It also includes an addition to the nose gear to help prevent gravel from getting kicked up . For this reason , airlines like Canadian North still operate multiple 737-200 aircraft in order to provide service to airports with gravel runways . High-wing aircraft are better suited for this type of mission ( see <URL> ) . The <URL> is a military airlift designed to operate from remote airfields . Its wings are placed above the fuselage rather than below , which allows the engines to be mounted further above the ground . The IL-76 is a Russian aircraft of a similar configuration that also operates out of unpaved fields . Aircraft with engines mounted on the rear fuselage also protect the engines from ingesting FOD . The new <URL> jet advertises the ability to operate from unpaved strips . Older aircraft like the 727 or the Tu-154 have this engine placement as well , and both can operate from unpaved fields . 737-200 landing on a gravel runway . The gravel kit is visible as the small extension just below the front of the engine , and the addition to the rear of the nose gear .
If the aircraft has not established a <URL> , a go around is required . According to EUROCONTROL 's Skybrary , a stabilised approach is defined as : Their Approach-and-landing Accident Reduction ( ALAR ) Briefing Note 7-1 suggests that " all flights must be stabilised by 1000 feet above airport elevation in IMC and 500 feet above airport elevation in VMC . An approach is stabilised when all of the following criteria are met : The aircraft is on the correct flight path Only small changes in heading/pitch are necessary to maintain the correct flight path The airspeed is not more than VREF + 20kts indicated speed and not less than VREF The aircraft is in the correct landing configuration Sink rate is no greater than 1000 feet/minute ; if an approach requires a sink rate greater than 1000 feet/minute a special briefing should be conducted Power setting is appropriate for the aircraft configuration and is not below the minimum power for the approach as defined by the operating manual All briefings and checklists have been conducted Specific types of approach are stabilized if they also fulfill the following : ILS approaches must be flown within one dot of the glide-slope and localizer a Category II or III approach must be flown within the expanded localizer band during a circling approach wings should be level on final when the aircraft reaches 300 feet above airport elevation ; and , Unique approach conditions or abnormal conditions requiring a deviation from the above elements of a stabilized approach require a special briefing . An approach that becomes unstabilised below 1000 feet above airport elevation in IMC or 500 feet above airport elevation in VMC requires an immediate go-around . ( Source : <URL> )
Refueling an airliner with APU running is a perfectly normal procedure and it is done daily all around the world . The APU is located at the tail cone partially to reduce the risk of fire spreading to the fuel tanks , which are normally in the wings and center fuselage . Some operators and authorities ( not all ) restrict starting and/or stopping the APU while fueling .
Inverters , it would appear , were not uncommon . I get the feeling that the quality of the ( unregulated ) AC from alternators was insufficient for instrument applications , and was primarily used for less sensitive systems . For more stable AC , it appears that the inverters were used . B-17G AC System Alternating current for the autosyn instruments , drift meter , radio compass , and warning signals transformer is furnished by either of 2 inverters , one of which is a standby for the other . One inverter is under the pilot 's seat and the other under the copilot 's seat . A single-pole , double-throw switch on the pilot 's control panel controls the DC power to the inverters and selects the inverter to be used . In the " NORMAL " position the left-hand inverter is on and in the " ALTERNATE " position the right-hand inverter is on . <URL> <URL> also seem to offer support for this . B-47 Stratojet Finally , a <URL> . Two ( unregualted ) AC alternators for ' windscreen deicing and some radar equipment ' , with 2 +1 spare single-phase inverters for other AC users . <URL> <URL> KC-97 Stratostanker Has 6 generator dials , and 4 inverters on the flight engineer 's station , looking at a panel diagram and the bottom right of <URL> . That being said , there are two switches labelled alternators on the AC section of the panel . They only seem to offer " NESA Bus " ( B-47 manual seems to imply this is for window deicing ) or Bus No. 2 , depending on how the right switch is set . The left switch is for the voltmeter/ammeter dials . Credits to brewbooks on Flickr
The system you 're asking about is called radar : ATC should monitor it to see what the plane is doing and ask what is going on when something unexpected happens . It 's hard to " automate " these kinds of alerts . For example , a sudden dive can also be cause by an uncontrolled control-surface hard-over ( like the <URL> that brought down 2 planes ) , or a loss of cabin pressurization ( which requires a rapid descent to an altitude where your passengers can breathe ) . The other option is having a second person in the cockpit who can wrest control away from the disobedient pilot ( or let people in the cockpit to help ) .
<URL> contains the information of what you can and can not do to an aircraft and what requirements you must have . If you are a certificated Private Pilot ( as in not a sport pilot ) , there are quite a few things you can do to an aircraft you own , that is not used for commercial purposes . Like : Replace wheel bearings Remove/repair/reinstall wheels Replace safety wiring and cotter keys Service landing gear struts by adding oil/air Lubrication not requiring disassembly of non-structural items like cover plates , cowlings , and fairings Simple fabric patches not requiring rib stitching or removing structural parts or control surfaces Replenishing hydraulic fluid Refinishing decorative coating of fuselage and other parts Repairing upholstery without disassembly Simple repairs to fairings , etc Replacing side windows Replacing safety belts Replacing seats or seat parts with approved replacements Troubleshooting and repairing broken circuits in landing light wing circuits Replacing bulbs , reflectors , and lenses of position and landing lights Replacing wheels and skis where no weight and balance computation is required Replacing cowling not requiring removing the propeller or disconnecting flight controls Replacing or cleaning spark plugs and setting gap clearance Replacing any hose connection except hydraulic connections Replacing prefabricated fuel lines Cleaning or replacing fuel and oil strainers or filter elements Replacing and servicing batteries And others <URL> However , note that it has to be your airplane , and it ca n't be used commercially ( which I think includes offering it for rent ) . There is very little you can do in the way of avionics ( read # 31 and # 32 in the reference I gave ) . The fun thing to note is that although a PPL is required , the PPL training does not give any special attention to any of these items , and therefore really somebody off the street is technically just as qualified as a private pilot , but the private pilot is the only one authorized to do the work ( provided they own the plane ) . When I got my PPL , nobody walked me through replacing cotter pins or anti-back-out devices ... Edit These rules though may be different when you get into experimental category aircraft but I ca n't source it now and will do more research and edit when I can clarify .
That ' cloudy stuff ' that you say is not ' turbulence ' , but condensed water vapor , the condensation being due to the sudden cooling caused by the adiabatic expansion of the air due to the aerodynamic disturbance caused by a passing blade ( or wing ) . That condensation can also be observed as wakes in landing aircraft , and in stationary revving props . It appears when the sudden expansion takes place in humidity conditions close to saturation .
end question
start question
Does ATC have to maintain separation on diverging aircraft ?
Yes , this is allowed , subject to certain conditions . See <URL> ( the ATC " bible " ) , section 5-5-7 , for the full details . ... all other approved separation may be discontinued and passing or diverging separation applied when ... Aircraft are on opposite/reciprocal courses and you have observed that they have passed each other ; or aircraft are on same or crossing courses/assigned radar vectors and one aircraft has crossed the projected course of the other , and the angular difference between their courses/assigned radar vectors is at least 15 degrees . That 's in the terminal environment ; it 's still possible in the enroute environment but a bit more restrictive due to the greater aircraft speeds and poorer radar accuracy .
The simple EGT gauges do not have numerical scales because you never lean to a temperature . You find the peak temperature , set the movable red needle to that temperature , and then lean to x degrees lean ( or enrichen to x degrees ) of peak temperature . Set the peak temperature at full throttle , full rich at a sea level airport . This system eliminates the concerns of calibration : Is the gauge calibrated , did the mechanic install the probe in exactly the right spot , etc. etc. .
This is related to an answer I gave <URL> about why aircraft typically do not have mirrors and external cameras . Short answer : yes aircraft do have sensors to detect damage , but not the kind of damage you 're talking about . Long answer : to design or decide what sensors to put on the aircraft and where , we have to get started with failure modes . There are at least a million way for components to fail , however , some failure are more likely to occur than others . Do we have sensors which detect failures / abnormal situations ? We do ! We have sensors for control surfaces , hydraulics , gears , tire pressure , cabin pressure , engine temperature , oil pressure etc. . Here is an image of one of the cockpit screens on a Boeing : <URL> ( <URL> ) OK , so why not more sensors ? Because sensors can fail . Now that would be a nightmare to troubleshoot : the sensor says the right outer landing light is not illuminated . Is that true ? Let me exit the aircraft and take a look ... . It turns out that : Many failure modes are " internal " , e.g. a valve malfunctioning . They are invisible on the exterior of an aircraft . Aircraft rarely collide with any other objects . Relying on visual indication is actually a good thing , because it is reliable and it 's free . Building an array of sensors covering each skin on the aircraft would be extremely complex , the construction cost would be high and the system would be heavy . Sensors are just another component of the system . The more sensors , the more likely something will fail . At some point one has to trust the underlying component to function without relying on system indications . Perhaps this is the kind of system you have in mind : <URL> ( Screenshot of " Stealth " ( 2005 ) , 01:01:11 ) Nah , that 's just Hollywood artistic license .
I assume that you 're asking about piston engine light aircraft , so we can ignore gliders and electric engines for now . The basic point is that they 're all loud . <URL> compared a Cessna 172 ( single engine ) and a Piper Seminole ( twin engine ) and found that the average cabin noise was around 86 <URL> , with no huge difference between the two aircraft . There 's more analysis of a Seminole <URL> . The FAA <URL> that a light aircraft cabin is in the range of 70-90dB and <URL> measured 92-98dB in different Cirrus models . <URL> in the US <URL> ear protection and other measures for workers if the noise in their environment is 85dB or more . Since decibels are on a logarithmic scale , the difference between 86dB and 98dB is large . But I searched a few aviation forums and there 's very little discussion of cabin noise in light singles apart from a few subjective remarks . I could n't find any good sources that said one aircraft type is well known as being noisier or quieter than average . The only consistent comment is that helicopters are louder than fixed-wing aircraft , which is also shown in the FAA document linked above . Having said that , there are quite a few articles online about soundproofing aircraft in different ways . <URL> quotes the example of a jet : Aero Sound Shield is currently soundproofing a particularly large corporate jet - a converted McDonnell-Douglas MD-87 - for a Las Vegas hotel owner who is almost totally blind and who has compensated by developing extremely sensitive hearing . " He wants a 60-dB airplane , which is quieter than a Lexus , " Nelson points out . But the same article makes the point that modifying any aircraft to add soundproofing increases the weight to a point that makes the aircraft much less useful : Unfortunately , your airplane and mine ca n't accept the mass and weight of MD-87 measures . " I rode one time in a Piper Arrow that was very quiet , " Nelson recalls , " but it was completely lead-lined . It could carry two people and half a load of fuel . That was fine for that guy , because that 's all he ever wanted to carry , but it was n't very practical . " Furthermore , it 's worth remembering that modern noise-cancelling headsets are very good so the problem of noise ( as opposed to vibration , which is also a factor for fatigue and health ) has been more or less solved for most people . Even if you spend $ 1000 or more on a high-end ANR headset , that 's a minor cost compared to altering the aircraft structure or materials and you still have full performance and useful load . I guess that for most GA pilots that 's the decisive factor .
Have n't seen any . Cabin heating is done quite differently on jet aircraft than on pistons . Bleed air is taken from the engine before the combustion chamber , so engine exhaust ca n't end up in the cabin , even if there was a greater fault in the A/C packs .
For tours , call the facility and say you 're interested in aviation , and would like a tour , same as pilots . Depending on the facility , business hour tours are preferred , though others will let you come any time they have available staffing to escort you around . As far as I know , there are no video feed of any ATC facilities .
It all depends ... There will be some minimum power required to maintain level flight at any given altitude . If you 're applying more power than that then you can trim for level flight at any power setting . More power means faster flight , higher fuel consumption and less range , while less power will save fuel and take longer . It 's really your call , but I 'm sure your flying school will opt for economy every time ! You may also find that some light aircraft have prohibited ranges for RPM . Some Robin aircraft , for example , prohibit continuous operation in a band just above 2000rpm ( do n't remember the exact details ) so you 'd have to trim at a power setting below or above that band .
The things you mention would matter , if you wanted to know the distance to 6 or more significant digits . But ATC does not need that precision . They need to be able to tell whether it 's 4 nmi ( too close ) , 5 nmi ( still sufficient , but getting in trouble ) or 10 nmi ( no worry , but should not be heading directly towards each other ) . That is one significant digit . The controller does not use any formula . They just look at the distance of the targets on the radar scope ( which is drawn properly to scale ) . And possibly use the grid that is drawn over it or compares to the leader lines ( indicating velocity ) or history trail . The controller does n't need precision , they need to look and see . And they are not getting any precision ; on centre station ( controller handling en-route traffic ) the radar target blob is about a mile wide . Until recently , aircraft did not broadcast position at all . Many still do n't ; not all aircraft are equipped with ADS-B . For those that do n't , the interrogator may have precision similar to DME ( ~ 0.1 nmi ) in range and a degree or two in angle . Not great precision either . The radar also has single rotating antena that takes couple of seconds to scan the whole circle , so the position of the aircraft is only updated once every few seconds . Jet airliner in cruise moves some 700 m in 3 s. On such radar , the scope most likely transforms directly from the angle and distance reported by the radar to the screen coordinates . Altitude was usually not taken into account ( so higher targets appear further than they really are ! ) in the older systems . New radars with ADS-B support ( less busy areas do n't need it ) need to combine the radar data with coordinates reported by ADS-B , which are in WGS84 , so WGS84 is usually used as intermediate format for the collected data . But shortcuts can still be taken in the software . I do n't know what which radar system manufacturer uses , but I work on navigations and we tested the precision . By assuming Earth is flat and the coordinate system is orthogonal and using simple Pythagorean formula , you can still get 3-4 significant digits ( unless you are working around north or south pole ) for points tens of miles apart , which is more than enough for the radar screen . So the system can simply multiply longitude and latitude with appropriate factors ( that depend on latitude of the sector centre ) and get sufficient precision .
The short answer is to use color in some way . I could n't find anything very detailed on this : there 's plenty of general checklist information out there from the FAA , NASA , universities and so on , but nothing that goes into specific details on how to use colors , fonts or the other things that you mentioned . There is <URL> called The Use and Design of Flightcrew Checklists and Manuals that was part of the response to the <URL> . Unfortunately it 's from 1991 so some content is already dated , and it 's aimed at part 121 and 135 operators with multiple crew members , but it 's an interesting report anyway . Their main recommendation on memory items was simply to reduce them as much as possible because memory is very unreliable compared to checklists , but again that 's in the context of multi-member crews . As for design , layout , formatting etc. , they did make some specific recommendations ( see section 4.1 and Appendix A ) and the most applicable one to your question seems to be the use of color-coding . They strongly recommended the use of color as a general method , e.g. headings in yellow for " abnormal " items and in red for " emergency " items . Interestingly , the report says that at that time ( 1991 ) airlines resisted using color because of the costs of printing , but today it <URL> to highlight critical checklists and items . However , each checklist provider has their own approach to coloring headers , text , blocks or even entire pages . I do n't think there 's any such thing as a standard ' style guide ' for checklists , so if you 're making your own then you can obviously do whatever you want that works for you . But the 1991 report noted that most checklist problems were caused by missing or inaccurate items , so make sure you get the content right before you break out your paintbrushes :-)
Many small , light aircraft are equipped with an autopilot today . They can range from very simple autopilots , without altitude selector and so on , <URL> <URL> , ST SYS 30 , $ 12,000 to advanced systems with altitude selector , automatic trim and so on . <URL> <URL> , Bendix/King KFC 225 , $ 15,000 - 42,000 And with this GPS , feeding the autopilot with data , it has the abilities of an airliner . <URL> <URL> , Garmin ® GTN ™ 750 , $ 17,000 You have to know , the systems in the general aviation industry are getting better and better . Of course they are way below the complexity of the avionics of airliners , but the features are the same if not more . For example : A captain of an airliner has to review or change the flight plan with the FMC , respectively MCDU on Airbus , a not very straight-forward device to control the plane . Of course , the FMS has a lot more capabilities than a GA GPS , but one of it 's primary features is the input of the flight plan . And in that , from the usability-view , the Garmin ® GPS has the better solution : An all-in-one navigation device with touchscreen input .
<URL> of the FAA Order titled " Air Traffic Control " covers the procedures that are used for aircraft departures , including those cases where they have intersecting runways . There are numerous procedures that they follow that are specific to intersecting runways , including : 3-9-4 - LINE UP AND WAIT ( LUAW ) If the tower has an airplane Line Up And Wait ( taxi onto the active runway but not actually takeoff ) because of another airplane that is landing or taking off on an intersecting runway , they must inform them of the other airplane and why they are not taking off . 3-9-7 - WAKE TURBULENCE SEPARATION FOR INTERSECTION DEPARTURES 3-9-8 - INTERSECTING RUNWAY SEPARATION This probably covers most of what you are asking about , and has some great pictures showing when they are allowed to clear another airplane for takeoff in different situations . For instance , they ca n't clear an airplane for takeoff with another airplane landing on an intersecting runway until after they have passed their runway . Note that there are similar procedures in <URL> In short , there are lots of extra procedures that must be followed when using intersecting runways simultaneously , but they also get a lot of operational benefits when they can do it so are able to get a lot more airplanes on and off the ground in the same amount of time .
The UHF air band operates in AM in a general range of 225.0 -- 399.95 MHz . Many ATC functions have both VHF and UHF frequencies . For example , <URL> Tower uses 118.3 and 257.6 . ATC will often broadcast on both the VHF and UHF frequencies . You can look up these frequencies on the <URL> to see who is allowed to use these frequencies . This is also located in CFR Title 47 , § 2.106 . According to the table , the the non-emergency allocation of these frequencies is Federal use : In the bands 225-328 .6 MHz , 335.4-399 .9 MHz , and 1350-1390 MHz , the fixed and mobile services are limited to the military services . The bands 235-322 MHz and 335.4-399 .9 MHz are also allocated on a primary basis to the mobile-satellite service , limited to military operations . There are no non-Federal uses cited for those ranges . Also , per <URL> : Non-Federal stations may be authorized to use Federal frequencies in the bands above 25 MHz if the Commission finds , after consultations with the appropriate Federal agency or agencies , that such use is necessary for coordination of Federal and non-Federal activities So it seems that if you do n't have a military purpose , outside of special agreements you are not allowed to use these frequencies . For more information , the National Telecommunications &amp; Information Administration ( NTIA ) has reports on the usage of the <URL> and <URL> of this band . Technically there are also limited non-Federal uses but they do n't apply to this question : The frequency 243 MHz is the frequency in this band for use by survival craft stations and equipment used for survival purposes . ... may also be used , in accordance with the procedures in force for terrestrial radiocommunication services , for search and rescue operations concerning manned space vehicles . For the gap in the ranges mentioned above : The use of the band 328.6-335 .4 MHz by the aeronautical radionavigation service is limited to Instrument Landing Systems ( glide path ) . And additionally for 322-328 .6 MHz : ... all practicable steps shall be taken to protect the radio astronomy service from harmful interference .
The FAA 's <URL> gives both US and ICAO definitions : RADAR CONTACT - a. Used by ATC to inform an aircraft that it is identified on the radar display and radar flight following will be provided until radar identification is terminated . Radar service may also be provided within the limits of necessity and capability . When a pilot is informed of " radar contact , " he/she automatically discontinues reporting over compulsory reporting points . [ ... ] b . The term used to inform the controller that the aircraft is identified and approval is granted for the aircraft to enter the receiving controllers airspace . ( See ICAO term RADAR CONTACT . ) RADAR CONTACT [ ICAO ] - The situation which exists when the radar blip or radar position symbol of a particular aircraft is seen and identified on a radar display . RADAR CONTACT LOST - Used by ATC to inform a pilot that radar data used to determine the aircraft 's position is no longer being received , or is no longer reliable and radar service is no longer being provided . The loss may be attributed to several factors including the aircraft merging with weather or ground clutter , the aircraft operating below radar line of sight coverage , the aircraft entering an area of poor radar return , failure of the aircraft transponder , or failure of the ground radar equipment . Note that this is not a universal term , Canada uses " radar identified " instead . Their equivalent of the P/CG is the <URL> : " Radar identified " An expression used by ATC to inform the pilot of an aircraft when radar identification is established . Fr : " Identifié radar " And : " Radar contact " U.S. : Expression for : " Radar identified "
When an aircraft has been given a clearance to land on a runway , that runway is exclusively reserved for the landing aircraft . ( Except for LAHSO and " land after " operations , where only part of the runway is reserved for the landing aircraft ) . That means that no other aircraft or vehicle should be on that runway . In this case , clearly something went unplanned . Either the crossing aircraft was not given permission to cross , the landing aircraft no clearance to land , or ATC mistakenly cleared both the landing aircraft and the crossing aircraft to access the runway . Pilots should always check if the runway they are accessing is safe , and in this case the crew of the landing aircraft did apparently observe the incursion and aborted their landing . The crew of the crossing aircraft noticed the landing aircraft a bit late , but you hear their engines spool up as well as they cross . The sound of the go-around thrust arrives second later due to the difference in distance . The crossing aircraft seems to be taxiing toward the rising sun so they may have been blinded and missed the fact that they were crossing a runway .
I would say yes you can as per the FAR as I read them the limitations on a PPL are § 61.113 ( a ) Except as provided in paragraphs ( b ) through ( h ) of this section , no person who holds a private pilot certificate may act as pilot in command of an aircraft that is carrying passengers or property for compensation or hire ; nor may that person , for compensation or hire , act as pilot in command of an aircraft So you cant act as Pilot In Command for hire or if there are passengers on board ( which in this case I assume there are not ) however if we look at the FAR for the official definition of " Pilot In Command " we will find Pilot in command means the person who : ( 1 ) Has final authority and responsibility for the operation and safety of the flight ; ( 2 ) Has been designated as pilot in command before or during the flight ; and ( 3 ) Holds the appropriate category , class , and type rating , if appropriate , for the conduct of the flight . The question is does taxing count as a " Flight " . I would think it does not and moving the aircraft around is part of maintenance ( thats how they log the hours on the trainer planes I rent ) . The FAR definitions section ( § 1.1 ) does not seem to contain one for " flight " so that may be open to interpretation . But as I read it you can taxi the aircraft for compensation as its not a " Flight " and thus you are not the Pilot In Command which is when the PPL rules would come into play in my opinion . However section § 65.81 states However , he may not supervise the maintenance , preventive maintenance , or alteration of , or approve and return to service , any aircraft or appliance , or part thereof , for which he is rated unless he has satisfactorily performed the work concerned at an earlier date . The key line ( Bolded ) is return to service . If Taxing counts as returned to service then ( unless rated to do so ) you may not be able to for this reason ( nothing to do with compensation ) . Note : I am not a lawyer nor an aircraft mechanic and can not guarantee that my assumptions are correct . The opinions stated above should not be used as official legal advice and there may be more information in the FAR that I have not come across . This was compiled after some quick reading and searching in the assumed correct places . Note 2 : I would assume that in a commercial setting ( and really any setting ) there are some insurance implications to this kind of operation ( especially with large aircraft ) . This may almost be a bigger concern than the legality of it ( although both are important ) . You would not want to get into the situation where you may be legally allowed to drive the plane on the tarmac but are not covered by the company 's insurance . Should you get into an accident you or your shop may become liable for the damages .
There is no requirement to have the certificate with you on board during flight . The holder of a radio authorization shall , at the request of an inspector appointed pursuant to the Act , show the radio authorization or a copy thereof to the inspector within 48 hours after the request . Source : <URL>
Let 's remember what a transponder code is used for in the first place . When transmitting a non-discrete code , such as 1200 , ATC has no way1 of telling you apart from other aircraft transmitting the same code . On the ATC radar , you will simply show up as something like " 1200/A030 " where 1200 is the code transmitted and A030 ( 3000FT ) is you mode C altitude . To provide you with radar service , ATC has to be able to identify you on the radar , which means that they have to be able to distinctly associate your flight with a specific track on the radar . They do this using transponder codes2 . An assigned ( discrete ) transponder code will be unique for a flight within a given area . Say you are instructed to squawk 2174 , you will now show up on the screen as " 2174/A030 " , and because ATC knows that you , and no one else in the area , is squawking 2174 , they know that they are you looking at you . Your question is , how does ATC keep track of the assigned transponder codes ? Today this is mostly an automated process . A central flight data processing system ( or the US equivalent - sorry for my European terminology ) contains a database of all active flightplans as well as their assigned transponder codes . When a discrete transponder code is received by the ATM system , it will automatically query this database , asking for any flightplan information associated with this specific transponder code . It will then show the received information on the radar screen . Essentially , the transponder code is a database key , allowing the system to look up information about your flight and show it to the controller . Now you are no longer shown on the radar with just your transponder code and mode C altitude , because the system has a lot more information about you . You might be shown as something like " N12345/A030/C172 " ( callsign/altitude/aircraft type ) . The exact label varies greatly from system to system - the point here being that the system is now able to show specific information from your flightplan rather than just generic information submitted by your transponder . So how does a controller know if you have been assigned a transponder code or not ? If you have , you will be shown on their radar screen as a full label , with callsign etc. . If not , your callsign is no where to be found on the radar , and they will have to guess that you are probably one of the ( potentially many ) 1200-tracks on the screen . 1 : They can in fact identify you by other means , such as requesting your exact position and heading , but identification with the help of transponder is a lot simpler . 2 : Normal 4-digit transponder codes are slowly being replaced by mode-S transponders , which transmit a unique 24-bit aircraft identifier at all times to the radar system . But that 's probably best left for another question .
In the Boeing world , LNAV is Lateral Navigation , and VNAV is Vertical Navigation . When LNAV is engaged , the autopilot will follow the Flight Management Computer ( FMC ) guidance laterally , i.e. left &amp; right . When VNAV is engaged , the autopilot will follow the FMC guidance vertically , i.e. climbs &amp; descents . LNAV is conceptually pretty simple : you have a magenta line on the map , your desired course , and the autopilot will follow it . The points defining your course are database points in the FMC that may but certainly do not have to correspond with VOR 's or other conventional NavAids . You can use LNAV to fly VOR-to-VOR , or it can fly point-to-point-to-point equally easily . ( You do n't have to tune any frequencies in either case . ) VNAV is a little more complicated , because you may only be cleared for some of what the FMC wants to do vertically . Simple example : you 're cruising at FL370 , planning to start down at a given point so as to cross AAA at FL240 , and then continue the descent to cross BBB and 10,000 ' and 250 knots . ATC clears you to " descend at pilot discretion , maintain FL 290 . " That means you can start down at whatever point you want , but until you get cleared lower later on , you ca n't descend all the way to FL240 or 10,000 . Yet . Or maybe the controller needs to put you at FL350 right now to avoid a traffic conflict 100 miles ahead , and your clearance is " descend now and maintain FL350 , pilot discretion FL290 . " It 's a lengthy section of Ground School how the pilot sets up the FMC and the mode control panel to accomplish all of this , but hopefully that illustrates some of the complexity of VNAV . It 's a good system ; under typical conditions you can go into LNAV and VNAV shortly after takeoff and stay in them both until shortly before landing , and the FMC gives you smooth ( mostly ) and efficient guidance .
It does n't appear to be a patent thing . The main work on the chevron ( shaped nozzles ) was done by NASA . Every design decision in an aircraft is a compromise and this was no different . The addition of chevrons for noise suppression leads to a ( small ) increase in specific fuel consumption and Airbus considered it not worth it . Flightglobal quotes <URL> as saying : We did n't get a noise advantage from chevrons , and there is a specific fuel consumption penalty , so we 've not adopted them . Airbus seems to have gone in the insulation and high bypass route for reducing noise . From the same article : Goodrich is to build the engine nacelle for the A350 's GEnx engine , with Airbus supplying the composite inlet , which incorporates a " zero splice " acoustic inner barrel to provide a new level of fan-noise reduction . As an example of the acoustic treatment of nacelle in A320 family , <URL> : The thrust reverser structure was acoustically treated along approximately half of its internal surface . It was clear that increasing this acoustic area would increase the acoustic sound absorption and hence decrease the overall measurable exhaust noise . The inner fixed structure was redesigned with increased acoustic area . In addition , the support struts and several fairings were also modified to include acoustic treatment . The result was an increase in the acoustic area of the thrust reverser by approximately 2 square meters ( 21.5 sq ft ) . Airbus does use chevrons in some of the aircraft , like A321 along with nacelle acoustic improvements ; however , the chevrons are available only in the inner ( core ) nozzle . The package is available as standard for CFM powered A321 aircraft and options are available for A320 . The image below shows a A321 with chevron nozzles . <URL> Image from <URL> According to <URL> : The noise reduction package is currently offered as the basic standard on all CFM powered Airbus A321 aircraft . It is also optional on all the other A320 Family aircraft .
No , EASA can not access anything . You will be asked to bring your medical records to the exams . Neither EASA nor your examining doctor is able to access any of your medical records without your consent . It 's restricted personal information . Some countries already have medical records in digital ( computerized ) form , but many still rely on written data . In any case , EU institutions have no jurisdiction outside of EU . You will also be given a questionnaire that will include a checkbox for any known medical conditions you have ( or had in the past ) . I do n't know what your condition is/was , but it might be a good idea to consult a private examiner first before checking anything on the list that might prevent you from getting a certificate issued .
end question
start question
Why are adjustable area jet engine nozzles mostly limited to military use ?
A variable area nozzle helps to adjust the exit pressure of the combustion gases to ambient pressure . When they leave the turbine , the combustion gases have still some remaining pressure which is converted into speed by a convergent contour of the nozzle . If the combustion gases have enough pressure to be accelerated to supersonic speed , the nozzle is actually first convergent and then divergent to achieve the best acceleration of the flow . The convergent , subsonic flow accelerates until in the section with the smallest area , called the throat , the speed of sound is reached , and the following divergent section accelerates the now supersonic flow further until its pressure drops to ambient pressure . This con-di-nozzle needs to adjust both the cross section of the throat and the cross section of the exit area . Failure to get especially the throat area right will mean substantial thrust loss in operation . Afterburning engines need adaptable nozzles due to the different operating conditions in dry and wet mode , so they profit the most from adjustable nozzles . Reheating the exhaust gas means to increase its volume , so the nozzle needs to become wider to be properly matched . In general , if the exit speed of the combustion gases is supersonic , an adjustable nozzle is required . Even some early jets without afterburners had an adjustable nozzle : The central cone of the <URL> nozzle could be moved fore and aft , which changed the location of the bulbous aft section , helping to get the throat area right . Note in the picture below that the cross section widens again in the last part of the nozzle , which shows that the exhaust stream of the Jumo engine was mildly supersonic . Airliner engines would only gain little from an adjustable nozzle , and considering the mass increase of a fully adjustable nozzle , would in total have lower efficiency . Their exit speed is still subsonic - please note that the speed of sound in the heated combustion gas is much higher . At 500 ° C the speed of sound is almost 560 m/s . The variable area fan nozzle tries to do for the fan flow what the regular nozzle does for the core flow of a jet . So this is indeed a related concept . The picture below is copied from the US patent 2011/0302907A1 and shows an adjustable end part of the cowling ( crosshatched , 54 ) . Even though the exit speed of the fan flow is subsonic , its mass flow is much higher than that of the core in airliner engines . By adjusting the exit pressure by varying the exit area it can squeeze out some performance gains .
Yes , the tips of the fan blades . Let 's look at an example : The <URL> has a <URL> of 3124 mm and a maximum rotational speed of 3475 RPM . Their circumferential velocity is d · π · 57.917 = 568 m/s or Mach 1.67 at sea level and ISO atmosphere . Now you need to add the flow speed of the air , but this calculation alone should be sufficient to prove the point . The inner part of the fan and all the compressor stages belonging to the core engine experience flow at subsonic speed , even if the whole engine is flying at <URL> ( see picture below ) . To make ignition as complete as possible , the flow speed is <URL> the closer you move to the fuel injectors . Since the air is heated in the combustion chamber , the hotter gas has a higher speed of sound , and all the flow through the turbine is subsonic , too . This includes the low-pressure turbine . Even the 1,600 ft/s shown below at the turbine is subsonic , because at 1100 ° C the speed of sound in air is <URL> or 2,362 ft/s . <URL> Overview of parameters in a typical jet engine . Only in the rear part of a <URL> with reheat switched on will supersonic flow again be attained . This is exactly aft of the narrowest section , called the throat , where airspeed is equal to the speed of sound , and the petals of the nozzle are the only moving parts here . And they move rather slowly .
I find it hard to make a general answer since the fuel systems could be different between various aircraft , but , according to Jan Roskam 's Aircraft Design series ( I just had to return the book , but I think it 's Part IV in the series ) some model of the F/A -18 utilizes the following system which , in sustained inverted flight ( or any sustained flight condition wherein the aircraft does not experience a positive load factor ) , would eventually starve the engine of fuel . Keep in mind too that fuel is n't the only factor for sustaining this flight condition : oil flow through the engine is typically gravity fed ( reference for that is an engineer from Bell Helicopter who worked on the V-22 powerplant ) . Suction is used to scavenge the oil out of the engine/gearboxes/etc , but the flow of the oil up to a point where suction will pull it out is via gravity ( or whatever acceleration the aircraft is experiencing ) . Hence , not only do we need to provide fuel , but we also need to provide for proper oil flow as well . Anyhow , the F/A -18 fuel system . Again , I wish I had the image from the text to show you , but the basic idea is this : if you had a flop tube capable of scavenging from the entire fuel tank , it would engender more problems than it solved . Hence , inside of the primary fuel tank there 's a second , smaller tank . This tank has a series of poppet valves that allow fuel to flow into the inset tank during coordinated ( i.e. , positive load factor ) flight . When the aircraft is not experiencing a positive load factor , the pressure of the fuel on these valves holds them closed and the fuel stays within the inset tank . A short flop tube within this space provides fuel to the engines for the duration of the maneuver . However , as noted , this inset tank is only a portion of the larger main tank , so its capacity would be some fraction of the main tank , limiting the duration of the maneuver . So , to answer your question ( how does fuel starvation happen and why is n't it solved via a pump ) it 's a design problem that , per the printing of that text , could not be solved by adding capacity to the pump . There just simply was n't fuel present at the fuel sump to be scavenged . The real design problem would lie in the design of flop tubes capable of scavenging from the entire tank without creating more design problems ( an assumed point on my part ) . Examples , I think , would crop up if you decided to make a multiplicity of flop tubes ( larger pumps required , more parts , more complex plumbing , etc. ) , or longer flop tubes ( potential risk for damage to the tube head/tank with increased " flopping " inertia , larger pump required for greater head losses , etc. ) ... but I also do n't know what the current standard is .
The underwing engine location allows for a lighter airframe . Placing the engines under/ahead of the wings brings these benefits : Bending relief : Engine mass is closer to where lift is created , so the structure has less stress to carry around . Flutter suppression : Placing the engines ahead of the elastic axis of the wing shifts the flutter speed up , so the wing can be built less stiff . Better evacuation : With wing-mounted engines a rear door is possible to create a second point for emergency egress . Lower noise level in the rear cabin . More useable cabin space at the rear . Easier access to the engines for maintenance . Shorter piping for fuel and bleed air . Especially in the narrow fuselages of regional jets the air ducts for ventilation take a lot of valuable space . And do n't discount psychology : The underwing engine design looks more like the bigger jets , which can be a big factor for some passengers . The airplane looks safer and more mature . With modern CFD it is much easier to reduce the interference between the engine nacelles and the wing , so the biggest disadvantage of an underwing engine location can be reduced . Note that early designs for the Boeing 737 used rear-mounted engines . By relocating them under the wings , the structure could be made 700 kg lighter . Quote from <URL> : Overall , the wing-mounted layout had a weight saving of 700Kgs over the equivalent " T-tail " design and had performance advantages . The rear-mounted engines were a fad from the late Fifties ( started by the <URL> ) to the mid-sixties and driven by the concern about the higher risk of low-mounted engines ingesting debris and the higher asymmetry in engine-out conditions . With more operational experience and more reliable engines , these concerns proved unfounded . Citing <URL> again : Initial worries about the low mounted engines ingesting debris proved unfounded , this was demonstrated by the Boeing 720B whose inboard engines are lower than the 737 's and had been in service for four years without significant problems . Small business jets still prefer rear-mounted engines so they can operate from more airfields ( on which the runway might not be as clean as those of big airports ) and because the weight penalty of rear-mounted engines is less pronounced . Instead of bending and thrust loads , handling loads and manufacturability drive the minimum skin gauges on smaller jets .
Flow conditions are not so different , only the reaction of the flow to an obstacle is . By <URL> , supersonic flow is handled easily , and <URL> in decelerating and compressing the flow . However , supersonic flow demands sharp intake lips which are hit by the flow at the right angle , otherwise drag rises quickly to intolerable levels . These sharp lips will cause flow separation in subsonic flow when hit by the flow at an angle , so aerodynamic tricks like <URL> need to be added to the intake to keep flow angles at the intake lips in check . Note that the intake will ensure a <URL> at the compressor face of the engine , regardless of flight speed . Therefore , the engine will not need to be optimized for supersonic flight . However , to keep its frontal area low and the <URL> , its <URL> should be low . The only troubles this causes are increased engine fuel consumption and <URL> .
From a single spotting location , then yes by training . But for any location , then it 's very hard . <URL> when the sound reflects off the surrounding surfaces , e.g. , ground , buildings , etc. . And when the sound comes from above . Most mammals are adept at resolving the location of a sound source using interaural time differences and interaural level differences . However , no such time or level differences exist for sounds originating along the circumference of circular conical slices , where the cone 's axis lies along the line between the two ears . Consequently , sound waves originating at any point along a given circumference slant height will have ambiguous perceptual coordinates . That is to say , the listener will be incapable of determining whether the sound originated from the back , front , top , bottom or anywhere else along the circumference at the base of a cone at any given distance from the ear . Tilting your head might help though . So much so , airplane spotters in WWII judging only by sound <URL> and the entire Luftwaffe was sent looking in the wrong direction , only to realize the direction reported was incorrect and they had to land once they started running out of fuel . Göring freely admitted the laugh was on him , that he had sent the Luftwaffe on a mammoth tour of their own air space . But with computers it can be done using <URL> . Or good old <URL> : <URL> ( <URL> ) Chinese soldiers man a sound detector which directs the firing of 3-inch anti-aircraft guns , around the city of Chongqing , China , on May 2 , 1941 . P.S. Same problem arises when trying to figure out where an artillery fire is coming from or going to .
I 'll assume you 're referring to astronaut helmets only because of their sunglasses-like reflective properties against visual light , not other wavelengths . There are some small efforts by manufacturers to add some reflective coatings to their windshields . The 787 has <URL> that had a gold-based heating film that also reflected infrared light - useful because a cockpit can heat up quickly . Military jets like the F-16 can have golden-tinted " Have Glass " cockpit windows but <URL> , not to filter visual light . There are several reasons visible-light reflective windshields are never seen . The first is that optically it 's very difficult to have reflection only go one way . Reflective coatings work well for sunglasses and some car windows because the light coming in can be assumed to be much brighter than the light going out , so glare from inside is not a huge problem . In an aircraft , where that tiny light on the horizon could be a several-ton aircraft closing in fast , the requirements for night vision are a bit higher . It should be noted that , for cars , reflective or tinted windshields are illegal in the USA for a number of reasons , including visibility . The second reason is that bright outside light is a solved problem , so we do n't have to resort to desperate measures like permanent reflective tinting . Sunglasses use by pilots , even though <URL> , is so widespread there 's literally a style of sunglasses named " aviators " and the FAA has a safety brochure on selecting sunglasses ( <URL> ) . If the pilot does n't like sunglasses , they can <URL> .
There is a good writeup <URL> that explains the engine issues as well as the rest of the incident you mentioned . Core lock happens when parts inside the engine cool off at different rates , causing interference between them . In the case of the CF34 engines on these Bombardier jets : GE isolated the problem to contact between components of the high-pressure-turbine interstage seal - a static , pressurized honeycomb component - and the rotating seal teeth on the outer torque coupling . Working on getting a good illustration of what they are talking about . This does not mean that the engine is " not functional . " There is just much more resistance on the rotating components , but once the temperatures have time to equalize , the components will break free . According to the NTSB , FDR data indicate that the engine cores were beginning to break free just before the impact . During core lock , the resistance makes starting the engine more difficult . A windmill start does not provide very much turning force on the engine components , so the resistance from core lock makes that method of starting difficult . GE has done engine testing , and when the windmill restart fails , they are able to use bleed air from the other engine to restart the engine , which provides more turning force .
Besides the main points you mentioned , I can think of a couple things , the first is sort of related to your point # 1 . Airplanes are designed to be easy to service . Cars are less so . Cars only have a few very expensive parts , mainly the drivetrain ( engine and transmission ) . If either of those needs to be replaced in an older car , it can easily cost more than the car is worth . Airplanes are much more complex , and have a larger number of expensive components . The engines of most airliners are designed to be removed relatively quickly . Although the engines tend to be the most expensive part , replacing an engine is nowhere near the total cost of the airplane , and there is generally a good pool of engines out there for parts and replacement ( just look at how many JT8D engines are still in service ) . In GA aircraft , it is easier for a repair to cost more than the airplane is worth . However , the more comprehensive maintenance required on aircraft means that this kind of repair is less likely to be needed . Also , while its usually easy to go out and replace a broken car with a comparable new or used one , the aircraft market is n't as large . New aircraft tend to be much more expensive , and the used market is more limited . Another reason is that airplanes can have more unique qualities than cars . For example , there are original 737s flying in Canada because they are able to operate from gravel runways . There are just more combinations of sizes and capabilities in airplanes than with cars . Many times , it is only economical to replace those aircraft ( both for the builder and the buyer ) in very long cycles .
<URL> . When a business goes bankrupt or bust , depending on jurisdiction , the assets of the company may not belong to the company anymore , they may belong to creditors . Monarch may not have even owned them in the first place , since some airlines use leases from other airlines or banks to get aircraft . Even if Monarch did own the aircraft , and they went belly-up meaning the aircraft were basically nobody 's , now you have to worry about insurance and liability . The aircraft need to be insured to fly , and there is an assumption of liability if something ( like a crash ) were to happen . There are logistics like maintenance , repairs , etc. . Somebody will have to go through all the aircraft and make sure that they are legal to fly ( review logs , maintenance records , etc ) . Then you have the crews : they are not employed , and the CAA is n't going to employ a bunch of pilots for a couple of weeks just to run ferry flights . The pilots may demand benefits , etc. . It would be difficult or impossible to contract them as private parties ( since most insurance companies would not let you do that ) . So the easiest option is to let somebody else take care of all that by using charter flights . They have the infrastructure ( pilots , planes , fuel contracts , insurance , etc ) to get these people out . The CAA just has to call them up and say " we need X number of people picked up from ABC on some-date " , and the charter company takes care of it . Of course it is a little more expensive than doing it yourself , but you are n't trying to basically build a short-term airline and then shut it down again .
There are multiple factors that affect an aircraft based on its cruise altitude . The cruise altitude directly affects the aircraft pressurization and aerodynamics . In order to keep the cabin altitude around 6000 to 8000 feet , the fuselage would have to withstand a higher pressure differential . This would require more material , and make the plane heavier . Newer materials used on the 787 and A350 handle these loads better , which allows a higher pressure differential and larger windows . The altitude also affects the aerodynamics . Aircraft typically cruise at a certain Mach number at high altitudes . The indicated airspeed for a certain Mach number gets lower with higher altitude . This can result in lower drag , but poses challenges as the airspeed drops lower . See : <URL> Also , see <URL> for more detail about the aerodynamic aspects . At higher altitudes , less air is available for the engines , reducing the available power . Along with this there are efficiency benefits . See : <URL> As <URL> explains , those benefits stop increasing around FL360 . The lack of breathable oxygen and increased pressure forces on the fuselage caused by the lower air pressure also lead to greater risks , resulting in tighter regulations on aircraft intending to fly higher . These regulations will add additional cost to flying higher , affecting decisions on service ceilings . <URL> ( d ) The airplane structure must be designed to be able to withstand the pressure differential loads corresponding to the maximum relief valve setting multiplied by a factor of 1.33 for airplanes to be approved for operation to 45,000 feet or by a factor of 1.67 for airplanes to be approved for operation above 45,000 feet , omitting other loads . So for planes operating over 45,000 feet , the structure must be able to withstand an even higher pressure load factor . <URL> ( d ) The oxygen flow rate and the oxygen equipment for airplanes for which certification for operation above 40,000 feet is requested must be approved . Planes operating over 40,000 feet must get special approval for the oxygen system . <URL> ( 2 ) The airplane must be designed so that occupants will not be exposed to a cabin pressure altitude that exceeds the following after decompression from any failure condition not shown to be extremely improbable : ( i ) Twenty-five thousand ( 25,000 ) feet for more than 2 minutes ; or ( ii ) Forty thousand ( 40,000 ) feet for any duration . The cabin altitude is not allowed to exceed 40,000 feet under any condition that is n't extremely improbable . The higher the plane flies , the more difficult this will be to certify . Business jets tend to have higher cruise altitudes , because the smaller structure is easier to reinforce for higher pressures , and typically sees fewer load cycles . Efficiency is also not as important as speed and comfort , so some weight can be spared for the stronger fuselage . The higher altitude also affords more flexibility in routing since most other traffic including commercial airliners are cruising at lower altitudes . Business jets may also be certified under less-stringent regulations .
Linear programming ( LP ) is an optimization method that finds the highest ( or lowest ) possible value of a set of linear equations given a number of linear constraints . There are a number of objectives in Air Traffic Management that may be described by linear equations . Runway throughput for example : twice as many aircraft can be seen as " twice as good " . Or delay : one minute of delay of a passenger aircraft with 400 passengers is as bad as 2 minutes of delay for a passenger aircraft with 200 passengers ( both have 400 passenger-minutes-of-delay ) . Mathematical models based on these linear relationship can help to make decisions for air traffic controllers/planners . There are obvious limitations to linear programming . Not everything can be modeled as a linear relationship . Often the relations are more complex and linear models will be a poor fit because the relationship is not linear at all . In ATFM modelling , usually binary integer variables are used that can only take values of zero or one , thus a Binary Integer Linear Program is solved ( BIP ) . And is 40 minutes of delay of a 10 passenger aircraft as bad as 1 minute of delay of a 400 passenger aircraft ? These kind of relationships tend to prevent the small aircraft from ever taking off : it always pays off to let a bigger aircraft jump the queue . Perhaps a quadratic component in the ' cost-function ' would bring a solution here . Therefore more advanced models are needed . Methods like Integer Linear Programming ( ILP ) , Mixed Integer Linear Programming , Mixed Integer Quadratic Programming and more advance optimization algorithms are used as well . Another problem is that while these optimization methods may be able to find a best possible strategy , they are not necessarily easy to understand . Air traffic controllers do n't like to be just told what to do , they need to understand why a strategy is proposed so they can think ahead and create what-if scenarios . It is impossible to program every what-if scenario in the optimization model , so at times the controller will need to deviate from the proposed solution . Without understanding what the algorithm had planned , it is difficult for a controller to predict the knock-on effects of his deviation from the proposed plan . Early arrival management software worked reasonably well when the weather was nicely playing along , but gave hopelessly wrong suggestions when a couple of thunderstorms would render the normal approach routes unusable . Flexibility and two way communication between the system and the controller is essential to make a good product , there is much more to it than choosing the right optimization algorithm .
Im not sure on military but its still used by GA and Commercial pilots frequently . Although as has been noted in the comments it is slowly being downsized . It should also be noted that Commercial planes and GA planes use the same facilities and the same ATC . Once in the air a C172 may be given the same instructions as a 777 with the only differences being altitude and speed . On one hand some <URL> to some airports . There is an effort to replace these with GPS approaches but there are still active VOR approaches out there today so anyone flying IFR to these airports needs them . They are used for all sorts of IFR navigation and are often the terminal points on an airway , so you may be cleared after departure direct to a VOR . VOR 's can be used as a <URL> . VOR navigation ( and the use of paper charts for that matter ) is still taught during PPL training since GPS is not necessarily installed in every plane . Some <URL> or inertial navigation . <URL> . Personally , I am a big fan of GPS and fly direct when the airspaces and clearances allow for it ( VFR ) . That being said , the planes I rent generally have dual Nav/CDI installations which I frequently use to cross check my position with the GPS .
The RB211 as found on the L-1011 ( first flight Nov 16 , 1970 ) had a fuel control amplifier that , while it was not the primary control of the engine , was capable of controlling fuel flow . <URL> <URL> <URL>
What is the actual numerical reliability statistics of the modern , large-aircraft , commercial turbofan engines available today ? e.g. . How many running hours can we expect a failure after ? Are there empirical or projected MTBF statistics ? Buried in <URL> is the comment that the GE90 has ' only one engine IFSD per one million engine flight-hours ' . <URL> has a lot more info , including these threshholds for ETOPS IFSD rates : Propulsion system should achieve an in-flight shutdown ( IFSD ) rate of : 0.05 / 1000 engine hours for EDTO 120 min 0.02 / 1000 engine hours for EDTO 180 min 0.01 / 1000 engine hours for EDTO beyond 180 min Rate computed based on world fleet data , on a 12-month rolling average This strongly implies that the reliability targets are empirical , not based on theoretical numbers . Is there a significant difference in the failure rate between engine models or manufacturers ? Page 56 of the presentation above has some data , but IMHO not enough to draw any conclusions . How rapidly has engine reliability improved ? Do we have a time trend of reliability numbers ? All I can say is it 's definitely improved massively , but I 'm not sure where to find the info .
A variable area nozzle helps to adjust the exit pressure of the combustion gases to ambient pressure . When they leave the turbine , the combustion gases have still some remaining pressure which is converted into speed by a convergent contour of the nozzle . If the combustion gases have enough pressure to be accelerated to supersonic speed , the nozzle is actually first convergent and then divergent to achieve the best acceleration of the flow . The convergent , subsonic flow accelerates until in the section with the smallest area , called the throat , the speed of sound is reached , and the following divergent section accelerates the now supersonic flow further until its pressure drops to ambient pressure . This con-di-nozzle needs to adjust both the cross section of the throat and the cross section of the exit area . Failure to get especially the throat area right will mean substantial thrust loss in operation . Afterburning engines need adaptable nozzles due to the different operating conditions in dry and wet mode , so they profit the most from adjustable nozzles . Reheating the exhaust gas means to increase its volume , so the nozzle needs to become wider to be properly matched . In general , if the exit speed of the combustion gases is supersonic , an adjustable nozzle is required . Even some early jets without afterburners had an adjustable nozzle : The central cone of the <URL> nozzle could be moved fore and aft , which changed the location of the bulbous aft section , helping to get the throat area right . Note in the picture below that the cross section widens again in the last part of the nozzle , which shows that the exhaust stream of the Jumo engine was mildly supersonic . Airliner engines would only gain little from an adjustable nozzle , and considering the mass increase of a fully adjustable nozzle , would in total have lower efficiency . Their exit speed is still subsonic - please note that the speed of sound in the heated combustion gas is much higher . At 500 ° C the speed of sound is almost 560 m/s . The variable area fan nozzle tries to do for the fan flow what the regular nozzle does for the core flow of a jet . So this is indeed a related concept . The picture below is copied from the US patent 2011/0302907A1 and shows an adjustable end part of the cowling ( crosshatched , 54 ) . Even though the exit speed of the fan flow is subsonic , its mass flow is much higher than that of the core in airliner engines . By adjusting the exit pressure by varying the exit area it can squeeze out some performance gains .
It says it <URL> : 1-1-8 . Navigational Aid ( NAVAID ) Service Volumes c. Standard Service Volume limitations do not apply to published IFR routes or procedures . So V267 has been flown at the MEA by an FAA plane , and it obviously met the signal accuracy requirements to be usable at the distances charted .
This is quite difficult to answer as some modern supersonic fighters do n't have just ailerons , but ' elevons ' , flaperons , tailerons and most of the time combine the movement of several control surfaces by computer to generate a desired effect . Large civilian aircraft tend to have more than one pair . A relatively smaller set closer to the wing tips for slower speeds and a general large aileron closer to the wing root . I would suggest you get a top-view of these aircraft . When you find our the length of the aircraft or wingspan you could derive it yourself through approximation .
No matter which kind of engine , you need some way to supply the engine with energy and you need some way to store that energy until you need it in flight . Short of going nuclear ( and there are some nontrivial engineering problems involved in designing a halfway safe nuclear reactor that you can put on a plane and keep it lightweight enough that flying it is n't pointless ) , chemical fuels for burning have the best available ratios of weight to energy stored . This is particularly important for aviation because more weight means more induced drag which means more thrust needed . Joule for joule , the efficiency of fuel-burning engines is not great , but the superior energy density of hydrocarbon fuel more than makes up for that and allows them to supply more useful thrust per kilogram of energy storage lifted than either batteries ( low losses , but very heavy ) or fuel cells ( medium losses , but require small-molecule fuel such as hydrogen or methane that still have markedly worse energy densities than kerosene ) . Since you speak about " exhaust gases " in the question , note that current aircraft derive at most a small fraction of their thrust from ejecting exhaust gases . Propeller planes do n't generally make use of the exhaust at all , and " jet " engines are practically always high-bypass turbofan engines where most of the energy from the combustion goes to drive the fan that blows intake air backwards without burning anything in it .
Helicopters are very inefficient in forward flight , for several reasons . Consider Glauert 's high speed assumption , i.e. the helicopter can be represented as an aircraft with a circular wing during high speed flight . Now , if you know anything about basic fixed-wing performance , you 'll realize immediately that this implies an aspect ratio just over 1 , which is awfully small . You may recall that for a fixed-wing aircraft , induced drag is inversely proportional aspect ratio -- so a very low aspect ratio means very high induced drag ! Induced drag is normally not a big deal for fixed-wing aircraft at high speed because it 's proportional to the square of the lift coefficient ( which decreases with speed ) , but ... In reality , the situation for a helicopter is even worse ! Glauert 's assumption assumes we have an ideal rotor , i.e. one that has a uniform induced velocity throughout . In practice , the inflow distribution over the rotor is highly non-uniform , especially at high speeds where the advancing side of the rotor is in a very different aerodynamic environment than the retreating side . Even on a very simple level , the " working area " swept on the retreating side is much smaller than that on the advancing side . Since lift needs to be balanced , momentum theory implies a higher induced velocity over the smaller area " worked " by the retreating side , and therefore a much higher induced drag at high speeds than an equivalent fixed wing aircraft . <URL> <URL> As the helicopter goes faster , and as the rotor turns more slowly , more of the retreating side blade will stall , which leads to a dramatic increase in drag . This starts on the inboard section of the blades , and moves outwards as the advance ratio ( ratio between flight speed and tip speed ) increases . In fact , the most inboard sections of the blade will even be in reversed flow -- and airfoils do n't work too well backwards . On the advancing side , things are bad too , but for different reasons . The profile drag of the rotor increases rapidly with speed . Moreover , as the advance ratio increases , the advancing tip Mach number also increases -- and as the blades get into the high transonic regime , local shocks begin to form and lead to even larger increases in drag . This can be delayed by slowing the rotor down , but that makes the problems on the retreating side even worse ! In general , it 's hard to develop airfoils that work well in both regimes . Outside of the rotor itself , the rotor hub is very draggy , between the main rotor shaft , pitch links , swashplate , hinges and blade grips , etc. . Helicopters usually have pretty " utilitarian " fuselages , as well , which are not so well streamlined . Plus , you have the tail rotor , which has most of the same problems as the main rotor . Back to the specific question of range , the Bregruet range equation says that the range of an aircraft is proportional to the lift-to-drag ratio and the speed of the aircraft . We 've already established that the L/D of a helicopter is pretty bad , especially at speed . So , the cruise speed is going to be pretty low and the L/D is going to be pretty low , so to sum up , the range is going to be really low . The tradeoff is that the helicopter is very good at hovering -- even amongst VTOL platforms , the helicopter is the most efficient . Speed and range are the price you pay for that capability .
end question
start question
Why is a 0 kt , vertical climb in a helicopter not safe near the ground ?
A vertical take-off , known as a " towering " or " confined area " take-off , is normally only used when it is not possible to take-off and remain in <URL> before gaining speed and climbing away . For example , your operational need is to land in a clearing in a forest or perhaps a field surrounded by tall trees . In order to take off again , you need to climb vertically until you 've cleared the tops of the trees so that you can transition forward to gain speed . You might need to use on at night ( because you can not see if there are any obstacles ahead ) or when taking off from snow or sand when your vision will be obscured , making a vertical take-off safer . It is technically defined as any take-off which requires you to climb vertically until out of ground effect . <URL> , I 've discussed the reasons why the power required to transition in ground effect to forward flight is much less than that required in a hover or a vertical climb out of ground effect . Before attempting a towering take off , the pilot should conduct a power check to establish that they have enough power to hover OGE ( out of ground effect ) . If you do have enough power to hover OGE , then in theory , you could continue to climb vertically until the reduction in engine power output or lift ( small effect ) as you gain altitude reduces the power margin to the point where further climb is not possible without exceeding limits . So , to the point of your question , why is it not safe ? The main reason is a scenario which is common to all helicopter operations , not just a towering take off . Climbing vertically to 90 feet is exactly as dangerous as coming to a 90 foot hover in an arrival from forward flight . This scenario is putting yourself into a shaded area of the <URL> , known by pilots as the " avoid curve " or perhaps more accurately the " dead man 's " curve . Importantly , this has nothing to do with how much power you have which of course , if the engine stops , suddenly becomes zero ! <URL> <URL> In short , test pilots , using a fully loaded helicopter over level , prepared surfaces , try to enter <URL> from different combinations of height and speed . At some point , they look at each other and say " a normal , well trained pilot , could only just auto-rotate safely from that combination of height and speed . They plot these points on a graph , join the dots and say " see those shaded areas , do n't go there " . It represents the areas where you will not have enough of the combination of potential and kinetic energy to make a safe landing . As you can see , the towering take-off puts you deep inside the avoid curve . This is the first safety concern . If the engine stops , you will almost certainly crash . I chose that curve , for an Enstrom F28 , because it nicely illustrates that if you continued climbing vertically to 300 feet , you would pop out of the top of the curve . From this height , you could auto-rotate safely . The second safety concern goes back to the power required . If you run out of power during the climb , the aircraft may start to descend into its own rotor vortex and can enter a <URL> . In a confined area , you have no options for escaping it and certainly , all but the best pilots will not avoid a crash or , at best , a very heavy landing . I 'm a relatively low time private pilot and when I do my power checks , I want to see at least a 10 % additional reserve over the measured power check . There have been times when pilots have landed in confined areas but have then not had the power to hover OGE . They have had to reduce the weight and/or wait for a lower temperature before trying again . The third safety concern is the need for good skills and training . When performing towering take-offs in typical sport and private helicopters , the pilot must be gentle on the controls . Relatively large or rapid control inputs cause large spikes in the power required . When you have plenty of speed , <URL> but when climbing vertically , you might be calling for more power than is available . You must climb OGE slowly with gentle collective increases and , when clear of the top of the trees or other obstacle , ease the cyclic forward gently . It is this last input which is especially risky . If you push the cyclic forward as you would in a normal take off , you could find yourself running out of power and settling into the top of the tree with nothing left to give . The safe way to do it is a slow climb but obviously , this leaves you in the shaded area for longer . I was always relieved when I cleared the trees and got back into normal flight and the temptation , which must be resisted , is to increase your climb rate to reduce the time on the curve but of course , this reduces your power margins . The general principle is to use the power required and no more . Gentle climb , gentle movements , be ready to pick up wind as you clear the obstacle , and you 'd better have made sure before you get there that it 's a head wind . The fourth safety concern ( and the last one to my knowledg
It is not legal to conduct skydiving into clouds , atleast in US . From 14 CFR <URL> : No person may conduct a parachute operation , and no pilot in command of an aircraft may allow a parachute operation to be conducted from that aircraft -- ( a ) Into or through a cloud , or ( b ) When the flight visibility or the distance from any cloud is less than that prescribed in the following table : <URL> Is it safe ? Probably . The chances of mid-air collision are pretty small , but they can happen <URL> . Midair collisions between skydivers and <URL> are rare , but not unheard of . There has also been reports of <URL> . So , its better to be safe .
I think you 're overlooking the primary reason pilots fly instrument approaches : the conditions do not permit flight by visual reference . The fact that a PAPI provides vertical guidance is more or less useless if you ca n't see it . Most ILS approaches involve a descent of at least 1500 ' from glideslope intercept . If you break out from the clouds at ILS minimums , you can be as low as 200 ' above the runway surface ; at 3 ° , that 's around 3/4 miles from the touchdown zone and the PAPI . It 's highly unlikely that the PAPI would be visible prior to that point , meaning the approach would be made with purely lateral guidance .
Forward flight is much more efficient than hovering . As airspeed builds , lift increases from " translational " lift as the air moves more horizontally over the disc . Since the relative airflow is more horizontal , the angle of attack for a given pitch angle is increased . The vortices and turbulence move behind and down from the helicopter so undisturbed air is drawn over the disc to be accelerated downwards to produce lift . Lift is more efficiently produced by accelerating a large mass by a small amount rather than a small mass by a large amount . It is more efficient to remain in ground effect and slowly increase speed to gain translational lift than to increase power to HOGE ( Hover Out of Ground Effect ) and attempt to translate . The problems you refer to are where an unwary pilot attempts to transition from HOGE whilst allowing the aircraft to climb or attempting to maintain height . Without enough power , the loss of ground effect before the benefits of translational lift are gained will result in a rapid descent back to earth ( as vortex ring state or settling with power is pretty much impossible to avoid ) or you overpitch and drag the RRPM ( rotor RPM ) down so low that you can not produce lift or even worse , stall the blades . Bottom line , it takes more power to establish positive climb out of ground effect than to gain translational lift in ground effect .
<URL> Source : <URL> . Origin of the theory <URL> , one of the famous glider pilots of the 70s , and himself a glider designer at <URL> , is at the origin of a controversy when he recommended not to turn with the ball centered , and especially when climbing in thermals . Mr Holighaus did see two problems with the perfectly coordinated turn : It does n't reduce drag as in straight flight . It reduces the aircraft margin for roll stability . I 'm not an expert in the field , so I 'll just rely on the <URL> published in Soaring Magazine and titled " Do you really want to keep the yaw string centered ? " Before going into Klaus Holighaus ' theory , let have a look at lateral stability . Roll stability : Dihedral angle Unless you want a very agile aircraft , an aircraft must have positive stability on the three axis , i.e. if the aircraft straight and level attitude is unsettled by some event , the aircraft must have a built-in tendency to cancel the effect of the perturbation and to return to its initial attitude . Roll stability is required to prevent the roll angle to increase automatically after a small unwanted roll input by the pilot or by a cross wind gust . The aircraft must return to a null roll angle automatically to prevent nasty consequences , including entering a spiraling descent . Roll stability is mostly provided by the <URL> of the wing as explained in <URL> In short : The dihedral angle uses the sideslip to create an opposite roll motion . No sideslip : No dihedral effect We know turning is not controlled by the rudder but by rolling the wing with the ailerons . But at some point the lowered wing aileron may also be deflected downward for turn rate control , and this deflection may happen to be excessive : When the lowered wing 's aileron is deflected downward , not only is its lift increased , but also its drag is increased , and a skidding turn will be induced . At the same time the lowered wing , being closer to the turn center , is flying slower than the raised one . Slow speed , high angle of attack and more drag for the aileron can induce a stall : If the lowered wing or its aileron stall , drag on this side is increased and the aircraft is likely to enter a dangerous spiral . However in most of the cases we can stop skidding : The skid can easily be corrected for by adding some top rudder to keep the skid ball centered . The solution implies to add drag to the rudder , which is not satisfactory from a performance perspective . Get the best of both worlds This is where the mild-slipping turn theory comes from : By turning with a slight slip instead of a perfectly coordinated turn : We keep the dihedral benefit to stabilize the aircraft around the roll axis . This is safer . The negative roll moment provided by the dihedral allows us to use less ailerons deflection , so less drag and more speed , and better climb in the thermal . We use less rudder , so even less drag , and even better climb . The article 's author adds this explanation about improving lift with the sideslip : Why slipping improves the climb in some gliders is not well understood . In generating lift , wings also generate spanwise flow , outward along the bottom and inward along the top of the wings . It is possible that there is flow separation near the tip of some circling sailplanes , and that slipping changes the spanwise flow enough to eliminate or reduce this . Separation can increase the drag significantly long before the tip actually stalls . The article also enter in the details of why this is different when winglets are used on the wing . Slipping may induce a stall instead . How much sideslip ? The optimum degree of sideslip depends to some degree on both the sailplane 's wingspan and dihedral angle . After many hours of flying my 16.6 meter ventus a and similar sailplanes , I find that my best overall circling performance and handling characteristics occur while the canopy mounted yaw string is deflected about 10 degrees on the high side of the turn ( a gentle sideslip actually ) . Yaw string vs ball The yaw string is also more accurately named the slip/skid string , as it does n't indicates a yaw angle but a quantity of skidding/slipping , like the ball . As @ymb1 commented , the string being on the canopy , ahead of the CG , its indication is exaggerated . In a coordinated turn , the ball of the slip/skid ball indicator will be centered while the yaw string will be already indicating a slight amount of slip . This error will be magnified with actual slip . The author estimates the actual degree of slip in his case is more accurately about half the indication of the string . See also <URL> : " exaggeration is also caused by the fuselage shape [ ... ] " .
In the US it is a license as well , that 's why they abbreviate it PPL and CPL. Canada appears to have no restrictions on flight training of non-Canadians other than proving your own with something like a passport , because your citizenship is shown on your license . See this <URL> as a starting point . If you need to reside in Canada during your training and you expect to take longer than 6 months , you will need to obtain a Student Visa to remain in the country legally . You could also use a Tourist Visa , neither of which would all you to work . If you are planning on returning to the US when you are not training , then the Visa would not be required . Converting a Canadian pilot license to a US pilot license is governed by <URL> . It does n't look very complicated , but it will take time and you must take one or more knowledge tests as well as schedule an appointment at your local FSDO for the final approval . Note also that while you do n't have to surrender your Canadian license when you convert to a US license , if you do not that means that you must stay current based on both the US and Canadian rules . I suggest you very carefully study the requirements and do the full math . Once you get started on one path it wo n't be easy to switch to the other if you then realize it was a mistake . Interesting question , BTW . It was fun researching the answer . :)
There are 7 modes of warning Mode 1 . Large descent rate near terrain . Gear and flap position not a factor in the warning . Mode 2 . Large closure rate with terrain . Mode 2A . Occurs for a large closure rate if the flaps are not in the landing configuration and glideslope deviation is more than 2 dots . Mode 2B . Alerts for a large closure rate if the flaps are in the landing configuration . Mode 3 . Alerts for a large altitude loss during takeoff or during a missed approach with the flaps not in the landing configuration or landing gear not down . Mode 4 . Alerts when the airplane is too close to the terrain and the landing gear or flaps are not in the landing configuration Mode 4A alert when the landing gear is not down and gives the aural messages TOO LOW GEAR at low airspeeds , or TOO LOW TERRAIN at high airspeeds . Mode 4B alerts when the landing gear is down and the flaps are not in landing configuration and gives the aural messages TOO LOW FLAPS if the airplane is at low airspeed , or TOO LOW TERRAIN at high airspeeds . Mode 5 alerts when the airplane goes below the glideslope during approach if the landing gear is down . Mode 6 gives aural callouts when the airplane descends through set altitudes with the landing gear down . It gives callouts like MINIMUMS or DECISION HEIGHT . Mode 7 gives windshear warnings . Every one of these modes is altitude , speed and aircraft configuration dependent . In the Enhanced GPWS , these triggers are also changed based on the position of the aircraft . Regulatory requirement <URL> Technical requirements <URL>
If some parts of the airfoil create lift and others a downforce , the center of pressure can be outside of the airfoil 's chord at low lift coefficients . This condition is fulfilled for cambered airfoils , airfoils with a deflected flap and especially for rear loading airfoils , which have low camber in the front and high camber in the rear part . Supercritical airfoils meet this last condition . In airfoil theory , an airfoil creates lift and a moment , because the lift is assumed to attack at the quarter chord point . This point is special because here the moment coefficient does not change with the angle of attack ( at least in the inviscid , linear potential theory , which is sufficiently close to reality at large Reynolds numbers to be useful ) . In reality , positive camber will cause the resulting lift force to act aft of the quarter chord point , and the pitching moment is negative . When lift becomes small and the pitching moment stays constant , the lever arm of that small lift needs to become large to achieve the same moment , and this is when the center of pressure can slip out of the airfoil 's chord . Below you see the result from XFRL5 V6 .0.5 . I plotted the local center of pressure as a green line . It 's elevation over the plane of the wing shows the amount of lift locally created , and the location in streamwise direction shows that it leaves the local chord when lift becomes low . Note that when moving out in spanwise direction the location jumps from far aft of the airfoil to far ahead when the local lift turns negative . At the point of no local lift you have a division by zero error , patched over here by a straight connection between the results from the single panels . <URL> Location of the local center of pressure on a swept wing ( own work ) . When angle of attack is increased , all additional lift has the Birnbaum distribution , so the local center of pressure moves towards the quarter-chord location .
It 's an illusion that the blades appear to be going slowly . It 's actually a well known effect called the <URL> . Essentially the rotor is spinning at close to an even multiple of the camera 's framerate divided by the number of rotors . This means that between frames the blades have moved a full quarter rotation ( or a multiple of that ) . Creating the illusion that the rotor is moving more slowly that it actually is .
How does an oversight like this exist for such an extended period of time ? Because it does n't get reported . Is this something that should be reported ? Yes , it should be reported , otherwise this oversight will exist for an extended period of time . This <URL> contains a link that should be followed to <URL> . Somewhere down those links you 'll find plethora of forms and rather confusing texts which seem not really helpful when you want to report a missing VASI . That brings us back to the answer on your first question . Update : In the comments , Kevin Cathcart pointed out the <URL> which is the appropriate form to flag the problem . Alternatively you can contact the NFDC ( National Flight Data Center ) via phone at 1 - (866) 295-8236 . Does this create a hazard to potential IFR traffic ? Whether it is a potential hazard depends mainly on the presence of other source of vertical guidance . Is there an ILS / gideslope active ? No vertical guidance at all is a safety risk in low visibility conditions .
Yes and No . The definition of a stall is that the airfoil stops generating lift , which happens when the critical angle of attack is reached . In an airplane , this happens during normal flight by pitching up until the critical angle of the airfoil is reached . In a helicopter , aft cyclic ( " pitching up " in an airplane ) will only serve to make the helicopter climb and slow down until it reaches equilibrium in the new attitude . Helicopters , however , can suffer from what is called " retreating blade stall , " when the blade is at full pitch on the retreating side of the rotor : <URL> This does n't happen under normal circumstances , but there are four factors which contribute to retreating blade stall : fast -- close to Vne heavy -- at max gross weight hot -- above 35C high -- at high altitude Retreating blade stall is considered an emergency , and can be recovered from by reducing power .
Thankfully , I never had to make this choice . In my training I learned to stay in the plane and flare at the height of the treetops , then let the plane sink into the branches and have them stop and suspend the aircraft . The fuselage is quite effective as a protective shell , and up on top the branches are thin and flexible . Use the parachute only to hoist yourself down from the stricken plane , if necessary . <URL> Two-seater after landing in trees at Boberg glider port ( picture <URL> )
Thrust vectoring is for flying outside the " normal " envelope ( which is characterized by attached flow ) . Airliners should really never leave this envelope , so they are perfectly fine with regular control surfaces . If you want to add thrust vectoring , it would make most sense if the engines are at the back of the airplane . On most airliners , it is really better to put them on and ahead of the wings , because in this location they help both with flutter damping ( mass ahead of the elastic line helps ) and bending relief . Putting the engine mass right where lift is created is better than carrying stresses all around the airframe , which would be the case with rear-mounted engines . The redundancy point is valid , but it would be more helpful to have redundant control surfaces , and this is exactly what airliners have . At some point , every airplane has to come down for a landing , which requires to throttle the engines . No thrust , no control ! Most extreme case : If one tail surface breaks off , I wonder if thrust vectoring would be up to the job of trimming the aircraft even with cruise thrust . Not only have the raw forces to be sufficient , the reaction time to control setting changes has to be quick enough to suppress oscillations . I am sure , however , that thrust vectoring will certainly not suffice in all flight phases . Thrust vectoring is perfect for situations at high angle of attack where you quickly want to point the nose of your aircraft at your adversary , so you get lock-on first . This is quite different from what an airliner has to do .
Pitch is measured with respect to a plane orthogonal to the local weight ¹ force , which is properly called the horizontal . That is used because : It is equipotential plane of the gravitational field . Moving around it wo n't change your potential energy . Is always well defined . Is smooth and locally flat ( it is still a spherical surface globally , of course ) . Can be measured by averaging inertial forces on board without external reference . It is called simply horizon , presumably because looking at the horizon is the easiest way to find that plane by human senses . Using ground , which is not flat , as reference would n't work . Aircraft need to fly mostly along the equipotential plane , because climbing to a higher one requires adding more energy by the engines and descending below means the aircraft accelerates and needs to dissipate ( = waste ) the energy . So following terrain would require quite a bit more energy than flying horizontal . Plus it would be very complicated . ¹ By weight I mean the sum of gravity and centrifugal force in the reference frame rotating with Earth .
I 'd recommend reviewing Chart 5-23 from the PA-44 POH - Climb performance one engine operating - gear up for specific numbers based on aircraft weight and atmospherics . If you 're not seeing a positive rate of climb at your best rate of climb , single engine airspeed , then you 're not going to see it at the best angle of climb airspeed single engine either . By definition , Vyse is the best rate of climb that you 're going to see on a single engine ; any other airspeed , including Vxse , is going to give you a lower rate of climb , or greater rate of descent if a positive rate is not possible . And attempting to acquire and hold Vxse you 're getting close to the reverse side of the power curve , combined with ever decreasing rudder authority , it would be easy to have the aircraft drop below Vmc and depart from controlled flight .
Lead lag is caused by the blades speeding up and slowing down as they flap up and down . The blade on the advancing side experiences an airflow equal to it 's speed plus the forward speed of the helicopter . The blade on the retreating side experiences airflow equal to the speed of the blade minus the forward speed of the helicopter . This causes <URL> . To counter this , the blades can flap up and down around the flapping hinges . The blade on the advancing side flaps up , reducing the angle of attack and therefore the lift generated . The blade on the retreating side flaps down , increasing the angle of attack and therefore increasing lift . See this video at around 1:30 to see <URL> . This is a gyrocopter , but you can <URL> at 0:39 and 1:17 . Due to <URL> , the blade flapping up speeds up as it 's centre of gravity moves inwards toward the rotor hub . Since the rotor is turning at a constant speed , the blade must move forward around the lead/lag hinge . In a similar way , the blade flapping down slows down so lags . The blades will hunt forward and backwards from the neutral position in a sine wave as the rotor rotates . Lead/lag dampers reduce the force of this hunting . A variation of flapping hinges ( independent hinges for each blade ) is a teetering hinge on 2 blade helicopters where the hinge is connected to each blade . If one blade rises , the other must fall and vice-versa . The entire rotor disc " teeters " on top of the drive shaft . This is known as a <URL> and as far as I know , is used on all 2 blade helicopters . In semi-rigid and rigid heads , the overall effect of the blades speeding up and slowing down cancels out in the complete cycle of rotation and other mechanisms are used to reduce the hunting loads . Imagine a 4 blade rigid rotor . 2 blades are trying to speed up the rotor and 2 are trying to slow it down in equal amounts . One serious side effect of lead/lag on fully articulated heads is <URL> . Since the blades can move forwards and backwards , it is possible for the blades to get closer together on one side than on the other , especially when the helicopter lands with a roll angle , so one gear hits the ground first . This shifts the centre of balance away from the centre of rotation which can induce a wobble of the rotor head , which translates into a vertical " bounce " vibration at the landing gear . If conditions are right ( or wrong , depending on your view point ) , the resonance can be amplified by the natural resonance frequency of the helicopters landing gear and can lead , if allowed to continue , to the <URL> . If you think that helicopter blades are quite rigid , <URL> .
Climbing further while cruising is saving fuel , not wasting it . First , every airplane has an <URL> for most economical cruise . If it loses mass ( due to fuel consumed ) , it needs to adjust either its altitude or its speed to keep that angle of attack . The goal is to keep dynamic pressure , the product of air density and the square of airspeed , constant . Since you want to reach your destination in the shortest time , climbing into less dense air is the better option . Secondly , gas turbines need less fuel per unit of thrust when flying in colder air . As long as the plane stays in the <URL> , <URL> when it flies in colder air .
KTUS does n't have a <URL> , but I can think of a couple of alternatives ( other people may have more ) . First , file a composite ( VFR to IFR ) flight plan . See <URL> section 5-1-7 : Flight plans which specify VFR operation for one portion of a flight , and IFR for another portion , will be accepted by the FSS at the point of departure . If VFR flight is conducted for the first portion of the flight , pilots should report their departure time to the FSS with whom the VFR/IFR flight plan was filed ; and , subsequently , close the VFR portion and request ATC clearance from the FSS nearest the point at which change from VFR to IFR is proposed . Second , depart VFR and ask for a <URL> when you need it . But this is n't ideal if you know that you 'll be in IMC ( or in the flight levels ) at some point and you want to make sure your clearance is n't delayed . Third , depart IFR and just ask ATC for whatever handling and routing you want . If weather conditions are good and there is n't much traffic , there 's a good chance they 'll let you do what you want . Considering the terrain , though , I would n't do it unless you 're familiar with the area . And of course there 's a chance that ATC wo n't allow it anyway . Finally , although this does n't answer the question you could just fly the ODP . I 've never been to Tucson but the airport elevation is 2643 ' and right now the temperature is 32C and the altimeter setting is 30.10 , that means the density altitude is about 5000 ' . And since you 're departing to the east ( more or less ) it looks like you 'll need to get to at least 11000 ' ( IFR altitude ) because of terrain , so you have to climb 8000 ' with limited space to do it and with reduced performance because of the high DA . I do n't know what you fly , but climb performance in those conditions is n't great in many light piston aircraft - at least if they 're normally aspirated - and a climb in the hold seems like a good way to get up there safely . Of course , if you know the area well and your aircraft is up to it , then things would look different .
The flight instructor certificates held at that point provide all the same privileges . This is not true . A ground instructor certificate is valid to give ground training for all aircraft ... airplane , helicopter , glider , balloon , etc. . A flight instructor must have those ratings on their certificate . Record keeping requirements also differ between the two certificates . <URL> requires the flight instructor to keep a record of all knowledge test endorsements to include the student name , date , kind of test and result . The ground instructor has no such requirement . The flight instructor must also have an advanced or instrument ground instructor certificate to qualify for a gold seal .
A helicopter develops lift by accelerating air downwards through its rotors . This relies on the air above the rotors being slow enough for the rotors to accelerate that air enough to provide sufficient lift . When hovering in still air , the incoming air has zero velocity relative to the helicopter . While of course the air is conserved , in a large volume of air , the downwash is able to diffuse much more , and much of it does not immediately circulate back up above the helicopter . If the helicopter were enclosed in a sphere , the smaller the sphere , the less the air would be able to diffuse . The downwash would circulate back to the top of the sphere , where the rotors would take that air in again . The rotors would be less effective at accelerating the air that is coming in with significant velocity , just as a propeller develops less thrust with increasing forward speed . Successful hover would depend on the helicopter being able to develop lift at a rate of circulation where the air can slow down enough for the rotors to be effective . This seems like a experiment manageable enough that someone could try it at home ...
end question
start question
61 vs 141 : What 's better for future US ATP ?
Either one is fine , though I 'd make sure you seek a good instructor for a part 61 and follow a part 141 syllabus ( available through ASA , Jeppesen , King Schools , etc. ) when you do yours to verify you covered all the bases . At that stage of your training , future employers really wo n't care that much whether you did your training as a 61 or 141 student . They are going to be much more concerned with your professional flying record and later certification and checkrides .
This is how I explain it , hopefully it helps more than hinders ! Heading : This is where my nose points - and seeing as my nose is attached to my head , this is where my head ( and thus my machine ) is pointing relative to North . Course : This is my INTENDED path of travel that I have calculated taking into consideration winds , variation and declination . Track : This is my ACTUAL path traveled over ground - just like a set of tracks I would leave behind in the snow or sand , relative to North Bearing : This is the angle between the location of an object , machine or destination and either : - my heading . This is called ' Relative Bearing ' . - or magnetic north ( direction toward the magnetic north pole ) . This is called ' Magnetic Bearing ' . So from the picture , if I take off from Springfield enroute to Shelbyville . My course ( the intended path ) is due East , or 090 degrees . I notice my winds are Southerly ( from 183 degrees / to 003 degrees ) , so I make my heading 095 degrees to compensate for wind drift ( or 5 degrees crab into the wind ) . If my calculations are bang on , my track should be the same as my course , however I misjudged the winds , finding out my resulting track over the ground is 081 degrees - I must correct ( by increasing ) my heading to get back on course . Now with some airports , the navaids ( NDB or VOR ) are not directly at the airfield but some distance away , so if I wanted to either fly directly to the NDB or figure out my position in space during enroute nav checks , I would take the bearing to the NDB/VOR either relative to my heading or relative to magnetic north to find its position . Hope this helps .
The difference is between the definition itself . Free Flight : Free flight is a developing air traffic control method that uses no centralized control ( e.g. air traffic controllers ) . Instead , parts of airspace are reserved dynamically and automatically in a distributed way using computer communication to ensure the required separation between aircraft . This new system may be implemented into the U.S. air traffic control system in the next decade . [ citation needed ] Its potential impact on the operations of the national airspace system is disputed , however . This effectively means that , if a part of space is reserved for free flight , you can effectively do anything with your flight plan . Moreover this reserved space would change dynamically , so if there is an approaching aircraft nearby. , your free flight space changes to accommodate free flight space for the other flight as well . Both of the planes would have DIFFERENT free flight space , and they can adjust their flight plan just in their own flight space . This eliminates the need for ATC completely . Free Route Airspace : Free Route Airspace ( FRA ) is a specified airspace within which users may freely plan a route between a defined entry point and a defined exit point . Subject to airspace availability , the route can be planned directly from one to the other or via intermediate ( published or unpublished ) way points , without reference to the ATS route network . Within this airspace , flights remain subject to air traffic control . Here , the Airspace allotment remains under the control of the ATC , which allocates single space to multiple planes , and there one can decide which path to take . Here , inherently there is a possibility of overlapping routes ( Because of the same airspace being allotted to multiple planes ) , and thats why , some routes are allowed in this space , and some are not .
I 've gotten this question enough times to look up the regulations and answer my own question :) <URL> lays it out quite nicely . Particularly section B ( 3 ) : ( 3 ) Notwithstanding paragraph ( b ) ( 2 ) of this section , any aircraft which was not originally certificated with an engine-driven electrical system or which has not subsequently been certified with such a system installed , balloon or glider may conduct operations in the airspace within 30 nautical miles of an airport listed in appendix D , section 1 of this part provided such operations are conducted - ( i ) Outside any Class A , Class B , or Class C airspace area ; and ( ii ) Below the altitude of the ceiling of a Class B or Class C airspace area designated for an airport or 10,000 feet MSL , whichever is lower ; and Where I see the balloons is definitely outside of the Class B airspace and below 10,000 feet MSL , so the answer is , no , they do n't need a transponder .
That is up to the civil aviation authority , which in most countries is distinct agency from the investigation board ( in USA this is FAA ) , to decide . They will take into consideration how likely the problem is to repeat , how big risk it would be if it does ¹ and as secondary criteria how much work the fix is and how much it will cost . What must be done will be published in an <URL> . If the problem is serious , they will prohibit any further flights except for testing purposes until fix is installed . And remember the fix may not be known yet . For example after the 787 battery fires , FAA published airworthiness directive that prohibited operations until " approved fix is installed " couple of days after the third incident when they just started to discuss what the fix should be with Boeing and whole fleet remained grounded for almost half a year until the modified batteries were ready . On the other end of the scale a problem may not necessarily result in mandatory change at all . Many issues simply result in mandating additional inspections , shortening intervals between inspections or shortening maximum service life of some component , which may be relaxed again if the manufacturer develops an improved version of the component and the operator installs it , neither of which is mandatory . Even quite severe problems may just be solved with inspections , because most components have inherently limited life and the problem just indicated higher wear then originally anticipated . ¹ It is important to remember that the investigators do n't only investigate crashes , but they get reports of all incidents , which means any failure where there was elevated risk . They then investigate those where they consider the risk significant or that are more common then expected . So often things are investigated where the probability of fatal outcome is low . In such cases the investigators will only consider safety and will publish a safety recommendation , but the aviation authority has to also consider other practical aspects and may choose not to enforce it .
Where can the requirements for US aircraft registration be found ? The registration procedure is outlined in <URL> . See also the <URL> . 3 . The owner of an aircraft must apply to the Aircraft Registration Branch , P.O. Box 25504 , Oklahoma City , Oklahoma 73125-0504 , to obtain a certificate of registration . The applicant must submit an Aircraft Registration Application , AC Form 8050-1 , accompanied by evidence of ownership and a $ 5 registration fee . Requirements for registration of aircraft are contained in the <URL> ( For sale by the Superintendent of Documents , U.S. Government Printing Office , Washington , DC 20402 . ) Basically , the registrant ( whether an individual or a corporation , trustee , etc. , all of which are defined in Part 47 ) must be able to prove legal ownership of the airplane . What is the penalty for flying an aircraft without a valid registration ? The violator would be subject to any of the <URL> : administrative action ( a " Warning Notice " or " Letter of Correction " which goes on your record ) , reexamination ( " 709 ride " ) , certification action ( suspension or revocation ) , or civil/criminal penalties . The exact penalty would likely depend on the circumstances : whether the violation was intentional and the degree of the pilot 's negligence under the FARs . What should someone do if they believe an aircraft to be operating without valid registration , and how could they determine this ? The <URL> reporting FAR violations by calling the FAA 's toll-free telephone number , 1-866-TELL-FAA .
According to <URL> , Air Traffic Organisation Policy , section 4-4-2 there are several requirements from both the FAA and FCC . The FAA requirements are ( paraphrased from the JO ) : Comply with FCC regulations ( remember that the FCC is responsible for radio communication technical regulations , not the FAA ) Get FAA approval " to avoid possible duplication or conflict with air − ground call signs assigned on a national basis to other aircraft operators " The FCC requirements are in <URL> ( not 87.115 as the JO says ) : ( a ) Aircraft station . Identify by one of the following means : ( 1 ) Aircraft radio station call sign . ( 2 ) The type of aircraft followed by the characters of the registration marking ( " N " number ) of the aircraft , omitting the prefix letter " N. " When communication is initiated by a ground station , an aircraft station may use the type of aircraft followed by the last three characters of the registration marking . Notwithstanding any other provision of this section , an aircraft being moved by maintenance personnel from one location in an airport to another location in that airport may be identified by a station identification consisting of the name of the company owning or operating the aircraft , followed by the word " Maintenance " and additional alphanumeric characters of the licensee 's choosing . ( 3 ) The FAA assigned radiotelephony designator of the aircraft operating organization followed by the flight identification number . ( 4 ) An aircraft identification approved by the FAA for use by aircraft stations participating in an organized flying activity of short duration . In other words , your call sign must be approved in advance by the FAA , otherwise you ca n't legally use it per FCC regulations . In reality , if you call up ATC as Little Piggy 27 you 'll either get a laugh and a " no , seriously ? " or - in the worst case - you 'll just annoy them . There are also military call signs in use but I know nothing about them . I do remember being in the pattern while an Air National Guard aircraft out of Memphis , TN was doing touch and goes using the call sign Elvis 1 . But I have no idea how that call sign was set up between the ANG and FAA .
The 'N' numbers you 're referring to are <URL> . The FARs ( Federal Aviation Regulations ) specifically mention registration as not being required for military aircraft : <URL> ( b ) No person may operate an aircraft that is eligible for registration under 49 U.S.C. 44101-44104 , unless the aircraft -- ( 1 ) Has been registered by its owner ; ( 2 ) Is carrying aboard the temporary authorization required by § 47.31 ( c ) ; or ( 3 ) Is an aircraft of the Armed Forces The FAA issues these registrations in accordance with its responsibilities under the <URL> , which required ( in <URL> ) that : Every aircraft engaged in international air navigation shall bear its appropriate nationality and registration marks . As per the above-cited 14 CFR 47.3 , though , the U.S. specifically requires that all eligible aircraft have registrations unless it 's either a military aircraft or it has temporary authorization under 14 CFR 47.31 ( c ) .
According to the <URL> ( the Flight Navigator Cert is rarely issued any more to my understanding but none the less ) . The standard unit of distance for navigation is the nautical mile ( NM ) . The NM can be defined as either 6,076 feet or 1 minute of latitude It goes on to talk about speed Closely related to the concept of distance is speed , which determines the rate of change of position . Speed is usually expressed in miles per hour ( mph ) , this being either SM per hour or NM per hour . If the measure of distance is NM , it is customary to speak of speed in terms of knots . Thus , a speed of 200 knots and a speed of 200 NM per hour are the same thing . It is incorrect to say 200 knots per hour unless referring to acceleration . It seems it comes down to what you measure distance in , then simply report the appropriate speed units . Most pilots will calculate ( and talk in units ) based on the instrumentation in their plane . Some airspeed indicators contain both knots and MPH however its not uncommon for them to contain only a single unit ( generally older GA planes is where I have seen MPH instruments ) . POH 's will generally contain what ever unit the air speed indicators in the original build of the plane contained ( some POHs will contain both units ) . Just to show some examples , <URL> while say a <URL> . For example this indicator contains both units . <URL> ( <URL> ) In the end of the day its most important that the units are not mixed up and or used interchangeably . As for the errors in airspeeds this is one of the reasons that air speed indicators have color queues to indicate things like stall range , flap extend range and smooth air operating range . This way if a pilot does accidentally confuse units there are other things to rely on . ( Side note there are some important speeds that do NOT appear on airspeed indicators that should always be noted ) . - Edit - To answer the comments below . I report distance in NM since thats what foreflight uses on its ruler function as well as its ring function ( at least the way I have it set up ) . Most plotters I have seen are in NM so even if I had a paper map I would be reporting NM as well . Im not sure the FAA has official declared that Knots are the only acceptable unit . MPH airspeed indicators are still considered air worthy so they must at least accept it on that level . There have been pushes to standardize instrumentation after the issues caused by the eastern vs. western attitude indicators but with the advent of glass cockpits most of these things can now be configurable in software and changed by a simple setting . The FAR 's ( such as 91.117 ) report speed in both KTS and MPH and that is the letter of the law from the FAA .
In modern aircraft cabin , close to half of the cabin air is recircualted . As this <URL> : The cabin air system is designed to operate most efficiently by delivering approximately 50 percent outside air and 50 percent filtered , recirculated air . The AIVC also notes in <URL> : In early commercial jet aircraft , passenger cabins were ventilated with 100 % outside air . In more recent jet aircraft , approximately 50 % of the ventilation air is outside air and the remaining 50 % is filtered recirculated cabinair . The reason for using recirculated air is quite simple - fuel savings . From the document <URL> : At the beginning of the commercial jet airliner age , jet airplanes did not have cabin air recirculation systems , ... The primary reason was that early jets were powered by highly inefficient turbojet engines . As engine technology progressed , turbofans were developed with a core bypass ratio of approximately 2 to 1 . Fuel economy improved and the cost of engine bleed air relative to overall fuel consumption was still sufficiently small to make 100 % bleed air to the passenger cabin cost effective . As modern turbofan engines with high 5 to 1 bypass ratios were developed , fuel consumption to provide engine thrust decreased . However , the fuel consumption relative to extracting bleed air dramatically increased , almost in direct proportion to the higher bypass ratio . For a 767 with P&amp;W 4000 engines , the percent increase in fuel consumption due to bleed air only would be almost four times higher than an equivalently sized turbojet for the same amount of bleed air . <URL> Increase in bleed air fuel consumption with modern jet engines ; image from <URL> by Elwood H. Hun et . al. .
The best research on this is done with real crews &amp; expensive simulators , and I think their results are exactly the proposition you 're looking at , namely that the callout " V1 " needs to be said something like a second or two before the actual latest-point-of-first-action to reject the takeoff . The reason that we ca n't just say , how long does it take me to respond to the other pilot 's callout routinely is , it 's a different world between the routine stuff and the abort decision close to V1 . As an example , if I 'm flying an approach , I know when the callout 100 feet above minimums is coming . If I 'm not badly tunnel-vision on some isolated part of my scan ( very , very rare when you 're at that point in an approach ... not impossible but quite rare ) , I can see the altimeter unwinding toward the minimums bug , and so when the other pilot makes the callout , I 'm ready to reply " going outside . " And I know that a few moments after that , he 's going to call out " minimums " and I have my next callout to make . No surprises , and if you measured how promptly I respond to his callouts , you 'll probably get results showing that I 'm pretty prompt . Compare that with the one takeoff in thousands where things are getting weird close to V1 , and I 'm actually processing the " is this actually worth stopping for now that we 're high speed " decision . I 've never had to do that in the actual aircraft , but talking to guys who have , there is some very real time compression -- events happen fast . On a normal takeoff , I 'm almost always aware of exactly when the " V1 " callout is coming . But if it is " that dark &amp; stormy night " and I 'm trying to sort out the difference between fluxing indication , minor burp , or beginning of an engine failure , that will be the time when the " V1 " call WILL catch me by surprise , and how quickly I react to it &amp; remove my hand from the throttles may not correlate to how quickly I 've taken it off during the last 999 takeoffs . On a normal takeoff , my habit is a fairly spring-loaded motion where my hand comes up and away from the throttles immediately at the " V1 " call , so that if we get the proverbial big bang , lotsa yaw , and the fire bell right after the callout , I 'd be able to catch myself &amp; not go reaching back toward the throttles to initiate an abort-after-V1 . So on those days , you might could get away with pushing the callout closer in time to the latest-first-action-to-stop point . But not every day is going to be like that , so the Boeing procedures build in the greater level of reaction time . Because taking the aircraft flying even when you had another second or two that you could have stopped it , is generally ( looking at the historical track record of takeoffs rejected &amp; takeoffs continued ) less dangerous than stopping the aircraft a couple of seconds after you should n't have . References : <URL> <URL> This has some good time numbers for you
Fuel The fuel consumption of the A380 is about 11 metric tonnes per hour . With a fuel price of <URL> , this results in \ $ 11000 per flight hour . Amortization An A380 will cost about \ $ 350M . The aircraft will be used for about 25 to 30 years , but let 's assume the amortization period is about 20 years with a residual value of \ $ 50M . With an interest rate of 5 % , you would pay about \ $ 24M per year . That is about \ $ 2740 per hour , or \ $ 0.76 per second , flying or not . Assuming a usage of 60 % , taking into account turn around times at the gate and maintenance downtime , it boils down to \ $ 3915 per flight hour . Crew Captain costs <URL> . Let 's assume they fly about 60 hours per month , the combined flight deck crew cost is about \ $ 350 per flight hour for the base salary . Another \ $ 80 needs to be added for allowances bringing the total to \ $ 430 per flight hour . Cabin crew rate would be around $ 40 per hour , so for 20 crew the cost will be \ $ 800 per flight hour . Also allowances for overnight stays and hotel costs need to be taken into account Airport charges These vary extremely between airports . You can basically break the costs down into costs related to the aircraft , the passengers and various taxes by the government . Aircraft cost usually are related to the Maximum Take-off Mass ( MTOM ) of the aircraft and the noise category . A Boeing 747-400 , while less heavy than an A380 , will in some cases be more expensive due to the higher noise level . Many airports differentiate between peak and off-peak hour landings . I ca n't find accurate data for the A380 but an old table that I have for the Boeing 747-400 suggest that total the cost vary between about \ $ 6000 to \ $ 25000 . Overflight charges Fees are levied by countries whose territory is flown over , mainly to cover ATC cost . The cost is typically based on the distance flown and the MTOW . For a 747-400ER over Europe , the fee is on average <URL> . Assuming an average speed of about 900km/h , the hourly cost is about 1300EUR/h . These costs are lower over the high seas and over the US . Rough total Based on the above , the total will be between \ $ 22,000 and \ $ 41,000 per hour .
In the light aircraft world there are a few trade-offs to consider . The short version : Single-Engine Pros : Simplicity One engine means fewer controls , a simpler fuel system , simpler vacuum system , simpler electrical system , etc. . Operational cost Only one engine to feed , so you spend less on - fuel &amp; oil per flight . Maintenance cost Only one engine to maintain - One set of spark plugs &amp; cylinders , One engine to overhaul . Single-Engine Cons : No redundancy : You have one engine , if it fails you 're a glider . Singles generally tend to have less spacious cabins than twins . Twin-Engine pros : Redundancy If you lose an engine the other will give you a chance to get to a landing site . Cabin space If you step up beyond " twin trainers " you can get a very nice cabin in a piston twin . Equipment Again , if you step up beyond the " twin trainers " twin-engine planes tend to be " traveling aircraft " , so they often come with nice features like deice/anti-ice equipment . Twin-Engine cons : Operating costs Two engines to feed ( fuel &amp; oil costs double ) . Maintenance costs Two engines mean twice the cylinders , twice the spark plugs , etc. . Complexity The redundancy you can get in a twin comes at a price : Synchronizing the propellers , a more complex fuel system ( crossfeed ) , paralleling alternators , vacuum system failover , etc. . Short and Soft field performance can be lacking . Failure of an engine <URL> . In addition to the operational considerations there are some other practical items to consider : twin-engine aircraft require a multi-engine rating ( which means more training time ) . Twins will also generally be more expensive to purchase/rent ( and may be more difficult to rent when away from home ) , and will likely cost more to insure ( particularly for low-time pilots ) .
First of all it depends on what type of " employee " and if the jumpseat is in the cockpit or the cabin . According to the answers to <URL> there are no regulations on who may sit in a cabin jumpseat as long as it meets the specifications set out in FAR § 121.211 for proper airline seats . So the airline is free to set policy for cabin jumpseats . As for jumpseats on the flight deck the restrictions are quite stringent . If the employee is a pilot FAR § 121.547 ( c ) ( 3 ) allows off-duty pilots to fly in a jumpseat on the flight deck , so there would be no need to make them an active crew member . FAR § 121.547 ( a ) ( 1 ) allows an on-duty flight attendant to fly in a jumpseat on the flight deck . The person would have to be a certified flight attendant , so you could n't just make any employee a crew member . Remember also that flight attendants have hours of service restrictions , so any time they are considered on-duty has to comply with the h.o.s. regulations . Certain other types of employees are allowed to fly in the flight deck , but they have to be performing a specific function on the flight that requires their presence in th cockpit . For example , a mechanic could fly in the cockpit if he 's there to monitor something on the aircraft . A flight dispatcher could be on the flight deck if they are observing flight operations as a part of training . Even some persons who may be given access to the cockpit for operational need , like air marshals or training personnel , still must have a seat available in the cabin . So they ca n't put someone in the cockpit just to transport them from place to place and they could n't just plop a salesman or a ticket agent there and say they are a " crew member . " There are regulations stipulating the minimum number of flight attendants on a flight but not a maximum number . So , technically they could make a flight attendant part of the crew , but if that person was just listed as a crew member and was n't actually performing any duties , the FAA would certainly interpret that as a violation .
The flying boom method uses a rigid boom which is " flown " by an operator in coordination with the pilot in order to make a connection with a receptacle on the second aircraft . The boom is retracted when not in use . Though <URL> if it comes in contact with an aircraft , <URL> . The probe and drogue method uses a trailing hose with a basket on the end . Pilots will guide a probe on their aircraft into the basket to connect with the hose . The hoses are retracted when not in use . Though the crew has less control of the drogue , which <URL> , there is less danger to the aircraft than from a boom , and it could allow the aircraft to stay further away from the tanker . The boom method was developed early on in the Cold War , when <URL> . They needed a method that would transfer fuel as fast as possible in order to reduce the time it took to transfer the large amounts of fuel needed . Because the boom is rigid , it is capable of a higher transfer rate . The importance of bombers meant that SAC got their way , and the KC-135 fleet was equipped with booms . Today , almost all US Air Force planes capable of aerial refueling use the boom system . The US Navy on the other hand , along with most aircraft in other countries , uses the drogue system . Though this method is not capable of the high transfer rates of a boom , it is much more flexible . A refueling aircraft may only be fitted with one boom , and this requires extra design work and integration with the fuselage . The drogue system , on the other hand , is more simple , and does not need a dedicated operator . This means that it can be more easily fitted to the refueling aircraft , even <URL> , and larger aircraft can have multiple drogues . Another point is that smaller aircraft such as fighters are not capable of receiving fuel at the full rate the boom provides , so they have less benefit from the system . Although a boom can have a <URL> , this still commits the tanker to one aircraft at a time and one type of system per flight . Also , aircraft such as helicopters <URL> . When the Air Force was looking at a replacement for its tanker fleet in the early 2000s , a <URL> to determine what standard the new tanker should support . The report suggests some options for the best combination of methods . In the end , the Air Force selected the <URL> for the contract , which will include both the boom and the drogue options for refueling . This will provide better support to aircraft from other branches or countries , while maintaining support of the existing aircraft that use a boom .
There are some areas where the 1090 MHz frequency is already very busy . The area around Frankfurt am Main in Germany and the Los Angeles Basin airspace is the USA are the most congested in the world . The direct of impact of ADS-B is an increase in the frequency use of 1090 MHz . At the same time it allows a reduction of number of Mode-S radars , it enables the development of a more effective TCAS with reduced interrogation rates ( known as ACAS X ) , and it reduces the number of interrogations needed by WAM systems . On the long term the impact of ADS-B will likely be positive . But with the increase in number of flights the 1090 MHz congestion will remain a concern . There are many discussions in the ATC surveillance circles about the topic and the 1090 MHz frequency ( and 1030 MHz as well ) is are frequently monitored . There are ground based monitors and periodically there are measurement flights to identify areas of high frequency load . Adding new radars to already congested areas is made very difficult by spectrum protection regulations , instead cross-border surveillance data sharing is encouraged . Some countries monitor 1090 MHz transmissions around the clock and the are plans to have a permanent monitoring service of 1030 MHz and 1090 MHz across Europe that will analyse spectrum usages trends and identify rogue transmission .
Definitions from <URL> . Metering : A method of time-regulating arrival traffic flow into a terminal area so as not to exceed a predetermined terminal acceptance rate . Metering airport : Airport adapted for metering and for which optimum flight paths are defined . Metering fix : A fix along an established route from over which aircraft will be metered prior to entering terminal airspace . Normally , this fix should be established at a distance from the airport which will facilitate a profile descent 10,000 feet above airport elevation [ AAE ] or above . But behind these definitions , that 's a whole domain under research and experimentation to shape the future of air traffic management . Metering methods are currently designed to respond to traffic increase , resulting airports congestion , and requirement for fuel saving and less nuisances from aviation . Solutions are known collectively under AMAN acronym for <URL> . As said , this fix is established on a route prior to the terminal airspace , 10,000 feet or more above the airport elevation . It can be the <URL> . The concept is to manage cruise speed to arrive at the metering fix in time , instead of holding/vectoring before ( or in ) the terminal area . ATC can determine in advance times aircraft will be allowed into the TMA , based on aircraft capabilities , traffic and weather ) . ATC is able to issue a " EXPECT descent in n minutes " to facilitate planning by crew using their FMS . This allows for limited vectoring and holding prior to the TMA . When holding/vectoring is still needed , it happens at higher altitude , which is better for noise/emissions management . <URL> Thales AMAN/DMAN concept in Europe , <URL> For example , there is such metering for arrival at Sydney . Sydney has a curfew at night , aircraft are descended in the order they arrive , which encourage crews of early flights to arrive before the end of the curfew and hold . But because many crews use this trick , waiting time increases . By using metered arrivals ( ALOFT in-house system and <URL> AMAN from Thales ) , crews are provided with a narrow time window for crossing metering fixes , one at 160 NM from the airport , the other at 40 NM . Once you have the window , there is not need to hurry and then wait . The time crossing the first metering fix can be provided up to 1,000 NM before arriving at this fix . What 's exactly a profile descent and how is it related to the metering fix ? The descent profile is the curve of altitudes followed for descent . The most efficient way to descent is the continuous descent without level segments . The aircraft just glides with idling engines and clean configuration ( less noise , less fuel , reduced wake ) . This profile is only possible if nothing prevents to descent at any point , e.g. a congestion in the terminal area . By ensuring a free descent after the metering fix , this portion of the descent can be optimized for fuel saving and noise reduction . So how does a metering fix work to absorbs arrival delays ? What merits does it have as compared to delay vectors and holds ? The idea behind AMAN is to regulate traffic the most upstream possible , start sequencing early , and prevent wait time in flight . There is a complementary solution which is currently investigated too : DMAN for Departure Management , with transition fixes ( also visible on the picture ) . AMAN and DMAN systems can be coupled . As pointed out by @Lnafziger , metering fixes can be used more upstream than terminal area , up to departure . Such upstream fixes are visible on the picture . If we add Surface Management ( SMAN ) , block-out times can be optimized effectively , minimizing taxi and airborne time , and at the same time minimizing delays and nuisances . These systems tend to switch from distance sequencing to time sequencing . This field is currently actively experimented , both in the US , Europe ( LFPG experimenting coupled AMAN/DMAN ) and Australia and a few other locations . <URL> <URL> For more , see also : <URL> I hope @DeltaLima will show and provide additional elements for Eurocontrol .
The short answer : It depends . Either 10 , 20 or 30 hours of simulator/FTD/ATD time may be used , but all of it must be with an approved instructor . None of it may be solo . None of the requirements you posted are related to simulator time . 50 hours of Pilot in Command cross country This can be done solo , as you are a rated pilot and thus PIC . This need not be solo XC and can be done with a passenger or CFI . 40 hours of simulated or actual instrument time In this quote , simulated instrument time refers to time spent in the airplane during flight in visual meteorological conditions ( VMC ) that you are wearing a view-limiting device to simulate IMC . While wearing a view-limiting device you must be accompanied by another pilot who acts as your safety pilot . Thus , none of this time may be accomplished solo . You will always need another pilot either in simulated or actual instrument conditions . 15 hours of flight instruction towards Instrument Rating This time may overlap with the above ( actually , must overlap ) , the regulation reads ( <URL> ( d ) ( 2 ) ) : ( 2 ) Forty hours of actual or simulated instrument time in the areas of operation listed in paragraph ( c ) of this section , of which 15 hours must have been received from an authorized instructor who holds an instrument-airplane rating ... Now back to your question , what about simulator time ? For this we look further down to <URL> ( h ) and ( i ) ( h ) Use of flight simulators or flight training devices . If the instrument time was provided by an authorized instructor in a flight simulator or flight training device -- ( 1 ) A maximum of 30 hours may be performed in that flight simulator or flight training device if the instrument time was completed in accordance with <URL> of this chapter ; or ( 2 ) A maximum of 20 hours may be performed in that flight simulator or flight training device if the instrument time was not completed in accordance with <URL> of this chapter . and ( i ) Use of an aviation training device . A maximum of 10 hours of instrument time received in an aviation training device may be credited for the instrument time requirements of this section if -- ( 1 ) The device is approved and authorized by the FAA ; ( 2 ) An authorized instructor provides the instrument time in the device ; ( 3 ) No more than 10 hours of instrument time in a flight simulator or flight training device was credited for the instrument time requirements of this section ; ( 4 ) A view-limiting device was worn by the applicant when logging instrument time in the device ; and ( 5 ) The FAA approved the instrument training and instrument tasks performed in the device . The use of simulators and flight training devices is covered by ( h ) above , and the limit of 20 or 30 hours depends on how the training is conducted . In either case , note that time must be " provided by an authorized instructor " . Section ( i ) deals with lesser training devices that are limited to 10 hours but is also required to be conducted by an authorized instructor . Reprising the short answer , any time spent in a simulator , flight training device or aviation training device where you are solo or without an authorized instructor does not count toward anything . Sim time is only valid when conducted by an authorized instructor .
There are two sorts of " autopilots " , and it is important to make a distinction between the two . One is for the behaviour of the aircraft around its Centre of Gravity ( CoG ) , the other one is for defining the path of the CoG . The Inner Loop autopilot : behaviour around CoG , or the aircraft attitude control . This autopilot should not be called autopilot since its characteristics are actually shielded from the pilot : it does its job without showing what it is doing . It only moves the control surfaces ( elevator , ailerons ) or helicopter swash plate , and not the flying controls ( stick , wheel ) . To the pilot , the system is invisible and just results in a stable platform , in the case of the A320 and B777 a platform with envelope protection that does not allow for the aeroplane to enter a situation that would be dangerous . In helicopters this system is referred to as Stability Augmentation System ( SAS ) . The Outer Loop autopilot : defining the path of the CoG , which is ultimately what pilots are paid for :) . They are in control of the flight path and administer this control by deflecting the flying controls ( stick , pedals ) . The pilot can delegate this control to a feedback system that provides inputs to the same flying controls , via an actuator with a slip clutch . With an old fashioned mechanical linkage , the actuator moves the whole circuit from stick to surfaces ( or swash plate in a helicopter ) ; the pilot can override this input by applying a force greater than the override force of the slip clutch . So normally , by design , the Outer Loop autopilot shows the pilots what it is doing by moving the flight path input devices for them , in a way that is transparent and can be intuitively overridden by applying a high force . It is this bit where the A320 has a different philosophy : the input stick never moves other than by the hand of the pilot . This main distinguishing feature between the two types of autopilot does not exist in an A320 . It does in a B777 , which also has an inner loop autopilot plus envelope protection , and an outer loop autopilot which actually does move the column/yoke . So the B777 is functionally identical to the A320 in every meaningful way , plus retains the feature of moving flying controls . It has no mechanical linkage , and it uses two separate sets of actuators for this function : one set for the surfaces , and one for the flying controls . This is the situation on both Airbus > A320 and Boeing > 777 , when all systems are functioning . These aircraft are all dynamically stable : aerodynamics take care of bringing back the aircraft attitude to a neutral position . The F16 for instance is aerodynamically unstable in order to provide high manoeuvrability : it always wants to pitch and roll already , and the flight control computers provide constant rapid inputs to elevators and ailerons to maintain attitude by active control . This is not the case with passenger aircraft , which do not need to be as manoeuvrable as a fighter jet and just need to bring the passengers home safely . Therefore , both on the Airbuses &amp; Boeings , the aircraft can fly without the Inner Loop autopilots as well , without any problems . The aircraft just lose their envelope protection and now it is possible to command them into potentially dangerous situations such as fully developed stalls . In both types , it is always possible to disconnect the outer loop autopilot . For the inner loop ones : The B737 does not have one . In the A320 , it is not possible to disconnect the inner loop autopilots if all is functioning correctly , except by pulling circuit breakers for resetting the ELACs as <URL> indicates ; In the B777 there is a guarded switch that allows disconnection of the envelope protection as @Cpt Reynolds pointed out . In the latter two types , the system disconnects features by itself if failures are detected , to allow control in degraded mode . Both manufacturers have implemented a direct mode as the lowest mode , where surface deflection is a direct function of stick deflection . There is however no direct mechanical cable connection to the surfaces , even the direct mode is still an electrical input , so technically still Fly By Wire . <URL> Above picture is from , and shows the top level comparison of the implementation of the flight control loops . The redundancy features are different , functionality is much the same : both implementations prevent excessive AoA that brings the aircraft into a stall , and excessive bank angle . So although the functionality of modern Airbuses and Boeings is very similar , we do often see the myth that Airbus ranks the automated systems higher than the pilot . There is a difference in user interface implementation , in that Airbus has sticks that are not coupled with each other , and have no means to be driven other than by hand . At the time of implementation , this was a new feature that pilots were not accustomed to , as was the envelope protection system . New features can be poorly understood by inexperie
A PAPI and a VASI are very similar in the the information they provide . The only functional differences between the VASI and PAPI is that the VASI has the red over the white , the PAPI the white actually goes to the right of the red , and the PAPI offers higher precision ( or more glideslopes depending how you look at it a larger airliner with a high cockpit may elect to fly a slightly higher glidepath ) . The concept is the same though . A VASI looks like this : Usage : As the saying goes , Red over White , you 're alright . ( on glidepath ) Red over Red , you 're dead . ( too low ) White over White , you 're out-of-sight ( too high ) A PAPI like this : A regular VASI only offers one glide slope and is designed for an aircraft where the cockpit is n't so high up . However , there is a such thing as two-light PAPI , and a three-bar VASI . So either of them can really be tailored to fit the costs and types of aircraft flying to that airport . In the case of a four-bar PAPI it is higher precision . Since the PAPI systems uses a narrower beam of light you must fly the glide path more precisely than the VASI to stay on the beam . The PAPI , with its extra lights , forewarns you when you are drifting from the desired glide path . <URL> So one red light would indicate slightly above glide slope , two and two would indicate the normal glide slope , and three red lights would indicate slightly below the glide slope on a 4-bar PAPI . A Three bar VASI works in similar fashion except there are only two glide paths with two reds being the lower , two whites the higher .
end question
start question
Do box-wings suffer from induced drag the same way as normal wings ?
The box wing is only better when you compare wings with identical span . The two wings of a box wing work in different <URL> , so the downwash is spread out vertically . The difference in induced drag to a single wing is not big , just a few percent . The friction drag is higher ( see below ) , as is the structural mass , so the box wing needs to create more lift . This makes the induced drag of a box wing effectively higher than that of a single wing . What is <URL> , anyway ? It is the consequence of creating lift over a limited span . The wing creates lift by deflecting air downwards . This happens gradually over the wing 's chord , and creates a reaction force orthogonally to the local speed of air . This means the reaction force is pointing up - and slightly backwards . This backwards component is induced drag ! Wingtips are not involved and are not causing induced drag . Lift creation is . If you fly fast , there is a lot of air mass streaming past the wing per unit of time , so you need to deflect the air only slightly . Your induced drag is small . Sames goes for a large span : There is more air which can be deflected , so the induced drag is small . A box wing needs two slim wings per side , which will have a smaller chord than a single wing of the same surface area . So their Reynolds number is smaller , and their friction drag is higher . Also , the wing spar is less thick and will need to be heavier to carry the same lift ! If you drop the restriction of keeping span identical , the optimum single wing can afford to have more span ( due to its better structural efficiency ) , and away goes the advantage of the box wing . And once you look at the full picture and add structural mass , the box wing never had this advantage in the first place . Yes , but what about the Synergy ? The Synergy is a clever design with some advantages , but it can not cheat physics . These are the advantanges : The pusher prop keeps the airframe free of wake turbulence , so more area can be kept in laminar flow . The pusher prop sucks the air from the rear fuselage , effectively avoiding separation . The two stubby tailbooms and fins give great protection for the propeller area on the ground . The compact layout keeps the stabilizing effect of the propeller small , so maneuverability does not suffer much . The use of composites and glider airframe technologies reduce friction drag . The diesel engine consumes cheaper jet fuel and is more fuel-efficient than a gasoline engine . Note that I did not mention the box wing design ? Here are the disadvantages : Wing sweep in a propeller aircraft looks cool , but increases drag , because the wing must be bigger to create the same lift . In total , this configuration has four vertical tails , each of them with its own interference drag and a short chord which , again , increases drag over a comparable single vertical tail . The stretched-out horizontal tail is also less effective than a smaller single surface with more chord and more distance from the center of gravity . The compact layout provides little pitch or yaw damping . I wonder what the ride qualities in gusty weather are . I would expect that a more conventional layout along the lines of the <URL> would be even more efficient .
You can look it up in reference books . For wings , the <URL> is your friend . For complete aircraft , there is some data available in books about pre-design of aircraft . The one I have is <URL> by E. Torenbeek , and gives the following numbers for $ C _ { D_0 } $ 0.014 - 0.020 for high subsonic jet aircraft 0.018 - 0.024 for large turboprops 0.022 - 0.028 for twin engine piston aircraft 0.020 - 0.030 for small single engine aircraft , retractable gear 0.025 - 0.040 for small single engine aircraft , fixed gear 0.06 for agricultural aircraft without spray system 0.070 - 0.080 for agricultural aircraft with spray system Appendix F of the same book gives a method for more detailed estimation in the pre-design phase , when no wind tunnel data is available , based on data of the components that make up an aeroplane .
It 's all about the ' effective ' Mach number that the wing sees . In essence , for a swept wing , the Mach number that the wing ' sees ' as far as compressibility effects are concerned is the Mach number of the component of the freestream normal to the wing chord : <URL> By sweeping the wing back , you can get closer to the speed of sound without getting supersonic flow over the wing ( remember , a wing generates lift by accelerating the air flowing over it , thereby decreasing the pressure - so you 'll get supersonic flow over the wing before the freestream is supersonic ) . Of course , once you fly supersonic , there 's really no getting around having shock waves over the wing - however , you can reduce their strength with wing sweep .
In page 72 you 'll find the value of µ at standard sea-level temperature ...
The fuel used by civilian airlines , fueled in the USA , is <URL> . To acquire some , go to a nearby airport which can handle operations by Turboprop or Turbofan aircraft . Some of the smaller airports , only supporting piston aircraft operations , may not be able to help you , but anything which can handle a Lear Jet should be able to supply you with examples of it . There 's no specific chemical formula for this . It is a mixture of a variety of compounds . And no , you ca n't isolate just one particular compound and use it as a representative sample . There are reasons for the various additives , and all of them will have SOME effect on the burn characteristics . Try not to breathe the fumes , before or after combustion . Do not operate any kind of radio transmitter ( including a cellphone ) within 50 feet of the vapors of it ( when the fuel is exposed to air , before or during combustion ) . Make sure that whatever vessel you 're going to burn it in is metal ( plastic does n't respond well to burning petrochemicals :-) and make sure there is good electrical conductivity between the vessel and the ground . Have a large , CO2 - or Halon-based ( NOT water or dry chemical ) fire extinguisher nearby . When I was refueling F-16s in the Air Force : no radio transmitters ( walkie talkies , at the time ) were allowed with 50 feet of refueling operation the aircraft and the refueling vehicle BOTH had to be grounded and connected to each other BEFORE connecting the refueling line no refueling ops were permitted if there was lightning within 5 miles no refuelings ops were permitted without a 50-pound halon-based fire extinguisher and a dedicated person ( fire guard ) to man it This should give you some idea of proper safety around this stuff .
Normally not ; details depend on the control system and by how much the aircraft is out of trim . The force produced by the empennage will be the same in the trimmed state and when out of trim , only the control forces are different . Let 's examine the different possibilities : Adjustable spring ( as used on some light aircraft and gliders ) : The elevator deflection will be identical to the trim position , so there is no difference at all . Trim or servo tab on the elevator : The tab deflection will be different , but the elevator position will be practically identical . For tab angles of less than 10 ° relative to the elevator there should not be any difference in drag . Adjustable stabilizer : Now the elevator deflection will be different , and depending on the trimmed state the deflection angle might cause higher airfoil drag . If the elevator deflection relative to the stabilizer is more than 10 ° , a slight drag increase can be expected . If the power consumption of the autopilot is higher in the out of trim case , this might cause higher generator loads and more engine power is needed to keep it powered . But this effect should be very small .
My questions are : Is it really normal to see reports without viz ? Yes ! Well , maybe not " normal " , but it does happen . Automated weather stations are like another piece of equipment and components fail from time to time , including the components which measure the visibility . The other components also fail from time to time ( I 've see ASOS/AWOS reports without temperature , barometric pressure , etc. ) Why does this happen so often for AWOS when ATIS does n't have problems with it ? You should n't see this at all with ATIS , because a human is involved , and if the equipment which measures visibility is inoperative , a trained observer ( often the same person that is manually recording the ATIS ) can look out the window and record the visibility themselves . Should this be reported to some entity ( NOAA/FAA ) to get these systems repaired or exchanged ? I would let the airport manager know just in case they were n't aware . They are responsible for notifying the FAA . The fact that it is missing visibility information does not mean that visibility is unobstructed , right ? I have heard people assume this . If the visibility is missing , it means just that . It is missing . It might be 1/4 SM or it might be 20 SM . Some people may make assumptions that if there is no precipitation , that the temperature / dew point spread is high , etc. that the visibility is good , but that is a potentially dangerous assumption because visibility can be influenced by many different things . There could even be a dust storm coming through when everything else looks good ! If the recording says " VISIBILITY MISSING " , is it indicated in the metar somewhere ? Sort of . It 's just " missing " ( i.e. the entire wind block from the METAR will not be there ) , so if you do n't see it then , well , it 's missing .
it is not obvious if it could alter the wing shape for this to be a problem It may not be obvious but it is so . Plain old snow will just blow off as soon as the plane picks up speed , but if the wing was above freezing when the snow first fell on it , the snow will probably conceal a layer of rough ice , which will not blow away . Anything adhering to the wing surface will change the lift force . According to <URL> even a thin coating of ice can disrupt an airfoil 's boundary layer airflow , causing a premature aerodynamic stall and dramatically increased functional drag .
The differences are surprisingly small , and the implications of two versus four engines are not very great as far as design of the wing is concerned . Weight implications The wing is an immensely strong structure - after all , it 's able to bear the weight of the entire aircraft , including of course the engines . Engines are heavy , but only a small fraction of the weight of the whole aircraft . A similar aircraft with four engines rather than two will have smaller engines , so the total weight difference will not be large . Space implications You need more space to fit two engines on each side , but not a vast amount . For example , the <URL> has four remarkably small <URL> engines . What 's more , four small engines can be easier to mount , because they need less ground clearance . Same wings , more engines In practice , it 's not very difficult to add engines to a wing ( for aircraft companies , that is ; I do n't think I 'd be able to do it without seeing someone do it first at least once ) . For example , <URL> - obviously , this engine is just being carried , not used , but it shows that simply placing the engine there does n't present insurmountable aerodynamic or other engineering difficulties . And then we have the Airbus <URL> / <URL> , designed and built in parallel , which are essentially the same aircraft - same fuselage and same wing - one with two engines and one with four . ( Actually the -500 and -600 A340 variants do have slightly longer wings , but that 's because they are heavier , and nothing to do with the additional engines . ) That 's not to say that there are no implications in having additional engines . In this case , wing flutter caused by the outboard engines of the A340 required some stiffening . And of course , additional engines will require additional fuel and control lines . However , these are n't part of the structure of the wing itself , and are not in themselves likely to have implications for it .
A fine beam is needed do draw patterns . A regular led would require a moving focusing mirror , something expensive . There is a non-standard warning : " Laser aperture , Max output < 1 mW " near the leds : <URL> As the leds are in the visible spectrum , this is equivalent in power to a <URL> laser . A Class 2 laser is considered to be safe because the blink reflex ( glare aversion response to bright lights ) will limit the exposure to no more than 0.25 seconds . ( <URL> ) . This image shows the effect of a 5 mW laser light . You may use it for a 1 mW laser light by dividing the distances by 5 : <URL> Adapted from original on <URL> or from the <URL> : A 0.99 mW Class 2 laser beam can temporarily flashblind a pilot or driver , causing afterimages , within 240 ft ( 73 m ) of the laser . It can cause glare , blocking a pilot or driver 's vision , within 1050 ft ( 320 m ) of the laser . It can cause distraction , being brighter than surrounding lights , within 2 miles ( 3.2 km ) of the laser . The above distances are for a tightly focused beam , which is probably not the case of an inexpensive laser device . The effects of a more diverged beam are weaker . More info : This <URL> . To sum up : Most countries have regulations for dazzling a pilot , regardless of the mean and power used , it 's the effect that is taken into account . A class 2 laser led could n't blind someone unless the person is at a few meters ( 15 m for temporary blindness and 3 m for eye damages , if the eye is forced to stay open ) . As the class is not mentioned on the label , I would be careful when seeing this item . There are actually 2 laser leds , a red and a green , is it 2x1 mW or 2x0 .5 mW ? In practical the lasers probably ca n't illuminate the same eye , due to the divergence of their beams . To draw a pattern a laser light must move , so the time of illumination of a point is reduced when the device is working correctly .
I ca n't see a connection between " classes " of helicopters and ratings . You also do n't specify which jurisdiction so I will answer for the UK CAA which I know . To fly any helicopter under VFR needs nothing more than your license , gained on any type , and a type rating for the specific aircraft . For example , I gained my license on the R22 . I am therefore also type rated on it . The second aircraft I learned to fly was the B206 which is jet powered . I did n't need anything extra than the appropriate type rating . I can fly any helicopter for which I am rated under VFR . If I had an IFR certification , I could fly any helicopter I am rated for under VFR , and any IFR certified helicopter for which I am rated under IFR . " Difference training " is simply part of the the type rating . For example , if I ever learned to fly a craft with a retractable undercarriage , I would be rated to fly that type , but not another type with retractable gear . What does differ is the type of license , e.g. CPL or ATP . I would need that license in order to carry passengers for hire and to conduct other commercial operations , but I still need a type rating on whatever helicopter I use to carry those passengers . Put it this way , the day after I gained my license , I could climb into any helicopter and act as pilot under training . Hope that 's all clear !
Even without instrument error , IAS does not equal CAS . This because there are two kinds of errors that make up the difference between Indicated Airspeed ( IAS ) and Calibrated Airspeed ( CAS ) Installation error Instrument error Installation error is basically a pressure error . Airspeed measurement is a measure of dynamic pressure of the undisturbed airflow . When the pitot tube is not placed directly into undisturbed airflow the IAS will not equal the CAS . Another source of installation error are leaks in the pitot system . Instrument error is the error introduced by ASI itself by transforming the pressure to a speed indication . For example calibration errors of the pressure sensor or excessive friction in the mechanical drive system of the dial fall into this category . The POH in your example assumes no Instrument error , but is corrected for installation error . An implicit assumption is made that there are no leaks in the system , so the POH corrects for airflow disturbances . That is why some aircraft have different tables for different configurations ; the configurations affect the airflow around the pitot tube . In aircraft equipped with electronic Air Data Computers ( ADC 's ) the installation error is sometimes automatically corrected by making use of angle of attack sensors , electronic configuration information and lookup tables .
Short answer : The reason for <URL> ( skewed flight , as you call it ) during an approach in crosswind is to keep the wings level while maintaining sideslip-free flight . Flying wings are not fundamentally different , because they , too , have stability characteristics similar to those of conventional aircraft . Airplanes want to be flown without sideslip . <URL> ( where a component of the airspeed comes from one side ) incurs lots of complications : Some of the lift is also pointing sideways , so the airplane drifts sideways . Weathervane stability will make the aircraft yaw into the wind . This comes mainly from the vertical tail , but is only one of many components to make the aircraft controllable . The dihedral effect will cause a rolling moment , lifting the windward wing . Wing sweep will increase this rolling moment and add more yawing moment . Since the vertical tail sits upward of the line of symmetry in most airplanes , this also adds to the rolling moment . Most of these effects are desired , because they make the aircraft easier to fly , but during approach they make it harder to line it up with the runway . If the fuselage is held parallel to the runway , the windward wing needs to be lowered , so some of the lift points sideways into the wind , compensating the side force caused by sideslipping . This is achieved by keeping the ailerons deflected to work against the aforementioned effects , and the rudder needs to keep the airplane from turning into the wind . This is no problem as long as the airplane is high enough . On touchdown , however , such an attitude can not be maintained , or the aircraft will hit the ground with a part of the wing or an engine nacelle first . Only by pointing the fuselage into the wind can the course of the airplane be aligned with the runway in a sideslip-free way . This is called crabbing , because when seen from the ground the aircraft 's speed has a lateral component , a little like a crab wich is also known for its sideways movement . Now the wings are level , so the touchdown will happen with the wheels first . Unfortunately , now the wheels ' rotation direction is not aligned with the runway , and to reduce wear , pilots kick the rudder just before touching the ground to re-orient the aircraft parallel to the runway . The <URL> and the <URL> can rotate their gear struts , which enables both aircraft to touch down in crabbed flight . All other types produce more tire smoke and jerk the aircraft sideways if they touch down this way .
The <URL> allows pilots to bypass the traditional <URL> flight review by completing a " phase " of the WINGS program . The program and requirements are detailed in FAA Advisory Circular 61-91 <URL> . The short version is that a " phase " of WINGS consists of three credits of " flight activities " and three credits of " knowledge activities " , which must be earned with a 12 calendar month period . Flight credits are earned by flying with an instructor and demonstrating safe &amp; proficient flying skills in specific areas of operation . For example , one " Basic WINGS " flight activity ( worth 1 credit ) is demonstrating basic air work - forward slips , steep turns , rectangular course , S-turns , and turns around a point - to Private Pilot practical test standards . When you have successfully completed a flight activity your instructor can log in to the FAA Safety / WINGS site and give you credit for completing the activity . Knowledge credits are earned by attending seminars and classes - these can be <URL> , or on-line webinars . Many of the <URL> qualify for WINGS credit . When you complete a phase of wings your flight review clock resets , and your flight review becomes due 24 calendar months from the date you completed that phase . Ultimately participating in the WINGS program probably means you will be spending more than the " bare minimum " 1 hour of ground time and 1 hour of flight time that FAR 61.56 requires . While you can often complete flight activities in an hour ( or much less if you 're proficient ) the knowledge topics often take longer : the webinars are typically 30-40 minutes each , and in-person seminars can easily last an hour or more . The major benefit to the WINGS program is increased safety through building your knowledge and proficiency - the seminars are actually informative ( and the in-person ones can even be fun , depending on who is running them ) , and the flight activities are pretty easy ( though there are certainly challenging ones available if you want to push yourself and really sharpen your skills ) . Resetting the flight review is an enticement to encourage all of us to participate .
First , AF 447 was flying into the top of a tropical storm . The air was much more humid and warmer than that of the <URL> . Next , in the absence of seed crystals or nuclei , water vapour or liquid droplets stay in the air down to <URL> without freezing . From the linked article : Droplets of supercooled water often exist in stratiform and cumulus clouds . An aircraft flying through such a cloud sees an abrupt crystallization of these droplets , which can result in the formation of ice on the aircraft 's wings or blockage of its instruments and probes , unless the aircraft is equipped with an appropriate de-icing system . Freezing rain is also caused by supercooled droplets . So it was the impact with the probe which caused the supercooled droplets to freeze .
Of course gear doors create drag when open . The question is " how much ? " As you suspect , door drag is not the critical factor here . As usual the answer to your question is aircraft-specific , and your question is pointing to a generalized " old wive 's tale " which is only true sometimes . OK , what is the story behind the story ? <URL> . Watch the main gear as it enters/exits the storage wells in the fuselage . The axles of the wheels are close to parallel to the direction of flight , which means the wheels are being dragged broadside in the slipstream . A very high drag scenario which will affect aircraft performance . The POH recommendation is ( from memory , now ) to climb over critical obstacles on takeoff with the gear down , and raise the gear only when the obstacle is cleared . The attached video shows why . This advice does not pertain to all planes . Know your plane , read the POH . Oh ... and ask questions here !
Actually , the Boeing design for the SST ( Super Sonic Transport ) , the <URL> had a swing wing ( swing wing was the hot thing during that time ) . It is instructive to look at what happened to that design . <URL> Image from up-ship . com The 2707 concept was a larger aircraft , with a 174 ' wingspan for TO/landing and low speed regime ( In comparison , Concorde had a 84 ' wingspan and carried half the passengers ) . While the wings were swept back , the wing area increased from 1828 $ m ^ { 2 } $ to 2743 $ m ^ { 2 } $ . The engines were carried on the stabilizers . During the development Boeing had significant problems associated with the swing wing mechanism . Concerns about stability and payload capability lead the design to be lengthened and added canard to the front to meet rotation requirements , though the new design 2707-200 kept the swing wings . <URL> Image from up-ship . com However , these changes did little to solve the problems . When kept near the centerline , the hinge mechanism interfered with the undercarriage . The hinge mechanism was so heavy that it negated the advantages of swing wing , leading to a very poor payload to weight ratio . Studies indicated that the aircraft would run out of fuel halfway across the Atlantic , essentially killing the project . Due to this , Boeing decided to use a fixed wing platform in its next iteration , the 2707-300 , which looked quite similar to Concorde . <URL> " <URL> " by <URL> - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> .
There are 2 different black boxes . The cockpit voice recorder . This holds audio from several different sources , including the microphone for each pilot , the radio and a general cockpit microphone . The flight data recorder holds at least 88 different parameters including attitude of the craft , engine performance , autopilot setting , pilot input one the controls , etc. .
You start from wrong assumptions , which explains your doubts . The line the induced drag is due to the tip vortices is as true as saying that wet streets cause rain . Also , the opinion that the tip vortices strength will be as same as the bound vortex is wrong . Unfortunately , <URL> themselves and copy what <URL> without thinking the issue through . Ideally , you would forget about all what you have heard about vortices and lifting lines , but since you ask I will try to explain <URL> a little . In potential flow theory , lift is caused by vortices which are caused by the movement of a wing through air . These vortices run along a closed line : Within the wing they form the bound vortex , then they leave the wing backwards as trailing vortices and are connected at the point where the movement started by the <URL> . Now comes the important part which <URL> : There is no single vortex ; instead , potential flow assumes an infinite number of infinitesimally small vortices which form out of nowhere when lift is increased or speed is reduced . Consequently , no single vortex leaves the wing at the tips , instead , a sheet of vortices leaves the wing at the trailing edge . The change in strength of the bound vortices over span is equivalent to the strength of the vortices leaving the wing , so the vortices fade out towards the tips . My advice is : If you do not want to operate or to write a potential flow code , do yourself a favor and forget all that . It is much better to interpret lift as the consequence of a pressure field around a wing which <URL> downwards . <URL> is simply the component of the resulting pressure forces parallel to the direction of movement , while the perpendicular component is lift . Please make sure to follow at least the last link ; it gives a very good explanation what induced drag really is . Tip vortices are the consequence of air filling the void above the downward moving air behind the wing . They are not originating from the wingtips , but the consequence of the vortex sheet rolling up ( if you want to stay in that picture ) . Note that the distance between the cores of the vortices is <URL> . For an elliptic wing of span $ b $ , it is actually only $ \ frac { \ pi } { 4 } \ cdot b $ A higher wingspan allows to capture more air for lift creation , so less downward acceleration is needed . Lower downwash speed also causes a less powerful trailing vortex . Note that the mass of air affected by the wing grows with the square of the wingspan !
Oh , but they are all * correct ! First , we have to say that we are not talking about cause here . There is a flow around the wing and it has certain properties and neither is cause of the other ; they are both effects of the flow . What we are talking about here is explanations why every flow that produces lift also produces induced drag . And as far as explanations go , there can be more than one , because the physical theories have a lot of redundancy in them . You can usually arrive at the result by multiple ways . You can use the orientations of the normals ( the <URL> answer ) , you can use laws of conservation of energy and momentum ( <URL> answer ) or you can use the <URL> and that explanation will indeed involve the wake vortices . Because the potential flow theory is a mathematical apparatus for analysing fluid flow as a combination of vortices and from that angle of view , the energy is indeed carried away by the wake vortices . However , the wake vortex explanation has one problem : it is often associated with different misconception , the one that the vortices are caused by transverse flow around the tip and the resulting idea that it can be eliminated by doing something with the tips specifically . But that 's not what the potential flow theory says . According to the potential flow theory , there is a vortex originating from every point along the span and they combine to form the two tip vortices . So like the other explanations , it also clearly says the induced drag is related to any generation of lift . And if you understand that , it is correct . I still consider it unnecessarily more complicated . * All the three you listed that is . The ones that claim the wingtip vortex is caused by transverse flow around the tip are not , because it is n't . The wingtip vortex is just the vortex line of the overall wake ( and should preferably be called wake vortex ) .
end question
start question
What are the benefits of long-haul airplanes servicing regional routes ?
TL ; DR You 're confusing concepts , planes come in high/low capacity and range , routes come in high/low demand and long/short haul distances . A high capacity long range aircraft can operate very profitably on a short haul , high demand route ... a full 747 would actually be more profitable on a 1000km route than a full 737 , because although the 747 uses more fuel , it also carries a lot more passengers . You 're assuming that putting a big plane on a short route wastes money . Airlines do n't work in miles per gallon like you or I do with their car ... they work on income/expense . I could fly 747s on 100 mile hops all day , but if they 're full of 400 + passengers each paying more than 0.25 % of the running costs of that flight , I 'll still make money . If they could have used a smaller aircraft , it might waste a little money carrying the extra weight , but you seem to be over-simplifying things I 'm guessing this question is actually more along the lines of " How often do airliners run an aircraft that is n't completely full , and how much of that time could they have actually run a smaller aircraft ? " To which the answer is " Usually , and not very often " The economics are about running the whole system as a profit . If I have enough flights in summer that fill the aircraft , then over 12 months that bigger aircraft ( highly profitable all summer , breaking even all winter ) may make all money than a smaller aircraft making a small profit all winter , and a small profit all summer , but not being big enough in summer to take the entire potential demand . Essentially , though , airlines are in the business of getting the " best fit " for their fleet . They are n't trying to get a plane in every size to have the perfect profit ratio for each flight , they are trying to get a suitable plane on each flight . This involves moving planes around as routes change etc. . In an ideal world you 'd run each plane exactly full of every passenger who wanted to fly on that route . In reality , we probably want a plane which is just slightly bigger than that , to cope with the small amounts of extra demand Again you 're seeing " Long haul " and " Short haul " aircraft as different concepts . They are n't . There are only high/low capacity aircraft and high/low capacity routes . Long haul routes tend to have less frequent service with larger , higher capacity aircraft ( if you 're travelling for 18 hours , you do n't need a service with departures every 3 hours ) . They also tend to involve people travelling from " The UK " to " Australia " for example , so one big plane can cover all of that , and split to smaller aircraft to disperse them Short haul routes tend to have more regular service and smaller demand levels , partially because people are less likely to want to depart at the same time every day , and partially because they can be more fine grained - you can go from an area of one country to an area of another . What you seem to miss is that these things are not mutually exclusive ... with enough demand , larger aircraft can run short haul routes very profitably . The fact a 747 is usually profitable on long haul flights , and the fact the demand on short haul routes do not usually have enough demand for such a large aircraft , do n't mean that one could never be profitable if enough people wanted to fly on it . There are airlines using 777s for example for fairly short haul journeys , very profitably , all over the world .
It 's fairly common for cargo , freight , and mail to be carried by aircraft - particularly for high value or priority cargo . For example Royal Mail ( the primary British mail service ) uses short haul flights for distances of less than 100 miles ( London Stansted to East Midlands Airport ) , along with around another 10 flights within the UK , every night . These flights are used for priority ( next day ) mail , but will be filled with " cheaper " mail if necessary . It all depends on the value of the cargo and the speed which it needs to travel , and aircraft only tend to be used where it is profitable to do so ( ie where the cargo needs to travel fairly quickly and they can charge a high price to justify that ) . Generally trucks will be used for shorter distances ( < 500 miles ) for low value cargo , and for longer distances for heavier cargo or cargo which does not need to travel quickly . <URL> <URL>
The FAA defines several different types of aircraft , which have different applicable regulations . For fixed-wing aircraft , airworthiness for normal , utility , acrobatic , and commuter categories is covered in <URL> . Note : Seat number excludes pilot seats . Weights are maximum certificated takeoff weights . Normal category Seats : 9 or less Weight : 12,500 lb or less Allowed maneuvers : Any maneuver incident to normal flying ; Stalls ( except whip stalls ) ; and Lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , angle of bank 60 degrees or less Utility category Seats : 9 or less Weight : 12,500 lb or less Allowed maneuvers : Normal category , plus : Spins ( if approved for the particular type of airplane ) ; and Lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , or similar maneuvers , angle of bank can be more than 60 degrees but not more than 90 degrees Acrobatic category Seats : 9 or less Weight : 12,500 lb or less Allowed maneuvers : Anything not prohibited due to flight tests Commuter category Seats : 19 or less Weight : 19,000 lb or less Engines : 2 or more Allowed maneuvers : Any maneuver incident to normal flying ; Stalls ( except whip stalls ) ; and Steep turns , angle of bank 60 degrees or less Except for commuter category , airplanes may be type certificated in more than one category if the requirements of each requested category are met . Beyond commuter category , there is the <URL> . Multi-engine airplanes satisfying either of the below requirements must be certified in this category . Airworthiness for the transport category is covered in <URL> . Transport category Seats : 20 or more Weight : more than 19,000 lb For rotorcraft , there are two main categories : normal and transport . Airworthiness for the normal category is covered in <URL> . Normal category Seats : 9 or less Weight : 7,000 lb or less Multi-engine rotorcraft satisfying these conditions may be certified under transport Category A ( see below ) if they satisfy certain conditions . Airworthiness for the transport category is covered in <URL> . There are sub-categories here as well . Transport category Category A Seats : 10 or more Weight : more than 20,000 lb Category B Seats : 9 or less Weight : 20,000 lb or less If a rotorcraft only satisfies one of the requirements for Category A , it may be certificated under Category B with certain additional requirements . A multiengine rotorcraft may be type certificated as both Category A and Category B with appropriate and different operating limitations for each category . There is also a <URL> category covered in <URL> . A balloon is a lighter-than-air aircraft that is not engine driven , and that sustains flight through the use of either gas buoyancy or an airborne heater . Part 21 addresses the certification process itself , and includes special types of certificates for other aircraft . <URL> Power sources allowed : None Single naturally aspirated engine ( stall speed 61 kt or less ) Rotorcraft with 6 lb per square foot main rotor discs loading limitation ( sea level standard day ) Weight : 2,700 lb or less ( seaplanes 3,375 or less ) Seats : 3 or less Unpressurized The restricted category allows a plane to not meet certain requirements under the normal regulations . The aircraft must meet one of the following conditions : <URL> Requirements of any regular category , except any that are " inappropriate " for the aircraft 's purpose Armed Forces aircraft modified for a special purpose US Armed Forces surplus aircraft can also be certified under one of the below conditions . The FAA has some leeway to waive requirements or add additional ones . <URL> Designed and constructed in the US , satisfies certain regulations Counterpart of previously certified civil aircraft , complies with those regulations Special certificates are issued for cases where the aircraft is not certified under the regular categories . These allow operation of certain aircraft for certain purposes . The experimental certificate is for special cases . Experimental certificates Research and development Showing compliance with regulations Crew training Exhibition Air racing Market surveys Operating amateur-built aircraft Operating primary kit-built aircraft Operating light-sport aircraft The <URL> certificate is for light aircraft that may be operated under special conditions . There are 5 categories of LSA . Light sport certificates Airplanes Gliders Powered parachutes Weight-shift-control aircraft ( commonly called trikes ) Lighter-than-air aircraft ( balloons and airships )
This is quite difficult to answer as some modern supersonic fighters do n't have just ailerons , but ' elevons ' , flaperons , tailerons and most of the time combine the movement of several control surfaces by computer to generate a desired effect . Large civilian aircraft tend to have more than one pair . A relatively smaller set closer to the wing tips for slower speeds and a general large aileron closer to the wing root . I would suggest you get a top-view of these aircraft . When you find our the length of the aircraft or wingspan you could derive it yourself through approximation .
Check out AIM 1-1-9 for localizer information . Basically , the localizer is positioned so to have a course width of 700 ' at the threshold . So full deflection to either side is 350 ' . A CDI has 5 dots on each side , so at the threshold each dot is 70 ' . Near the Middle Marker , one dot means you 're off course by 150 ft. Near the Outer Marker , a one-dot deviation puts you about 500 ft. from the centerline . GPS ( non-WAAS ) approaches have a constant full scale deflection of .3 NM after the final approach fix . AIM 1 − 1 − 17 5 ( e ) ( 5 ) When within 2 NM of the Final Approach Waypoint ( FAWP ) with the approach mode armed , the approach mode will switch to active , which results in RAIM and CDI changing to approach sensitivity . Beginning 2 NM prior to the FAWP , the full scale CDI sensitivity will smoothly change from ± 1 NM to ± 0.3 NM at the FAWP . As sensitivity changes from ± 1 NM to ± 0.3 NM approaching the FAWP , ... WAAS on the other hand is similar to the localizer . AIM 1-1-18 ( d ) 4 Both lateral and vertical scaling for the LNAV/VNAV and LPV approach procedures are different than the linear scaling of basic GPS . When the complete published procedure is flown , ± 1 NM linear scaling is provided until two ( 2 ) NM prior to the FAF , where the sensitivity increases to be similar to the angular scaling of an ILS . There are two differ - ences in the WAAS scaling and ILS : 1 ) on long final approach segments , the initial scaling will be ± 0.3 NM to achieve equivalent performance to GPS ( and better than ILS , which is less sensitive far from the runway ) ; 2 ) close to the runway threshold , the scaling changes to linear instead of continuing to become more sensitive . The width of the final approach course is tailored so that the total width is usually 700 feet at the runway threshold . Since the origin point of the lateral splay for the angular portion of the final is not fixed due to antenna placement like localizer , the splay angle can remain fixed , making a consistent width of final for aircraft being vectored onto the final approach course on different length runways . When the complete published procedure is not flown , and instead the aircraft needs to capture the extended final approach course similar to ILS , the vector to final ( VTF ) mode is used . Under VTF , the scaling is linear at ± 1 NM until the point where the ILS angular splay reaches a width of ± 1 NM regardless of the distance from the FAWP .
You are right , more blades are bad for <URL> ( follow the link for the definition ) . <URL> . Every additional blade will cause disturbances which interfere with the flow on the other blades . When engine power increases , the propeller disc area should also grow , but this growth is limited by the resulting speed of the blade tips . Once the flow speed there becomes supersonic , the drag at this section of the blade increases without a corresponding increase in thrust . To avoid that , the next best option is to increase the solidity ratio of the propeller , called also the <URL> . This is done by either increasing blade chord or the number of blades . Make no mistake , this is bad for efficiency . But if there is enough power available , adding more blades is the best way to transform that engine power into thrust . Take the Supermarine Spitfire : The prototype , powered by the 1,030 hp <URL> , had a two-bladed propeller From the Mk II , a three-bladed propeller was fitted to accommodate the increasing power of the RR Merlin ( 1,470 hp for the Spitfire Mk V ) . With the <URL> , a four-bladed propeller was needed for the 1,575 hp of the supercharged Merlin 61 . From the <URL> , the more powerful Rolls-Royce Griffon made a five-bladed propeller necessary . Engine power was raised from 1,735 hp to 2,300 hp for the last variant , the Mk XXIV . <URL> Rolls-Royce Griffon-powered Supermarine Spitfire ( picture <URL> ) A lower prop speed allows to increase its diameter , but while tip speed will drop by less than the reduction in prop speed ( after all , flight speed should not change ) , the available thrust from this propeller will drop by the square of the speed reduction , since thrust is proportional to the dynamic pressure on the blades . And thrust you get only from the circumferential fraction of the local speed at the blade ; flight speed does not count here and does not help to mitigate the reduction . Consequence : You can not make the propeller bigger and spin it more slowly for a given power . An extreme example for a propeller with a high activity ratio is the <URL> contra-rotating propeller of the <URL> powering the <URL> : <URL> SV-27 propellers on the An-70 ( picture <URL> ) . Eight blades in the forward disc and six in the rear , running at only 1200 RPM . In order to reduce Mach effects , all blades have a swept tip and deep chord . This can only be topped by something like an <URL> . A turbofan , in other words .
What you describe does not match any banner tow rig I am familiar with , and I have towed banners . What it sounds like is a magnetometer , which might be on a survey aircraft . They can be on a boom ( stinger ) or sometimes towed . I have seen them on Cessna 182 , 210 and 208 aircraft , as tail mounted booms . Magnetometers are typically used for geophysical survey work . Towed magnetometers may be more sensitive and might be useful for detecting submarines , mines , etc. . The P-3 typically has a rear boom with a magnetometer or magnetic anomaly detector ( MAD ) .
I suspect this heavy depends on the type of the aircraft , so lets assume we are considering a small airplane . Absolutely right , it does vary widely . The parameter you 're asking about is called <URL> and it is directly related to another parameter called <URL> or L/D ratio . This is a fundamental characteristic of the aerodynamics of a particular aircraft . L/D ratio varies with airspeed ; for determining best engine-out glide performance , the L/D ratio at " best glide airspeed " is used . " Best glide airspeed " is the speed that maximizes the L/D ratio , and this maximum value is known as L/Dmax . The maximum L/D ratio ( L/Dmax ) of a Cessna 172 is about 9 , so its glide ratio is about 9:1 - for every 9 units traveled forward it will lose 1 unit of altitude . So , it will glide about 9,000 feet for every 1,000 feet of altitude available . This is a fairly typical value for small planes . To show you how widely variable this is , a modern glider can achieve ratios above 60:1 , while the Space Shuttle ranged from about 1:1 at high speed , early in reentry , to 4.5:1 on final approach . Notably , large transport aircraft tend to have significantly higher L/D ratios than small aircraft : a 747 can achieve an L/Dmax of about 17:1 . With an altitude of 33,000 feet ( ~ 10,000 meters ) that would mean a gliding distance of 100 miles ( ~ 170 Km ) . What governs the ' glideability ' of the plane ? As above , its lift-to-drag ratio . Very casually speaking this is just a measure of how " aerodynamic " the airplane is , comparing its capability to generate lift with the drag it creates in the process . The better its lifting capabilities , or the less drag it generates , the higher the ratio . For more information , I highly recommend a free online book on aerodynamics called <URL> by John Denker . It is written for pilots , not mathematicians or physicists , so it explains the concepts very intuitively without a lot of equations . It talks about L/D ratio and explains some of the factors that affect it . ( I would recommend this book to any pilot anyway . ) Is it possible , for an airplane with an engine/engines , to leverage this to save fuel while flying , or are they too heavy/otherwise unable to do this ? Since glide ratio is directly related to ( indeed it 's the same thing as ) L/D ratio , you could say that airplanes already do take advantage of it . The higher their L/D at cruise airspeed , the more fuel-efficient they will be ( because less thrust will be required to counteract drag in steady-state flight ) . If you 're asking about shutting the engines off during approach/landing to save fuel , <URL> which specifically addresses this . ( The answer , in short , is no , it 's not practical . )
It 's fairly common for cargo , freight , and mail to be carried by aircraft - particularly for high value or priority cargo . For example Royal Mail ( the primary British mail service ) uses short haul flights for distances of less than 100 miles ( London Stansted to East Midlands Airport ) , along with around another 10 flights within the UK , every night . These flights are used for priority ( next day ) mail , but will be filled with " cheaper " mail if necessary . It all depends on the value of the cargo and the speed which it needs to travel , and aircraft only tend to be used where it is profitable to do so ( ie where the cargo needs to travel fairly quickly and they can charge a high price to justify that ) . Generally trucks will be used for shorter distances ( < 500 miles ) for low value cargo , and for longer distances for heavier cargo or cargo which does not need to travel quickly . <URL> <URL>
The question you 're asking roughly translates to . The answer is " About 15-20 seconds , once the pressure bleeds off . " The FAA has a handy table for this : From Chapter 16 of the Pilot Handbook of Aeronautical Knowledge . <URL> , or <URL> The Time of Useful Consciousness will vary depending on personal physiological factors ( e.g. if you 're a smoker your blood does n't oxygenate as well - you will probably have less time . If you 're a mountain climber in excellent shape and used to breathing rarified air on your climbs you 'll probably have a little more time ) . In the case of a non-explosive decompression ( say a pressurization system failure ) you 'll probably have more time than this from the start of the event to the point where everyone is unconscious : the cabin pressure will take time to bleed off . Whether that time is seconds or minutes depends on the nature of the leak . Presumably while the pressure is bleeding off the aircraft 's systems will complain about the loss of cabin pressure and give the pilots a chance to address the problem ( fix the pressurization system or descend to a safe altitude ) . Unfortunately the effects of hypoxia can start setting in before the crew realizes what 's going on ( which is one of the contributing factors in the loss of <URL> , which suffered just this kind of gradual depressurization ) .
Another reason to have shorter wings on high-speed or maneuverable aircraft deals with the aircraft 's <URL> , which is the ratio between its length to is breadth/chord . Longer wings ( high aspect ) bend more under load , and may twist , which causes structural issues . Additionally , aircraft with shorter wings ( low aspect ) can roll much quicker . This means that a fighter jet with short wings may roll at rates up to 720 degrees/second while a large airliner or cargo plane may roll at 15-60 degrees per second . A third reason is parasitic drag . From the linked wikipedia article above : While high aspect wings create less induced drag , they have greater parasitic drag , ( drag due to shape , frontal area , and surface friction ) . This is because , for an equal wing area , the average chord ( length in the direction of wind travel over the wing ) is smaller . Due to the effects of Reynolds number , the value of the section drag coefficient is an inverse logarithmic function of the characteristic length of the surface , which means that , even if two wings of the same area are flying at equal speeds and equal angles of attack , the section drag coefficient is slightly higher on the wing with the smaller chord . However , this variation is very small when compared to the variation in induced drag with changing wingspan . For example , the section drag coefficient $ c_d $ ; of a NACA 23012 airfoil ( at typical lift coefficients ) is inversely proportional to chord length to the power 0.129 : $ $ c_d \ varpropto \ frac { 1 } { ( \ text { chord } ) ^ { 0.129 } } . $ $ Since parasite drag increases with airspeed , and high aspect wings have higher parasite drag , it makes sense for high-speed aircraft to have the wing that creates less drag at high speeds , and the slower aircraft to have the wing that creates less induced drag . You can see this in a simple graphic of the drag curves : ( Since the induced drag is lower at high speeds anyway , there is little point in minimizing that , rather minimize the type of drag that is a much larger factor at high speeds )
The high energy air that passes through the slots prevents boundary layer separation over the top surface of the flap . Though , this increases drag but it improves the stall characteristics of the airfoil . In other words , we can have higher maximum lift coefficient ( Cl_max ) by having higher maximum angle of attack ( alpha_max ) . So , higher the number of slots higher Cl_max one could reach , there should be a limit . In case of a fixed weight of an aircraft , a higher lift coefficient implies that one can fly at lower speed before it stalls . A comparison between different types of flaps ( up to double slotted ) can be found in the book Aircraft Design and Performance by Anderson . Source : The same book .
Besides the main points you mentioned , I can think of a couple things , the first is sort of related to your point # 1 . Airplanes are designed to be easy to service . Cars are less so . Cars only have a few very expensive parts , mainly the drivetrain ( engine and transmission ) . If either of those needs to be replaced in an older car , it can easily cost more than the car is worth . Airplanes are much more complex , and have a larger number of expensive components . The engines of most airliners are designed to be removed relatively quickly . Although the engines tend to be the most expensive part , replacing an engine is nowhere near the total cost of the airplane , and there is generally a good pool of engines out there for parts and replacement ( just look at how many JT8D engines are still in service ) . In GA aircraft , it is easier for a repair to cost more than the airplane is worth . However , the more comprehensive maintenance required on aircraft means that this kind of repair is less likely to be needed . Also , while its usually easy to go out and replace a broken car with a comparable new or used one , the aircraft market is n't as large . New aircraft tend to be much more expensive , and the used market is more limited . Another reason is that airplanes can have more unique qualities than cars . For example , there are original 737s flying in Canada because they are able to operate from gravel runways . There are just more combinations of sizes and capabilities in airplanes than with cars . Many times , it is only economical to replace those aircraft ( both for the builder and the buyer ) in very long cycles .
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau did a report titled : <URL> This report specifically covers this and found that the accident rate was three times higher in kit built - vs - similar factory build aircraft : What did this report do The ATSB investigated the safety history of amateur-built aircraft in Australia through analysis of accident data held in the ATSB 's occurrence database from 1988 to 2010 . Comparisons were made between accidents involving amateur-built aircraft and those involving similar factory-built aircraft to help identify whether the rate and types of accidents differed between these two groups of aircraft . What the ATSB found Amateur-built aircraft had an accident rate three times higher than comparable factory-built certified aircraft conducting similar flight operations between 1988 and 2010 . The fatal and serious injury accident rate was over five times higher in amateur-built aircraft , in particular due to relatively more serious injury accidents . The pilots of amateur-built aircraft involved in accidents were significantly more experienced overall than factory-built aircraft accident pilots . However , they were significantly less experienced on the aircraft type that they were flying at the time of the accident . Over half of the accidents were precipitated by mechanical events , which were mainly complete or partial engine failures . Following the amateur-built phase one test period , mechanical failures were still significantly more common when compared with factory-built aircraft . A quarter of accidents were from loss of aircraft control . Structural failures were not common precursors in amateur-built aircraft . Collision with terrain and forced landing accidents were more frequent in amateur-built aircraft . Collisions with terrain , hard landings , and runway excursions were more likely to result in a serious injury from an amateur-built aircraft accident than for factory-built accidents . On the other hand , the EAA says that homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate of less than 1 % higher than the general aviation fleet in their <URL> , but this did n't compare homebuilt to factory built in similar models : How Safe Are Amateur-Built/Homebuilt Aircraft ? Studies by FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board ( NTSB ) show that Amateur-Built/Homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate less than one percentage point higher than the general aviation fleet . In fact , the accident rate for Amateur-Built/homebuilt aircraft is dropping . The total number of registered homebuilt aircraft is increasing by about 1,000 per year , while the total number of accidents has stayed virtually the same . Another good barometer of safety is insurance rates . Companies that insure both homebuilts and production aircraft charge about the same rates for owners of either type of airplane . That indicates a similar level of risk .
Such information is not available , for free , on a world wide level . If you are willing to spend some money , you should have a look at <URL> , which provides such information on a world wide level , for hobby use . However , most countries now make their AIP publically available on the internet . Simply search for " [ country name ] AIP " to look up an AIP for a specific country . In any AIP , you want to look at part 3 of the ENR section . Usually ENR 3.1 , ENR 3.2 or ENR 3.3 . Here is an example of from AIP Denmark : <URL> This information is digital , official , up to date , free and in WGS84 format . However , you will have to look it up for every country . If you are looking for a visual overview of airways and RNAV routes in Europe , a good place to start is the <URL> . You should also check out <URL>
According to the <URL> , the main reason is search and rescue : b . It is strongly recommended that a flight plan ( for a VFR flight ) be filed with an FAA FSS . This will ensure that you receive VFR Search and Rescue Protection . So the question becomes , does search and rescue have value in populated areas ? I would say that - excluding large cities - populated areas are actually not very densely populated at all ( relatively speaking ) , and there is a very good chance that no one will see your aircraft come down or even react if they do . You might be flying at night , or no one may be looking in the right direction , or they may assume you 're landing at a private strip or doing cropdusting or whatever . And even when an aircraft is known to be down in a specific area , it 's often very hard to find it - especially if you land in trees - so anything you can do to narrow down the search area is important . An AOPA safety video ( I forget which one ) mentioned an incident where a helicopter went down less than a mile from a runway threshold at a class B airport and it still took 24 hours to locate it ( the details may be different , but you get the idea ) .
I will attempt an answer , although the question is a bit unclear . Climb rate is not measured in degrees or any other angle measurement unit . It 's altitude per time unit ( feet per minute usually ) . What you are mentioning is the climb gradient . See <URL> for details Now regarding your questions : Do climb rates for a given flight mission stay constant in one phase of flight ( e.g. until reaching 1500ft altitude ) and then change at a specific flight level or are they continuously adjusted ? Depends on what the pilot wants to achieve . Do they have to meet a restriction ? Noise abatement , crossing etc ? Are they instructed by ATC to climb quicker ( if able ) or slower to maintain separation with an opposite or crossing flight ? In any case they have to adjust their climb rate . Do given climb rates exist for ( one arbitrary ) given flight mission ? Yes and no . Given by whom ? The manufacturer ? The airline company ? The regulations ? If the SID you 've been assigned has climb restrictions imposed , then you have them given but not a firm number . It 's usually less than or more than ( or both ) . Also have in mind that climb rate is affected by aircraft weight as you can see in the document that I 've linked below . But this is more of a limit rather than a given rate for the specific flight . Is there a method to calculate the change of climb rates depending on altitude and weight ? Again , on whose perspective ? The aerospace engineer 's who designs the plane ? Or the pilot 's who will " just " fly it ? In the second case there are lookup tables , but I hardly recall details since it 's been almost 10 years from the last time I 've seen one . Are there sources like papers , reports , manuals that will work for genuine citation ? Your best bet is BADA . You might want to have a look into <URL> * where it actually describes ( among others ) the climb rates for various altitudes and weights for several aircraft types . Note that this is quite an old document dated back to 1998 , but I would guess this is the best one can get since BADA is proprietary and has lots of use restrictions . So I would n't expect anything much newer to be publicly available . * ( labeled since links have the bad habit to disappear )
I never landed at Courchevel , but did some aerobatic training in <URL> in the Giant Mountains of Silesia . What I learned was : A proper approach looks steeper than normal because the field inclination is steeper relative to the plane 's attitude . You need to flare sooner for two reasons : The sink speed relative to the rising ground is higher than normal , and The amount of pitch change needed to flare is larger . Even with airplanes which have a strong ground effect ( and where too fast a touchdown speed will normally result in a very long float ) the flare was short , as was the rollout distance . Do n't let speed bleed off too early , but stay on your approach speed until you are low enough to flare . Airports with slope sit on the sides of mountains . In many cases , the approach is already over rising terrain . When landing with a headwind , the wind will create a downdraft along the approach so the sink speed during the approach will be higher than normal . For glider pilots this is the biggest danger - once you are too low , you will hit the ground short of the runway . Most inclined runways show a variation in inclination along their length . This means that the relative sink speed and the necessary pitch change for a successful flare will vary with the touchdown point . Stay alert , no landing is routine ! The landing configuration and approach speed were not different from that on regular airports with level runways . Different was mostly the height at which the flare is begun . Also , at first I needed getting used to staying on my approach speed until I was low enough to flare - you need more energy to keep the airplane flying until it is level with the ground ( i.e. climbing uphill ! ) , so the final approach and flare must be executed precisely for a good landing . When I saw the runway at Zar for the first time I thought the location is sheer madness . After a few landings I learned to appreciate the benefits : Very short roll-outs and planes would land uphill only , so they come to a stop where the ( downhill ) take-off run could begin . But the approaches need to be precise ( we did mixed motor and glider flying ) especially with gliders if you want to keep your fellow glider students happy .
Jet engines are only efficient at high altitudes and high speed ( 25,000 + feet or so and 300 + knots or so true airspeed ) . The cost of making and operating an airplane capable of flying there is very high , and most general aviation flights have no need of such performance ( or expense ) hence , propeller airplanes . Reciprocating engine propeller airplanes are relatively efficient at low altitudes and airspeeds , they are more economical for the average types of general aviation flights . They are also much cheaper to build and operate than a turbine powered airplane . Turboprops fill the efficiency gap between reciprocating and pure jet engines , being most efficient at mid altitudes and airspeeds . Still more expense and performance than most general aviation flights need though .
It 's not just the big bombers flying long missions ; you 'd be surprised how many of the sorties flying over Afghanistan , Iraq , Syria , Libya etc originate from airbases in Northern Europe with refueling stops over the Mediterranean ( because closer airbases are n't available or are congested with aircraft from other forces or that have shorter ranges ) . The short and simple answer is , aircraft crews eat whatever they can bring with them , that wo n't make a huge mess in the process . A bigger plane like a B-52 has some room to get up and move , so the pilot may take 15 minutes during ingress or egress , duck out to the entryway and eat a box lunch , then come back and relieve the co-pilot so he can do the same thing . Radar , nav and weapons systems officers typically have a little room behind or between seats to step away and eat , or they 'll duck into the entryway as well . In smaller aircraft , space is more limited , but the pilot 's flight suit will still have plenty of pockets to carry food and drink pouches . There are some considerations as to the exact type of food , especially in one - and two-seat jets . A crewman has to prevent " foreign object damage " to the switches and displays in his cockpit , or else his crew chief ( and his CO ) will be all over him about it . Good choices include pre-wrapped bar-type snacks ; granola , protein , energy , some types of candy bars , whatever . Depending on what 's available in the mess hall , pilots may be able to assemble simple tortilla wraps with lunch meats and cheese , which are edible with one hand and fewer crumbs than a bread sandwich . Anything that can be put in a drink pouch , like broth or tomato soup , is also a possibility . Bad choices include things like trail mix , peanuts , M&amp;M s etc , as well as anything too loose to reliably keep together with one hand . The bigger concern is , what to do when it comes back out ? The B-52 has a rudimentary " head " , with what amounts to a camping toilet ( a bucket with a plastic bag liner and a toilet seat over the top ) called the " honeypot " . However , if it 's used , the crewman who used it is often tasked by the crew chief with cleaning it , so it 's considered a last resort . Crew of smaller aircraft have no such luxury , and unlike NASA astronauts , they would n't be caught dead wearing a diaper . Most fighter pilots eat a " low-residue " meal for the two or three meals before a very long mission or ferry flight , to reduce the chance they 'll have to BM during the flight ( some take an anti-diarrheal like Immodium as a preventive measure ) . Urination is a little easier to deal with , for men at least ; pilots carry packets with an absorbent powder ( not unlike what 's in diapers ) called " piddle packets " . The difficulty is typically in ... " maneuvering " . You have to get the equipment out of your flight suit , when you 're strapped down to the point of suffocation in a 6-point harness , then be able to aim into the piddle pack . Finally , you have to store this bag of piss somewhere until you get back to base , and as Rhino Driver is fond of explaining , if that base is a carrier , you have to make sure it 's extra-secure , or on capture it 'll go zooming forward toward the firewall and explode in a shower of damp absorbent crystals . Even if your squadron-mates do n't see you getting out of the plane covered in this stuff , your crew chief will be sure to tell them all about it .
end question
start question
How to calculate the required motor power and rotor size with respect to the weight of quadcopter ?
The most important thing to remember here is the Purpose . For what purpose do you want to use the Quadcopter ? That being said , let 's start with the very basic . Required Thrust = ( Weight x 2 ) / 4 In order to choose a motor you need to determine how much weight you are planning to take , and then work out the thrust required to lift the quadcopter . Also , when purchasing motors you need to consider Watt 's and Efficiency as well apart from Motor KV and Thrust.The higher the Efficiency , the better it is.The manufacturer/seller of Motors will provide the specifications about the Motor . This will help you to find out the thrust , power , rpm etc of the motor . <URL> Quadcopters have 2 clockwise ( CW ) and 2 counter-clockwise ( CCW ) propellers and it has two flight configurations . X config and + config . In X config two arms will face front side while in + config only one arm will face front side . If you are making Quadcopter with plus config you can tune your quadcopter easily by single axis tuning method . <URL> Increased propeller pitch and length generally draws more current . Also the pitch can be defined as the travel distance of one single prop rotation . In other words , higher pitch means slower rotation , but will increase your vehicle speed which in turn will use more power.If your intention is to do acrobatics , you will need torque propellers which provide more acceleration and it puts less pressure on the power system . Lower pitch propellers will also improve stability.A higher pitch propeller moves greater amount of air , which could create turbulence and cause the aircraft to wobble during hovering . If you notice this with your quadcopter , try to choosing a lower pitched propeller . <URL> You may also choose to use this below Quadcopter Calculator . You can dial in everything from motors to props to ESC . <URL>
Well , engines and rotors obey the same laws regarding induced drag ( induced power in this case ) as wings : larger fan/propeller/rotor is more efficient , but limited to lower speeds . And from that , the advantages should be obvious : Tiltrotors ( <URL> , <URL> ) are only a little less efficient in hover than normal helicopters , but they can only go around 300 knots ( both aircraft have max speed quoted at 275 knots ) ; above that , the tips would become supersonic and generate too much drag . These can be built with engines similar to what a comparable fixed-wing turboprop aircraft would need and can cary comparable payloads with only slightly higher fuel burn . The <URL> is a product for civilian market aiming at charter operators supplying oil platforms and similar remote stations where it should be more efficient than helicopter . The main disadvantage is that they are more complex and therefore more expensive to build and maintain . Tiltjets/vectored thrust jets ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) are horribly inefficient in hover , but they can go fast . Jet engine for thrust/weight ratio 1 ( needed for hover ) takes up most of the aircraft , leaving very little room for payload . Such design and thrust/weight ratio is common in fighters , but out of question for anything else . This configuration also consumes a lot of fuel for take-off and landing . Absolutely no way would anything like that be competitive for commercial operation . However , the military is willing to pay it if they can have a fighter jet that can be deployed from an assault ship . And even they prefer conventional aircraft when possible . This is really niche design , but one that offers enough tactical advantage that the Marines and the Royal Navy want it ( US Navy will use the conventional <URL> with <URL> , Royal Navy decided it will be cheaper to use the <URL> <URL> version than upgrading the carrier they are building to <URL> ) . I ca n't really compare maintenance . Obviously both are more complex than conventional aircraft and even than helicopters . But also , anything military is usually much more maintenance intensive than civilian designs , because military usually wants to squeeze out every bit of performance at the cost of simplicity .
Check the units . Using $ $ W = 50000N $ $ instead of $ W = 5099kg $ you get $ $ V = 83m/s $ $ ( vs. $ V = 26.5 \ sqrt { m } $ ) .
As one of my instructors was fond of pointing out , there 's pretty much a regulation for everything -- <URL> which is pretty short and to the point as far as government regulations go . The big rules regarding kites/balloons kick in for a kite " over 5 pounds " or a balloon " over 6 feet in diameter / 115 cubic feet of gas capacity " , and are : You have to keep them at least 500 feet below any clouds . You have to keep them less than 500 feet above the ground . You must be at least 5 miles from the boundary of any airport . If your kite/balloon is going to be more than 150 feet above the surface you 're also supposed to coordinate with the closest ATC facility ( who would theoretically put out a NOTAM saying " John Doe is going to be flying a kite/balloon/thingy here , between these hours . Please try not to hit it . " ) There are also some lighting requirements ( if you fly the balloon/kite at night ) , and visibility requirements ( but really , who wants to fly a kite in less than 3 miles visibility ? That seems like pretty lousy kite weather . ) As a favor to your local pilot community ( and to prevent having your wayward kite dragged off by a Cessna on short final ) it 's probably best to observe the three " big rules " above regardless of the size of your kite - a 6-ounce piece of balsa and cellophane can still make a lot of people 's days more interesting if it appears in an unexpected location .
What you refer to as the aerodynamic centre is also called the neutral point , the point where pitch moments do not change at all angles of attack with attached airflow . If you ask for an unswept body of high aspect ratio , the answer would be easy : At the quarter chord point in subsonic flow and at the half chord point in supersonic flow . Unfortunately , the neutral point shifts forward with decreasing aspect ratio until it sits right at the leading point ( not edge ) of a slender body , a body with infinitesimally small aspect ratio . It shifts slightly backwards with positive sweep , so you normally have to calculate correction factors which depend on Sweep angle Taper ratio Ratio of fuselage width and span Lengthwise position of the wing-fuselage intersection High wing or low wing configuration ( negligible influence ) If you do n't have good wind tunnel data or a validated CFD model , you would use a collection of formulas and diagrams like DATCOM ( see this <URL> ) to approximate a solution . Sorry , but I can not give you a simple formula which would work out of the box .
There are of course a lot of tiny changes that Boeing would have done to the aircraft that most of us would n't notice , but for brevity I 've just included the major changes between the 737NG series and the upcoming 737MAX . The CFM LEAP-1B engine replaces the current CFM56 engines . Some of the significant improvements in fuel efficiency ( 15 % savings minus drag from larger engine touted by CFM ) come from a much higher bypass ratio ( from 5.3:1 to approximately 9:1 ) and materials that can tolerate higher temperatures . Chevrons ( saw-toothed tips at the end of the nacelle ) have also been included to reduce engine noise on takeoff . The engine change required changes to the nose landing gear to allow enough clearance from the ground , extending the nose gear by about 8 inches ( 20cm ) and modifying the nose gear bay to allow it to fit into the existing space . The AT ( Advanced Technology ) winglets replace the 737NG 's blended winglets . The AT winglet incorporates two portions , done to reduce the weight required ( compared to a larger blended wingtip ) while still reducing block fuel burn by about 1.5 % . Fly-by-wire spoiler system reduces the need for long cabling between the cockpit and the spoiler hydraulic actuators , saving weight , reducing stopping distance by quicker actuation and increasing the accuracy of the controls . Redesigned tailcone and modifications to elevator to improve aerodynamics , removing the requirement for vortex generators ( VGs ) , which improves predictability and control by making the air turbulent , but as a result increasing drag .
For VFR Day Flights , you can use " A TOMATO FLAMES " : A - Altimeter T - Tachometer for each engine . O - Oil temp indicator for each engine M - Manifold pressure gauge for each altitude engine A - Airspeed indicator T - Temperature gauge for each liquid cooled engine O - Oil Pressure gauge for each engine F - Fuel quantity gauge for each tank L - Landing gear position lights ( if retractable gear ) A - Anti-collision lights ( aircraft certificated after March 11 , 1996 ) M - Magnetic direction indicator E - ELT , if required by § 91.207 S - Safety belts / Shoulder harnesses For VFR Night Flights , you can use " FLAPS " . This will be in addition to all the equipment required for a VFR Flight in Daylight . F - Fuses ( spare set ) L - Landing light ( if for hire ) A - Anti-collision light P - Position lights ( navigation lights ) S - Source of power ( such as battery ) Additionally , as @wbeard52 pointed out below , you can use " GRABCARD " as a mnemonic device to memorise the equipment required for IFR Flight . Again , these would be in addition to all the equipment required for VFR Day and Night Flight . G - Generator/alternator R - Radios ( two way and navigational equipment appropriate for the ground facilities to be used ) A - Altimeter ( sensitive ) adjustable for barometric pressure B - Ball ( slip-skid indicator , which is part of your turn coordinator ) C - Clock ( shows hours minutes and seconds and installed as part of aircraft equipment ) A - Attitude indicator R - Rate of turn indicator D - Directional gyro ( Heading indicator )
I do n't understand your statement - not sure where you are going with that . In general , the principles are the same as for fixed wing . If the CofG limits are exceeded , it is possible to run out of control authority to the extent that the aircraft becomes uncontrollable . Many helicopters , I believe any with a tail rotor , have different left/right CofG limits . The tail rotor opposes the rotation of the fuselage due to torque from the rotor . Since it does this by producing thrust to the side , there is a " translating tendency " which would cause the helicopter to drift in the direction in which the TR is generating lift . To counter this , the cyclic neutral position is rigged to the left ( CCW rotor ) or right ( CW rotor ) which results in the skid on that side hanging low . Clearly , there is now less possible movement in the cyclic to that side and therefore , a narrower lateral CofG . For example , in a helicopter with a counter-clockwise rotating rotor , the fuselage wants to rotate clockwise . The tail rotor will produce a thrust to the left to counter this and a long lever couple is formed with the main rotor which , if not corrected , would cause the helicopter to drift to the right . With a perfectly balanced helicopter , in a no wind steady hover , you want the cyclic to be in the centre with no force required from the pilot . To stop the drift to the right , the cyclic is moved to the left . To prevent the need for the pilot to do this , the cyclic is rigged so that its neutral position is to the left . The main rotor thrust vector is now titled to the left which introduces a horizontal component of thrust acting to the left . This also causes the left skid to hang low . This is why in most CCW rotor helicopters , the captain sits on the right and in some of these helicopters , solo flight from the left is prohibited . Since the cyclic is already left of centre , there is less cyclic authority to the left than to the right . Therefore , the right limit of lateral CofG is less than the left limit . This could not be achieved by moving the CofG since this would level the fuselage but would not oppose the thrust . I will never forget the sensation of my first solo lift into the hover after the talking ballast ( my instructor ) got out and left me to it . I lifted with the control positions where I was used to them . Because there was 170lbs less weight in the front left corner , this meant that I started to pitch up and move back . I was surprised by how much forward and left I had to move the cyclic to counter it . It felt very odd for a few minutes .
While the true ' reason ' is probably buried in some engineering notebooks from 60 years ago , it basically boils down to a design decision by the team designing the engine controls . Both methods work , and both companies have a list of reasons why they think their solution is ' best ' . P&amp;W will tell you that EPR is a better indication of engine thrust , and they 're right . But it relies on pitot probes to measure the pressures within the engine . Flow stability means response can be slow or erratic and the probes can be clogged causing problems . OTOH , it can indicate problems ( unrelated to the probes ) due to engine damage . GE prefers to use N1 . This is a simple speed indication of the fan . It 's not a direct indication of thrust but is directly correlated . The big advantage is that it is extremely reliable and stable . A good explanation is available from <URL> .
Yes , it is , at least for small pitch angles and low thrust . Here is how : $ $ L = m \ cdot g \ cdot n_z \ cdot \ cos \ gamma $ $ If thrust or pitch attitude become significant , you need to modify $ m \ cdot g $ by the vertical thrust component . Then the answer must be no , because the thrust information is missing : $ $ L = \ left ( m \ cdot g - T \ cdot \ sin ( \ Theta + \ sigma ) \ right ) \ cdot n_z \ cdot \ cos \ gamma $ $ $ L \ :\ :\ : $ lift $ m \ :\ : $ mass $ g \ :\ :\ : $ gravitational acceleration $ n_z \ :\ : $ load factor ( = 1 in horizontal , unaccelerated flight ) $ \ gamma \ :\ :\ : $ flight path angle , with $ \ gamma = asin \ left ( \ frac { v_z } { v } \ right ) $ $ v_z \ :\ : $ vertical speed $ v \ :\ :\ : $ flight speed ( TAS ) $ T \ :\ : $ Thrust $ \ Theta \ :\ : $ pitch angle ( up is positive ) $ \ sigma \ :\ : $ thrust angle relative to airframe 's x axis Note that the altitude is only needed if you use the <URL> . Using the standard value will give you a negligible error . Please note also that lift > weight will result in an upward acceleration . In a quasi-stationary climb or sink the <URL> .
The 737-900ER has ( two ) axillary fuel tanks in the aft cargo compartment , behind the wing ( and center of gravity ) with ~ 3400l capacity for increasing range ( from 2800nm to 3,200 nm ) . In usual conditions , unloading of passengers would n't be a problem as the fuel would 've been used up ; However , as this was an overweight landing with full fuel tanks ( the auxiliary fuel tanks weigh ~ 3t ) , the crew are just being cautious to prevent any incidents .
Land normally . Check your POH ( Pilot Operating Handbook ) first to ensure you have enough runway including the extra needed for a tailwind . The only thing to watch out for is that winds tend to moderate as you get closer to the ground . In a headwind landing , the relative wind will decrease , In a tailwind landing the relative wind will increase , so there will be an increased tendency to float way down the runway . Be on speed for a short field landing technique .
<URL> , is a broadcast of the aircraft 's position and other information . The position is determined by a GPS receiver . It is possible to use another qualified position source , but today it is <URL> . Other GNSS ( Galileo , GLONASS , Bei-Dou ) are other likely candidates in the future , but as far as I know , none have been certified for ADS-B yet . The broadcast is usually by the Mode S transponder but can also be done by a dedicated transmitter / transceiver in the Mode S format and frequency ( 1090 MHz ) . In the USA below 18 000 ft , in addition to the Mode S based ADS-B , a system based on Universal Access Transceiver ( UAT ) is used . This operates on 978 MHz A third broadcast system was VDL mode 4 , it was never rolled out on large scale . So ADS-B uses GPS to determine the position and it operates either on 1090 MHz ( a frequency also used by Mode S ) or 978 MHz to broadcast information .
The EMB-145 used a combination of <URL> settings and the thrust levers to select the desired thrust and to signify the need for additional thrust . The thrust levers had a detent that selected " 100 % " thrust for the given mode the FADEC is operating in . If you pushed the thrust levers past the detent to " max " this would give you extra thrust . The mode the FADEC is operating in is selected by a button in the cockpit that cycles through the available modes . For takeoff power the modes were " ALT T/O " , " T/O " and " E-T/O " which gave you 90 % , 100 % and 107 % thrust for takeoff when the thrust levers were in the detent . If advanced past the detent this would put the mode into a reserve mode and depending on model would give you up to 110 % or 117 % thrust . Setting the exact amount of thrust needed was up to the engine FADEC units , our job was just to tell it what thrust mode it was in and it scaled the output of the thrust levels to that mode . Flying a 90 % thrust takeoff , a normal rated climb and then reducing to cruise levels only required initially setting the thrust levers into the detent and adjusting the FADEC mode .
Altimeters are calibrated to a standard atmosphere model ( International Standard Atmosphere , <URL> ) . What the altimeter shows you is the vertical distance between the altitude equivalent to your current pressure ( pressure altitude ) and a reference " pressure altitude " . The reference pressure altitude is set in pressure units ( hPa or In . Hg ) on the altimeter subscale . This is known as the " altimeter setting " , set in the " altimeter setting window " . Image credit : <URL> Flying at lower altitudes ( below " transition altitude " ) , the altimeter is set to airport/regional QNH , which is a pressure calculated so that if you were standing on the measurement point , the altimeter would indicate your exact elevation . At other altitudes , it would approximate altitude above mean sea level , although it would show incorrectly if temperature differed from ISA . Above transition altitude , the altimeter is set to QNE , or standard pressure ( 1013.25 hPa , or 29.92 In . Hg ) . The altimeter will now only indicate correctly if both temperature and pressure are in accordance with ISA . You are now flying on " flight level " ( where the FL is your QNE indication in hundreds of feet , ie 20,000 ft = FL200 ) . For the purpose of avoiding obstacles , both QNH and QNE have to be corrected using various methods , which are described in various manuals . ( QNH for temperature , QNE for both temperature and pressure , both for other possible factors such as wind etc ) . For instance , this diagram shows three different aircraft , all flying the same pressure altitude , but with three different true altitudes : Image credit : <URL> However , altitude is also used for the purpose of traffic separation , and for this purpose , neither QNH or QNE is corrected . This might sound counter-intuitive , but as long as your altimeter is showing the same error as any conflicting traffic , you can be safely separated , therefore : The altitude shown on the altimeter is not corrected at all ( except by calibration for possible aerodynamic interference , such as compressibility , venturi-effects etc ) . In technically sophisticated aircraft , barometric altitude input is used for vertical navigation . Since vertical navigation is concerned with the true altitude of the aircraft , the aircrafts Air Data Computer ( ADC ) will calculated a true altitude based on information available to it ( either through sensors , or through pilot input ) . The true altitude is however , as stated , not shown on the pilots primary flight instruments .
My answer may not directly answer your question but from <URL> , I extract data for year 2014 and put in table as follow : note that total number of crew does not add up with each type of crew in the table Hope it gives you some idea about the ratio of pilot and flight attendant
It is an historical name . The first polars were drawn by Otto Lilienthal in polar coordinates . <URL> ( sorry , German link ) we find an example :
Compute maneuvering speed below max gross using the formula $ V_A \ sqrt { \ frac { W_2 } { W_1 } } $ , where $ V_A $ is the maneuvering speed at max gross , $ W_2 $ is actual weight , and $ W_1 $ is max gross . Unlike $ V _ { NO } $ , the maneuvering speed varies in proportion to the square root of the mass of the airplane . The reason for this is a bit tricky . The trick is that $ V_A $ is not a force limit but rather an acceleration limit . When the manufacturers determine a value for $ V_A $ , they are not worried about breaking the wing , but are worried about breaking other important parts of the airplane , such as the engine mounts . These items do n't directly care how much force the wing is producing ; they just care about the acceleration they are undergoing . By increasing the mass of the airplane , you decrease the overall acceleration that results from any overall force . ( Of course , if you increase the mass of cargo , it increases the stress on the cargo-compartment floor -- but it decreases the stress on unrelated components such as engine mounts , because the acceleration is less . ) Denker , John S. , <URL> , § 2.14.2 " <URL> , " accessed 16 Aug 2015 .
The weight of the battery is <URL> : Power is provided by 127 kg . of 250-volt lithium-ion polymer batteries from Kokam in South Korea built into the wing . A slightly different weight is <URL> : ... E-Fan has two lithium-polymer battery packs weighing 65 kg each . I could not find which Kokam battery is being used on the e-fan , but <URL> for all of their batteries .
As Ron mentions in the comments here in the US it is not illegal by any specific regulations however ... Most GA aircraft ( the smaller ones at least ) only have a single set of instruments that reside in front of the left seat as you mention in the question . Lets say hypothetically you were flying right seat and something went wrong . Due to the angle of view you were not able to read an instrument and this lead to an accident . Lets say you lose your primary CDI/Glide Slope while flying an ILS approach and you need to use one on the far side of the cockpit . For some reason you are alone and in the right seat . If an accident did occur as a result of this you may be able to be held to <URL> ( a ) Aircraft operations for the purpose of air navigation . No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . Since the left seat was open and available for you . But other than that there is no regulation preventing such operation . <URL> posted an <URL> in the comments below that has at least one quote worth mentioning Aircraft insurance policies and flying club rules often specify that all flying is to be done from the left seat unless the pilot holds a current flight instructor certificate or has specific authorization . While this is not an FAA regulation insurance companies or the rental/flight club you get your plane from may stipulate left seat only flying .
end question
start question
What are the basics of flying non-revenue ?
There are a few classes of Non-rev travel . Jumpseating Online pass travel Interline pass travel Jumpseating This is open to pilots and flight attendants , air-traffic controllers ( not sure if this is currently true , but it used to be ) , certain company and government officials ( e.g. the FAA and others ) . In general pilots can only occupy pilot jumpseats and flight attendants can only occupy flight attendant jumpseats . I know of cases where pilots can sit in the FA jumpseats but this is largely a topic of the Pilots and FA Union contracts . In general pilots can jumpseat on any other 121 carrier and some 135 carriers . Note that jumpseating does not necessarily mean you 'll be in the cockpit , as current regulations stipulate you should not sit in the cockpit unless there are not seats in the cabin available . If you list for a jumpseat you will generally be the lowest priority for a cabin seat , boarding after all other non-rev travelers and then in a specified priority order jumpseaters will fill up the cabin and then the cockpit jumpseats until space is exhausted . Jumpseating is the most versatile of the options , but the most limited in who can use it . It is good to keep in mind your jumpseat agreements probably allow jumpseating on cargo 121 carriers in addition to passenger 121 carriers , so keep Fedex , UPS , Atlas , etc in mind when travelling . Your spouse/kids wo n't be able to join you though . Online Pass Travel The specifics of this travel depends on your airline , but I will speak in general terms . Pass travel is usually available to the employee , the employeers domestic partner or spouse , the employees minor children and the employees parents . There is usually also a program for a limited number of passes for friends ( buddy passes ) . Pass travel is usually limited to your airline those you have a business relationship with . For example a regional carrier can usually pass travel on the legacy carrier they contract with . A legacy carrier can usually pass travel on its regional contracts . If a regional contracts with multiple legacies , you sometimes only pass travel on the legacy system of the legacy you perform flights for . It can be complicated . There is always a defined priority for pass travel . In general employees ride before spouses/parents/children who ride before buddy passes ( except when travelling together , you may all share the priority of the highest priority pass on the itinerary ) . When multiple companies are involved , the priority levels may reflect a higher priority for the company operating the flight employees than the legacy/regional contract carriers . Again , this will vary greatly from company to company and you will learn the specific rules that apply to you when you are hired somewhere . Interline travel These passes are known as ID75 , ID90 , etc where the number is the percent discount from a full fare ticket . You can generally buy passes for yourself , your spouse/domestic partner and your children . No buddy passes . To get an ID90 , you visit your travel office and request an interline ticket for a specific city pair . For example you can buy an ID90 for Rome - NYC . You get an old school paper ticket for that route and no specific airline . When you want to use the ID90 , you present it to the ticketing agents for the airline you want to ride that flies the route you want to fly . They will in turn issue you a non-revue standby boarding pass . These are generally lower priority than online pass travel when it comes time to board . These tickets are fully refundable , so they are often purchased as backups to get home when travelling in case you can not get back with online passes . How it all works If you are the employee , you have a company ID and use this to get through security . If you are the spouse/partner/child / buddy , then you will print out a standby boarding pass and use that to get through security . You can check bags , which will get tagged standby and should board if you do . It can be good to remind the gate you have bags checked when you get a seat . If you are flying on your own carrier or under your legacy brand , you generally have computer access to the passenger boarding totals . These can often be hard numbers of people booked , checked in and standbys listed . You can use this to gauge the likelihood of getting on a plane . If you are travelling offline then a carrier might have a phone number available but they may only tell you " it looks good ! " or " it looks bad " and will not divulge numbers . Once you are at the gate , you play the waiting game . You will have a boarding priority which may look something like this for a legacy carrier flight : Legacy pilots Legacy flight attendants Legacy retired pilots/FA The legacies regional contract pilots / FA Legacy spouse/parents/domestic partner/kids The regional contract spouse/parents/domestic partner/kids Codeshare pass agreements Buddy passes Interline passes Cabin jumpseats Cockpit jumpseats
Sure you can ! There 's nothing wrong with shooting practice approaches if you 're not instrument rated ( in the US , at least ) as long as you do n't actually accept an IFR clearance . You would probably be better off asking approach control for practice approaches rather than tower , if you have approach available to you .
Yes . The first published results of measurements made by <URL> of the <URL> on a flat disk can be found in the collection <URL> ( PDF ! ) . He reported on a hysteresis in the angle of attack range between 39 ° and 42 ° , where the wing is either stalled or not , depending from which side this angle of attack range is approached . <URL> Lift and pitching moment coefficients of a flat disk , page 97 of Ergebnisse IV When <URL> tested disk-shaped wings with an <URL> section in the early 1930s in the NACA 7 x 10 ft wind tunnel , he called them circular airfoils . The results of this testing can be found in <URL> ( PDF ! ) from August 1935 . <URL> Figures 10 and 11 from the last page of NACA TN 539 <URL> collected the little data available on circular wings in his book <URL> ( page 17-8 ) and concluded : Disregarding any dreams of " flying saucers " , the athletic implement called discus seems to be the only practical application of a circular planform . However , Zimmerman went on to inspire the <URL> , the " flying pancake " of 1942 , from which the <URL> was developed . <URL> Vought V-173 in flight ( picture <URL> )
The high energy air that passes through the slots prevents boundary layer separation over the top surface of the flap . Though , this increases drag but it improves the stall characteristics of the airfoil . In other words , we can have higher maximum lift coefficient ( Cl_max ) by having higher maximum angle of attack ( alpha_max ) . So , higher the number of slots higher Cl_max one could reach , there should be a limit . In case of a fixed weight of an aircraft , a higher lift coefficient implies that one can fly at lower speed before it stalls . A comparison between different types of flaps ( up to double slotted ) can be found in the book Aircraft Design and Performance by Anderson . Source : The same book .
Historically , avionics manufacturers have used off-the-shelf processors on custom circuit cards . Processor selection has been based on getting a reliable processor ( established history ) at a reasonable price and an expectation that it will be available for a long time . The high turnover ( obsolescence ) in processor design along with a lack of design integrity in commercial products is causing avionics companies to move towards custom chips . Though some products meet the integrity by using two dissimilar processors ( though it does n't address the obsolescence issue ) . I am aware of a number of older designs using 486 and PowerPC processors . Operating systems ( just like all the a/c software ) have to comply with the appropriate level of DO-178 ( currently rev C ) . In practical terms , that means the OS has to meet DO-178 Level A . There are a number of commercial solutions available . LynxOS-178 is one . Integrity-178 is available from Green Hills . Wind River also has a product available .
This varies from country to country but here in the US the Federal Aviation Regulations define the minimum safe altitudes : <URL> Except when necessary for takeoff or landing , no person may operate an aircraft below the following altitudes : ( a ) Anywhere . An altitude allowing , if a power unit fails , an emergency landing without undue hazard to persons or property on the surface . ( b ) Over congested areas . Over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement , or over any open air assembly of persons , an altitude of 1,000 feet above the highest obstacle within a horizontal radius of 2,000 feet of the aircraft . ( c ) Over other than congested areas . An altitude of 500 feet above the surface , except over open water or sparsely populated areas . In those cases , the aircraft may not be operated closer than 500 feet to any person , vessel , vehicle , or structure . ( d ) Helicopters , powered parachutes , and weight-shift-control aircraft . If the operation is conducted without hazard to persons or property on the surface -- ( 1 ) A helicopter may be operated at less than the minimums prescribed in paragraph ( b ) or ( c ) of this section , provided each person operating the helicopter complies with any routes or altitudes specifically prescribed for helicopters by the FAA ; and ( 2 ) A powered parachute or weight-shift-control aircraft may be operated at less than the minimums prescribed in paragraph ( c ) of this section . In your case , the sea-planes can fly closer than regulated since it falls under the " Except when necessary for takeoff and landing " clause . These minimums apply in all air spaces however different airspaces surrounding cities ( typically Class B and Class C ) may prevent you from ever getting within 1000ft ( or even a few miles ) of the city due to clearance . For example you ca n't get near a city under a bravo space without ATC clearance and even then you ca n't fly where you want like in other airspaces . but how is that and other private flying entities like news choppers News choppers and the like still must fly by these rules . They often compensate with bigger camera lenses . The somewhat exception to this rule is generally police , fire , and rescue/medical operation choppers/aircraft . This of course is taken on a case by case basis but ATC usually gives them precedent and clears them for whatever they ask within reason . I actually met a guy that was on the council that designed the Philadelphia Bravo Airspace . The airspace is specially designed so that the medical helicopters can take off and fly under the bravo shelf from any hospital in the city . They can do this and still be a safe distance from buildings as well . and ad-banner planes governed ? Banner towing planes , like helicopters must also fly by these rules . Although they are not seen in cities all too often I generally see them at the beach . Although beaches are generally not defined as a congested area and generally the planes are flying over " open water " thus they must be only 500ft from the people on the beach ( depending on how you interpret the law ) .
Pilots are allowed to fly as close as they want to each other as long as all parties agree to it and feel safe doing so . Air Traffic Control can not guarantee separation for planes in formation flight , So this will only be done under VFR and in VMC , where pilots can maintain visual separation from each other . Many stunt fliers are civilian pilots and will routinely fly in close formation as well . Other notable example of civilian formation flight include <URL> and <URL>
I will answer this for the US as that is the jurisdiction I know best . There are no airspace or ATC usage fees here in the US . The airspace and its resources are free for any plane of any size that conforms to the <URL> and is legal to fly in a given airspace . The <URL> for aircraft that fly through our airspace but neither land nor depart from the US . The only fee ( somewhat indirectly related but not a component of the airspace its self ) is for planes coming in from abroad who will need to pay <URL> . Strictly speaking you may be required to carry IFR charts or VFR charts on board to conduct the flight in question in US airspace . These must be <URL> . The FAA maintains them but the Pilot must pay for them . <URL> and they were purchased directly from them but this is no longer the case . If you extend the question to include airports the answer will drastically change for the US .
The most common failure leading to depressurization I 've personally seen is a pack/air cycle machine failure . The equipment that takes pressurized bleed air from the engine , cools and expands it . I 've seen it happen two ways . 1 ) The aircraft is dispatched with one pack on MEL and the second pack fails in flight or 2 ) The aircraft is flying at high altitude , 1 pack fails , the other pack switches to high flow mode and fails soon after . Pack failure is by far the most common I 've seen . But have also seen a couple failed fuselage skins and a few burst PAX windows . Typically door leaks are enough to be noisy as heck , but not depressurize the aircraft .
I 'm going to explain this for the Airbus ( also known as the Cockpit Door Locking System or CDLS ) : How exactly does the person on the inside " cancel the unlock process " ( Press a button , flip a switch , enter " counter code " , etc. . . ) If the code is entered for an emergency external opening , the pilot has 30 seconds after the request period to toggle the door button to lock to deny the request or the door will unlock . It pops back the the ' Norm ' position automatically . It seems there is a delay before the door opens . Is this correct ? What 's the duration of the delay ? 30 seconds , unless the lock button is pushed , in which case the request is inhibited for 5 minutes . What are the " authority levels " of codes ? Which levels exist , what do they mean ? What is the confidentiality policy regarding those codes in theory and practice ? ( Who gets what authority level code officially ? If stewards/stewardesses are not allowed to have the codes do pilots usually pass them on anyways ? ) There are indeed two codes , but I believe the normal access one is optional . The ( optional ) normal code just chimes the cockpit for an opening request , while a secret code to the best of my knowledge is shared among the crew to request emergency access . " There are two different access request types : " Routine " and " Emergency " access request . " These are however internal airline policies and differ from airline to airline , and I 've read in some cases that they might even have the same emergency code across the fleet . In any case , the pilot ( s ) can still decline access . Here is a <URL> as well . <URL> , Page 37 onwards . While the source suggests that the time can be changed , most sources I 've read refer to 5 minutes and 30 seconds as the standard times .
You are asking two very different , but related , questions : How is separation provided in procedural airspace ? ( that is , airspace where no surveillance exists ) What are the emergency procedures when a surveillance system fails ? I will address them in that order . There are three main types of separation : vertical separation , horizontal separation and separation in the vicinity of the aerodrome . I am going to assume you are not asking about separation in the vicinity of an aerodrome . We can divide horizontal separation further into three parts : lateral separation , longitudinal separation and radar separation . Obviously , radar separation does not apply in procedural airspace . Common for all separation types , when used in procedural airspace , is that they are based on position reports made by the pilots . When we do not have transponders to broadcast the position and level of flights , the pilots have to manually tell us where they are . Vertical separation is pretty straight forward . It is very easy to apply , and we often prefer vertical separation ( even in radar airspace ) , simply because it is so easy . Vertical separation is obtained by requiring aircraft to operate at different levels expressed in terms of flight levels or altitudes . In most areas today , 1000 feet is the minimum vertical separation . 2000 feet is still used as minimum in some places . For more details , you should research Reduced Vertical Separation Minima ( RVSM ) . Lateral Separation is obtained by requiring aircraft to fly on different routes or in different geographical locations , as determined by visual observations , use of navaids or RNAV equipment . The idea is , if two aircraft are flying in two different places , then they wo n't collide . One example of application of lateral separation is two aircraft flying on two different radials of the same VOR ( radio beacon ) . If the aircraft are established on radials diverging by at least 15 degrees and at least one aircraft is 15 NM or more from the VOR , they are separated - per definition , regardless of the actual distance between them . Another common example is approach procedures and different holding patterns . Certain procedures are designed in a way that ensures sufficient separation . For example , an NDB approach procedure might be separated from a nearby holding pattern . Again , we do not care about the actual distance between the aircraft - the two procedures are separated , by definition , if that is how they are designed . Longitudinal Separation is used for aircraft at the same level , flying on the same , reciprocal or crossing tracks . Longitudinal separation is based on time or distance . For example , two aircraft following the same route are separated if there is 15 minutes between them . That is , if aircraft A reports overhead point XYZ at 09:12 and aircraft B reports overhead point XYZ at 09:30 , they are separated . Now , 15 minutes is a long time , and it can be reduced in certain circumstances , but these are the kind of rules we have to follow in procedural airspace ( when vertical separation can not be used ) . There might be a hundred miles between two aircraft with 14 minutes between , but they are not separated . You can also base longitudinal separation on distance , if two aircraft are operating directly to or from the same DME ( distance measuring equipment ) . In this case , the minimum separation is 20 NM ( and can be reduced in some cases ) . In addition to the two above rules ( 15 minutes or 20 NM ) , there are many , many rules regarding crossing tracks , reciprocal tracks , separation during level changes , separation between aircraft with different speeds , and so on . Common for all of them is that the pilots will have to report their position , and then the controller has to apply separation in accordance with the rules . That sums up the separation methods and minima in procedural airspace . Now for your second question : what if radar airspace suddenly becomes procedural airspace as a result of a system failure ? Needless to say , this is extremely rare . Systems are very reliable , and there are backups , and backups of backups . That aside : The first thing to realise is that this would most likely be considered an emergency situation , which means that normal rules and regulations do not apply . Many pilots do n't realise this , but the word " mayday " is not actually reserved for pilot use only . You will likely hear a transmission from the ATC unit that sounds something like " Mayday , mayday , mayday , all stations , radar service terminated due to equipment failure , stop transmitting , standby for further instructions " . At this point , you should make sure the volume of your TCAS is turned up ... However , it is important to remember that controllers are trained to handle situations like this . Local procedures are different , but the controllers will either attempt to establish procedural separation , or transfer traffic to adjacent units , if they have radar available . Even when the system fails , the controller
I never landed at Courchevel , but did some aerobatic training in <URL> in the Giant Mountains of Silesia . What I learned was : A proper approach looks steeper than normal because the field inclination is steeper relative to the plane 's attitude . You need to flare sooner for two reasons : The sink speed relative to the rising ground is higher than normal , and The amount of pitch change needed to flare is larger . Even with airplanes which have a strong ground effect ( and where too fast a touchdown speed will normally result in a very long float ) the flare was short , as was the rollout distance . Do n't let speed bleed off too early , but stay on your approach speed until you are low enough to flare . Airports with slope sit on the sides of mountains . In many cases , the approach is already over rising terrain . When landing with a headwind , the wind will create a downdraft along the approach so the sink speed during the approach will be higher than normal . For glider pilots this is the biggest danger - once you are too low , you will hit the ground short of the runway . Most inclined runways show a variation in inclination along their length . This means that the relative sink speed and the necessary pitch change for a successful flare will vary with the touchdown point . Stay alert , no landing is routine ! The landing configuration and approach speed were not different from that on regular airports with level runways . Different was mostly the height at which the flare is begun . Also , at first I needed getting used to staying on my approach speed until I was low enough to flare - you need more energy to keep the airplane flying until it is level with the ground ( i.e. climbing uphill ! ) , so the final approach and flare must be executed precisely for a good landing . When I saw the runway at Zar for the first time I thought the location is sheer madness . After a few landings I learned to appreciate the benefits : Very short roll-outs and planes would land uphill only , so they come to a stop where the ( downhill ) take-off run could begin . But the approaches need to be precise ( we did mixed motor and glider flying ) especially with gliders if you want to keep your fellow glider students happy .
&#72; ello - your Friendly Neighborhood Parachute Rigger here . Sport chutes are pretty reliable , have been since the mid 90s to the point where more accidents happen under fully functional canopies . If we disregard rank stupidity like tying the flaps shut1 or incompetent packing we find that the leading cause of malfunctions is bad body position on deployment . You are supposed to be face down , shoulders level before opening the thing . If you are on your back or tumbling you can have various parts wrap around you . High-performance canopies are somewhat more sensitive to the shoulders being level and can open in a decently fast spin . Depending on the spin direction and your altitude you may not be able to recover2 . The emergency chutes are built differently , emphasizing ( obviously ) reliability over being able to land at 100km/h . This means that twisted lines are either recoverable or not an issue . If the jumper is n't paying attention to where he is , you may find that a leading cause of going splat is not using the perfectly good canopy on your back . Automatic activators have more-or-less eliminated this as a common cause3 , but if the jumper thinks that the houses look a bit too big and deploys the main at the same time as the reserve opens they may decide to wrap each other up . Ram-air canopies are like badgers - they do n't like each other very much and having two open at the same time is a rather delicate situation . If we turn to landing accidents , we find that there are all kinds of ways to injure or kill yourself with a fully functional canopy overhead . The aforementioned 100km/h landing speed is no joke - hit an obstacle on the ground going that fast and it 's exactly the same as jumping out of a car on the highway . Buildings , trees , power lines , vehicles , running propellers etc. have all claimed their sacrifices . And do n't try to land on both sides of the fence at the same time . Or in the alligator farm across the road . Mechanical failure of the system is very rare - riggers wo n't pack worn-out reserves , and if they are concerned about someone 's main they will tell the dropzone management who will usually decline to provide services until it 's fixed . Many jumpers will tie various handles to the pack before travelling . Prevents the pack accidentally opening when curious security or customs pick it up by what looks like the carry handle . Remove before Flight ! Happened to me twice - the first time I looked up , then down , decided I did n't have enough time to fix it . The second time it was spinning the other way and I fixed it in 2 seconds . Automatic activators fire at 750-1000 feet . If you are in freefall below that altitude you 're usually done .
There are no regulations that prohibit operating an ultralight ( or any other aircraft ) over a national park . We have <URL> and the same general answer would apply to any other national park . For ultralights specifically , the regulations are in <URL> which has only a few very simple restrictions on where ultralights can operate . 103.15 says you <URL> and other restrictions are the obvious ones : do n't fly near airports without ATC approval , do n't enter restricted airspace , and do follow NOTAMs . That means that - as with the Yosemite question above - it comes down to whether the national park in question is a congested area or not . Realistically , most parks where you might want to fly an ultralight probably are n't , so it 's very likely that you can fly over them at any altitude you like : part 91 does n't apply to ultralights , so the minimum altitudes mentioned in the Yosemite question would n't matter . There 's also <URL> to consider , which requests pilots to stay voluntarily above 2000 ' AGL . I do n't know whether it 's meant to include ultralights ( it 's a part 91 AC ) but it does n't really matter because the general guidance is definitely applicable to anything that flies : The intent of the 2,000 feet AGL recommendation is to reduce potential interference with wildlife and complaints of noise disturbances caused by low flying aircraft over noise-sensitive areas As you already mentioned , there might be restrictions on taking off and landing in a park or other public areas ( that 's an issue for <URL> , <URL> and <URL> too ) , but those would be non-FAA regulations .
No , for two reasons : Speed of sound is always relative to the material the sound propagates in ; it moves faster through denser media , such as the aluminum structure of the aircraft itself . The aircraft 's structure moves with the aircraft , so the vibrations of the jet engines will be transmitted to the cockpit/cabin at the same speed as when the airplane were flying subsonic . The air inside the cockpit is still , and so sound within this local bubble is unaffected by the speed of the bubble itself ( and so sound can travel faster than sound ) . If this were n't true then radios and other cockpit sound sources like alarms would be inaudible at supersonic speeds , which would be a major safety hazard and tactical disadvantage to supersonic flight . You actually do n't even have any significant aural cues inside the cockpit that you 've exceeded Mach 1 ; you have to rely on your airspeed gauge to tell you .
We all know the saying " From High to Low , Look out below " Some were taught that this only applied to pressure differences and thus were instructed to get a new altimeter setting every 100NM or so . This is a good recommendation . Temperature differences from standard also causes errors with the altimeter . The same saying above holds true with temperature variations . An altimeter setting is defined as : ( ref . Pilot/Controller Glossary ) The barometric pressure reading used to adjust a pressure altimeter for variations in existing atmospheric pressure or to the standard altimeter setting ( 29.92 ) . We also know there is a direct correlation between pressure and temperature and thus an altimeter setting is corrected for both pressure and temperature . This means one thing , the altimeter error is zero at the field elevation . As the aircraft gets climbs higher above the field , the altimeter error will increase . There is a table in the Aeronautical Information Manual ( 7-2-8 ) that lists altimeter error due to temperature as a function of altitude ( AGL ) and temperature . Here is the formula that will give you this table . The formula can be found in <URL> . The United States Air Force has a <URL> that discusses this topic . The FAA has recently come out with <URL> which requires pilots ( after 9/17/2015 ) who fly into " Cold Temperature Restricted Airports " to correct their altitudes for colder than standard temperatures . To determine if your airport is part of this program you must go to the <URL> and search for Cold Temperature Restricted Airports . There should be a link at the bottom of the page . Here is a graphic showing all the airports in the United States that were part of the program in February 2015 . Because Lnafziger wanted Alaska . Not only is the pilot required to correct for the segment but they are also required to inform ATC of the new altitudes they will fly . This is to ensure traffic separation with other airplanes who are not temperature correcting their altimeters . Pictures taken with permission from <URL> . All rights reserved .
The afterburner , of course . In simplest sense , the afterburner is just an extension attached to the engine where the fuel is dumped into the exhaust , resulting in an inefficient but huge increase in thrust . <URL> Turbojet with and without afterburner ; image from <URL> In the above image , you can see the basic schematic of the afterburner - it basically consists of a long tube placed in between the turbine and the nozzle in which additional fuel is added and burned . The ( afterburner ) tube is quite simple , consisting of mechanisms to spray fuel into the exhaust and ignite it . This image shows an actual afterburner , from the F/A -18 ( F404 engine ) . As you can see , its quite simple . <URL> ... sailor Ryan Draper ... inspects an F/A -18 afterburner in the jet shop aboard the Nimitz-class aircraft carrier USS George Washington ( CVN 73 ) . Image from <URL>
My experience transitioning from airplanes to helicopters and then to gliders is that I never forget what I 'm flying . I know that sounds obvious , but its no different than the difference between driving a car with automatic transmission and manual , riding a motorcycle which has all the controls in a different place than a car and <URL> , and flying an airplane . I do n't reach for the throttle when I want to slow down in a car , and I do n't turn the wheel in the direction of the turn when I 'm riding a motorcycle . Similarly , when taking off in an airplane , I know I have to add power and pull back a bit to get it off the ground , and in a helicopter I inch the nose forward to gain <URL> . The reason I do n't act/react improperly when flying different aircraft is that it 's all been trained into my muscle memory to do the right thing depending on the circumstances . I do n't think of the horn in a helicopter as a stall horn , just like the buzzer in my alarm clock and smoke alarm are not stall horns . The horn in the heli is a low-rpm horn , and I ease the stick back not forward . Another complication is instrument flight . Although I am an instrument rated airplane pilot , I have a little hood time in a helicopter . I 'm so used to flying pitch and power against the AI that all my instincts under the hood in the heli were completely wrong . Nevertheless , I do n't think I 'll ultimately have any trouble flying instruments well in a heli .
Angle of Attack is the angle between the chord line of the airfoil and the relative wind . The elevator is also a " wing " in the effect that it is an airfoil . 1 ) Then what is the angle between the chord line of the elevator and relative wind ? Because if I am not wrong , by pitching the elevator up , the wing of an aircraft is subjected to the ' angle of attack ' . It 's also called " Angle Of Attack " . Pitching the elevator up also changes the angle of attack of the elevator . There are such conditions as elevator stall , although much less common than wing stall . 2 ) When you say angle of attack exceed critical angle of attack , is it because the elevator is pitched up thus creating wider angle between the chord line and the relative direction of the wind ? The " Critical AoA " is the angle at which the airfoil is generating the most lift . [ <URL> ] : The critical angle of attack is the angle of attack which produces maximum lift coefficient . This is also called the " stall angle of attack " . Below the critical angle of attack , as the angle of attack increases , the coefficient of lift ( Cl ) increases . At the same time , above the critical angle of attack , as angle of attack increases , the air begins to flow less smoothly over the upper surface of the airfoil and begins to separate from the upper surface Usually when you exceed the critical AoA , the air on the upper surface of the airfoil de-laminates and becomes turbulent . This results in a loss of lift ( stall ) . <URL> <URL> 3 ) In the Air France 447 accident , the PF kept saying , keeps the wings level . What does it mean ? How can the wings be leveled when the angle of attack is so high ? Does keeping the wings level means reducing the angle of attack to zero ? I 'm not sure what context you are talking about . I 've read the transcripts pretty carefully and I do n't recall the PF saying to keep the wings level . The Captain said to descend , while the PF was trying to climb . The SIC was pushing the stick forward while the PF was pulling back , causing the wings to remain level ( or at a slight climb ) . Keeping the wings level ( avoiding an un-coordinated turn ) in a stall condition is the best way to avoid putting the aircraft into a spin . This is possibly what they meant , although they did n't know that they were in a stall ( or if they did , they were not reacting to it appropriately ) . Yes , leveling the wings would be making the AoA at zero ( zero meaning where the airfoil is developing lift , and depending on the bank angle ) , but only if there were positive airspeed to make the relative wind parallel with the chord . In the case of AF447 , the aircraft was falling out of the sky at a spectacular 15,000 FPM , which means that the relative wind to the airfoil was basically perpendicular . They did n't have the forward airspeed to change the AoA , so they should have lowered the nose to gain airspeed and decrease the AoA . The important thing to remember is that the pitch angle of the aircraft is not the same as the AoA . You can take an aircraft at zero forward speed and drop it straight down , the pitch angle will be zero but the AoA will be perpendicular .
Blasting areas are not subject to particular regulation , they can be depicted on charts and announced by NOTAMs . It 's pilot responsibility to remain clear of these areas : <URL> Source : <URL> Known permanent blasting activities can be depicted on VFR charts and announced by NOTAM until charts can be updated . From <URL> : The " VFR Chart Updating Data " section of the CFS provides a means of notifying VFR chart users of significant aeronautical information to update the current VFR aeronautical charts . In this regard , significant aeronautical information is considered to be that which affects the safety of VFR operation , e.g. obstructions , restricted and advisory areas , blasting operations , cable crossings , and new or revised control zones . New or revised information of this nature , which is required to be depicted on visual charts , is advertised by NOTAM until such time as the information can be published in the " VFR Chart Updating Data " section of the CFS . Subsequently , the NOTAM is cancelled . However temporary or itinerant blasting activities may not be advertised . From the <URL> : Another concern to low flying is the blasting operations associated with the logging industry . The trajectory of debris from the blasting varies with the type of explosives , substance being excavated and the canopy of trees , if any . These blasting activities may or may not be advertised by NOTAM . Minimum safe altitudes do n't take blast risk into account . From the Canada Air Pilot publication : " CYA , CYR and known blasting areas are not considered in the establishment of MSA altitudes . For this reason , it is the pilot 's responsibility to remain clear of these areas as applicable " Source : <URL> More : See this discussion : <URL> .
end question
start question
More than one runway with the same heading . How are they labelled ?
Left , right and centre . For example , Heathrow has 27 left ( 27L ) and right and 09 left ( 09L ) and right . <URL> <URL> Here 's an example for an airfield with a 34 left runway . <URL> If there are more than three runways more or less parallel , one or more runway numbers will be shifted by 10 degrees , e.g. 08L , 08C , 08R , 09R . From <URL> At large airports with four or more parallel runways ( for example , at Los Angeles , Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County , Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta , Denver , Dallas-Fort Worth and Orlando ) some runway identifiers are shifted by 10 degrees to avoid the ambiguity that would result with more than three parallel runways . For example , in Los Angeles , this system results in runways 6L , 6R , 7L , and 7R , even though all four runways are actually parallel ( approximately 69 degrees ) . At Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport , there are five parallel runways , named 17L , 17C , 17R , 18L , and 18R , all oriented at a heading of 175.4 degrees . Occasionally , an airport with only 3 parallel runways may use different runway identifiers , for example when a third parallel runway was opened at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport in 2000 to the south of existing 8R/26L , rather than confusingly becoming the " new " 8R/26L it was instead designated 7R/25L , with the former 8R/26L becoming 7L/25R and 8L/26R becoming 8/26 .
There is no reason to limit the number of anti-shock bodies to 3 or 4 . In most modern aircraft , the anti-shock bodies are the flap track fairings which usually house the flap mechanisms . As such , their number is determined by among other things , the wingspan , the size of control surfaces and the number of actuators required for their actuation etc. . This usually limits their number to around 4 due to weight and other considerations . However , there is no reason there should only be 3 or 4 of them . For example , the <URL> has a whole lot of them . <URL> Source : www.avioners.net
Using TLAR ( That Looks About Right ) . Pilot turns off a runway onto a taxiway spur and sees the runway safety area lines and just estimates a point beyond roughly equal to or greater than the length of the fuselage and places the cockpit over that point . Other methods include geo-referenced airport diagrams on a moving map display showing the position of the aircraft .
No , it is not negligent . Landing performance data assumes no thrust reverser usage and thrust reversers can be dispatched inoperative per the Minimum Equipment List ( MEL ) with a logbook entry and possibly the inoperative reverser mechanically locked/disabled . With a single thrust reverse operative , depending on the aircraft and airline ops , the other one may or may not be used . If it is used , caution in maintaining directional control during landing is advised . Any such stipulations will be part of the MEL verbiage . A proper MEL action will consist of a logbook entry by the pilots or maintenance , a logbook sign-off by maintenance and dispatch notification of the MEL . Thus , the pilots , maintenance and dispatch are all aware of the issue . Lastly , and special requirements of the MEL will be noted by the crew when they consult the MEL book after noticing the MEL in the logbook and in the dispatch paperwork . In the airplane I am familiar with you could visually note the thrust reverser locking bolt during the walk-around inspection to verify that maintenance had done its job properly . This also presented a nice opportunity to query the First Officer and see how well they were paying attention during the inspection . The situation would only be negligent if proper procedures were ignored .
Yes . <URL> To be eligible for a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating you must : ( a ) Be at least 18 years old . ( b ) Be able to read , speak , write , and understand English . If you can not read , speak , write , and understand English because of medical reasons , the FAA may place limits on your certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of light-sport aircraft . ( c ) Hold at least a sport pilot certificate with category and class ratings or privileges , as applicable , that are appropriate to the flight instructor privileges sought . A CFI never needs a medical certificate . It is not required for the operation of that certificate . A medical certificate may be required if the CFI has additional roles . For example , the CFI also is acting as the legal pilot in command . A sport pilot acting as the legal pilot in command does not need a medical . <URL> ( b ) Operations not requiring a medical certificate . A person is not required to hold a medical certificate -- ( 1 ) When exercising the privileges of a student pilot certificate while seeking -- ( i ) A sport pilot certificate with glider or balloon privileges ; or ( ii ) A pilot certificate with a glider category rating or balloon class rating ; ( 2 ) When exercising the privileges of a sport pilot certificate with privileges in a glider or balloon ; ( 3 ) When exercising the privileges of a pilot certificate with a glider category rating or balloon class rating in a glider or a balloon , as appropriate ; ( 4 ) When exercising the privileges of a flight instructor certificate with -- ( i ) A sport pilot rating in a glider or balloon ; or ( ii ) A glider category rating ; ( 5 ) When exercising the privileges of a flight instructor certificate if the person is not acting as pilot in command or serving as a required pilot flight crewmember ; ( 6 ) When exercising the privileges of a ground instructor certificate ; To answer your questions . A sport pilot or CFI will never need a medical because the operation does not require a medical but a valid driver 's license . A glider pilot or CFI never needs a medical or drivers license , if I am reading the regulation correctly . A sport CFI does not require a CPL as does a regular CFI . The CPL requirement is found under part 61 subpart H Subpart H -- Flight Instructors Other than Flight Instructors With a Sport Pilot Rating § 61.183 Eligibility requirements . To be eligible for a flight instructor certificate or rating a person must : ( c ) Hold either a commercial pilot certificate or airline transport pilot certificate with : But subpart H specifies Other than Flight Instructors With a Sport Pilot Rating . The rules for sport CFI are found in subpart K where no such requirement is found . ( see 61.403 above ) It does not relieve the pilot or CFI from adhering to <URL> though .
It really is something <URL> the Buran ' takeoff ' versus ' liftoff ' . The answer is no . Given the same weight it should be roughly the same power needed . That is if we are calculating it from the point of rotation for a takeoff and point of initiating a go-around . Given the same starting conditions -- weight and velocity -- both aircraft will have the same kinetic energy . If the takeoff / go-around is to 2,000 feet above starting condition , then the change will be the same gain in potential energy . If they take the same time to reach that height , then it is the same power used . ( Ignoring ground effect . ) The objective of the 2 engines would be to extend the glide distance for a space reentry , say if an incorrect calculation or unforeseen event caused the space glider to come short . A corrective action would need to be applied not close to the ground , but high enough to have a meaningful effect .
The 737 does not have a separate AHRS . Those functions are simply outputs from the two IRS 's . <URL> ( <URL> ) 737 IRS panel . ATT ( attitude ) mode selects the AHRS-only output of the IRS .
Are they really ? In a high wing aircraft the center of lift is above the center of gravity . This will not increase stability when the aircraft banks , however , as you rightly say , will help once the aircraft is in a sideslip . In order to keep the fuselage at an angle to the airflow , the wing has now to create a sideways lift component , which it does by flying at an angle to the horizontal . This roll angle of the aircraft will shift the center of gravity sideways , so it is not exactly below the center of lift , but offset laterally . This lateral offset seems to produce a rolling moment which works against the roll angle . Below I sketched the major forces in a sideslip . Note that the aircraft has a sideways speed component which creates a side force on fuselage and tail ( green ) which needs to be counteracted by the sideways component of lift ( blue ) . <URL> Short Sandringham in sideslip ( based on <URL> ) But still the weight ( black ) is attacking at the center of gravity , so it will not roll the aircraft , and the lift is in the vertical plane of symmetry , so it , too , will not create a rolling moment . Ergo , we have no stabilizing effect due to the high wing location ! In a sideslip of a high-wing aircraft the <URL> . This would indeed create a rolling moment because it will shift the center of lift sideways , out of the plane of symmetry . In a static sideslip the pilot will deflect the ailerons to maintain the roll angle as well as the rudder to maintain the sideslip , shifting the lift vector back into the vertical plane of symmetry . Now any stabilizing effect of the lift asymmetry is on purpose cancelled by the pilot ! However , this is achieved in a low wing airplane by adding dihedral . Therefore , a low wing aircraft can easily be made as stable as a high wing aircraft in a sideslip . You will notice that the lateral aerodynamic force ( green ) acts above the center of gravity and <URL> . This is dictated by the location of the vertical tail , which contributes little to the location of the center of gravity , but produces a considerable share of the lateral force ( reduced in the sideslip case by rudder deflection , however ) . This rolling moment , though , is almost independent of wing location . In a low wing , the center of gravity will be lower in total , especially when the engines are mounted on the wing , so the rolling moment contribution of the vertical tail is somewhat higher . The effect is small in a sideslip since the rudder deflection means that the fuselage contributes the majority of the side force . And this is not the pendulum effect which you asked about and which does not exist . In airships , <URL> , however : Since buoyancy always acts against gravity , a lateral offset of the heavy gondola will create an uprighting moment , just as it does in a pendulum . When turning , the heavy gondola will be pulled sideways by centrifugal forces , and the airship will roll . Since the turn is commanded with rudder , the rotation will give the rudder a small nose-down moment , which must be compensated by a nose-up elevator command . The pendulum effect will ensure that the gondola is at the lowest point in straight flight . P.S. : Thanks to the hint of @kepler22b I have now discovered the <URL> on Wikipedia . It also mentions the pendulum effect and calls both the fuselage contribution to the dihedral effect . Man , if there is ever a competition for the most misleading name of an effect , this would be the winning entry . A pendulum is a mass mounted below the hinge point , so it will stabilize in the down position . A flying aircraft is not hinged , so all motion is around the center of gravity . There simply is no pendulum effect in aircraft .
The most important point is that if any ATC instruction is n't clear then you should just ask them to repeat or clarify it . Having said that , turning in the shorter direction is <URL> in the FAA 's <URL> : FLY HEADING ( DEGREES ) - Informs the pilot of the heading he/she should fly . The pilot may have to turn to , or continue on , a specific compass direction in order to comply with the instructions . The pilot is expected to turn in the shorter direction to the heading unless otherwise instructed by ATC . In my personal experience , ATC almost always say left or right for heading changes if you 're on an approach or departure , but sometimes leave it out if you 're in cruise . That makes sense to me : the busier the airspace the more they want to make sure that you do n't turn the wrong way .
For one , do n't only look at the engine , but at the whole propulsion system . This includes tanks , piping , controls , pumps and the actual engine . Now the rocket looks much less favorable , especially if you size the tanks for equal running times . The rocket does not need any of the parts which are ahead of the combustion chamber of a jet and also does not need the turbine . Also , being designed for full thrust only , it does not need an adjustable nozzle . Please look below at the engine installation of a typical airliner ( I tried but could not find a fitting cross section of a turbojet plus intake ) : <URL> Jet engine and nacelle cutaway drawing ( picture <URL> ) Only the part labeled " combustor " and the section aft of the turbine are actually comparable to a rocket engine - all else is needed to condition and compress air or drive the turbo machinery in front . A rocket enjoys the luxury of being fed propellant and oxidizer at just the right ratio , condition and at high pressure , and since the oxidizer is mostly pure liquid oxygen , the turbo pumps for compressing it can be much smaller than the turbo machinery of a jet which works with an 80 % nitrogen - 20 % oxygen mixture of gasses .
It depends on the type of bird and mammal species in native to the area and also the type of grass used in turfing ; some of them may not survive if mowed very closely . FAA 's <URL> concedes : Species-specific responses may be expected . ... Airport managers need to work with airport wildlife biologists to determine what species of concern in regards to aircraft safety are in their area and what the habitat needs are for those species . For most airports , FAA recommends a height of 5-8 " of grass . Considering bird , mammal and vegetation limitations , mowing at least monthly at a target of 5 - 8 inches may work in many airport environments as part of a wildlife hazard management program . ... Mowing at 5 - 8 inches should also reduce small mammal abundance .
This is how I explain it , hopefully it helps more than hinders ! Heading : This is where my nose points - and seeing as my nose is attached to my head , this is where my head ( and thus my machine ) is pointing relative to North . Course : This is my INTENDED path of travel that I have calculated taking into consideration winds , variation and declination . Track : This is my ACTUAL path traveled over ground - just like a set of tracks I would leave behind in the snow or sand , relative to North Bearing : This is the angle between the location of an object , machine or destination and either : - my heading . This is called ' Relative Bearing ' . - or magnetic north ( direction toward the magnetic north pole ) . This is called ' Magnetic Bearing ' . So from the picture , if I take off from Springfield enroute to Shelbyville . My course ( the intended path ) is due East , or 090 degrees . I notice my winds are Southerly ( from 183 degrees / to 003 degrees ) , so I make my heading 095 degrees to compensate for wind drift ( or 5 degrees crab into the wind ) . If my calculations are bang on , my track should be the same as my course , however I misjudged the winds , finding out my resulting track over the ground is 081 degrees - I must correct ( by increasing ) my heading to get back on course . Now with some airports , the navaids ( NDB or VOR ) are not directly at the airfield but some distance away , so if I wanted to either fly directly to the NDB or figure out my position in space during enroute nav checks , I would take the bearing to the NDB/VOR either relative to my heading or relative to magnetic north to find its position . Hope this helps .
Does the position of the controls for the second motor really influence the behaviour of the first one ? No , it influences the activation of various other systems like the autothrust , the airbrakes , as well as the thrust reversers . how it is more efficient ? Because in the new procedure the engine with non-functioning reverser starts to spool up before the system realizes the reverser did not deploy and cuts it again , so for a moment it produces forward thrust . The old procedure avoids this .
From this PPRune forum <URL> , the Boeing 777 does use ultrasonic sensors ( some 20 per tank ) This airplane has some 20 sensors per tank . Each of these is effectively a " radio doppler " and works on the same principle . The sensor calculates the height of fluid by measuring the difference in the speed of the sonic signal sent out thru one sensor to another , as against the ACTUAL local speed of sound ( which is a preset value ) thru standard temp air.This difference is then converted very accurately into height in the tank in mm.Which translates into quantity of fuel AT THAT sensor given the actual specific gravity of fuel at that point . - King on a Wing
Left , right and centre . For example , Heathrow has 27 left ( 27L ) and right and 09 left ( 09L ) and right . <URL> <URL> Here 's an example for an airfield with a 34 left runway . <URL> If there are more than three runways more or less parallel , one or more runway numbers will be shifted by 10 degrees , e.g. 08L , 08C , 08R , 09R . From <URL> At large airports with four or more parallel runways ( for example , at Los Angeles , Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County , Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta , Denver , Dallas-Fort Worth and Orlando ) some runway identifiers are shifted by 10 degrees to avoid the ambiguity that would result with more than three parallel runways . For example , in Los Angeles , this system results in runways 6L , 6R , 7L , and 7R , even though all four runways are actually parallel ( approximately 69 degrees ) . At Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport , there are five parallel runways , named 17L , 17C , 17R , 18L , and 18R , all oriented at a heading of 175.4 degrees . Occasionally , an airport with only 3 parallel runways may use different runway identifiers , for example when a third parallel runway was opened at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport in 2000 to the south of existing 8R/26L , rather than confusingly becoming the " new " 8R/26L it was instead designated 7R/25L , with the former 8R/26L becoming 7L/25R and 8L/26R becoming 8/26 .
You 're almost certainly talking about a <URL> , who is just an airport ( FBO ) employee who gives information to pilots on their request . The FAA 's Pilot Handbook <URL> : UNICOM is a nongovernment air/ground radio communication station which may provide airport information at public use airports where there is no tower or FSS . On pilot request , UNICOM stations may provide pilots with weather information , wind direction , the recommended runway , or other necessary information . If the UNICOM frequency is designated as the CTAF , it will be identified in appropriate aeronautical publications . The important point is that UNICOM is not ATC . A UNICOM operator can not give you instructions , clearances or require you to do anything . He can only give you information , and as PIC it 's up to you to decide how to use that information . The <URL> that Porcupine911 <URL> is a great example of that . A student pilot thought that UNICOM was telling him which runway to land on , whereas in fact the operator was only recommending a runway ( presumably based on the prevailing wind or whatever ) . Unfortunately , the operator recommended the opposite runway to the one that was actually in use by other pilots . Like pilots , UNICOM operators vary in their experience and competence . A good UNICOM operator ( in my opinion ) will give you the local wind and altimeter information , tell you if there are other aircraft in the pattern or nearby , tell you which runway is in use by those aircraft , and give you any essential safety information ( like a closed runway ) . But as PIC , I 'm still going to listen to CTAF and AWOS and look for other traffic before choosing a runway and joining the pattern . It 's also common for no one to reply to a UNICOM call ( because the operator is out fueling aircraft in his other role as lineman , for example ) , in which case you 're going to have to sort things out without it anyway . So there 's no need to " report " anything : UNICOM operators are a well-known and official service , but you have to know how to use them and what their limitations are .
Every blade will create its own boundary layer and its own vortex sheet . It is more efficient to use fewer blades with deeper chord , because the forward part of a boundary layer contributes most to friction drag . To keep the lift coefficient on the propeller blade sections in a reasonable range ( 0.6 to 1.0 ) for efficiency means that blade chord will be reduced , which will make them less stiff . Again , it will be better to reduce blade count to arrive at a more viable design . All the thrust the propeller creates is pulling on those skinny blades , and they must be strong enough to withstand this force . Only when the propeller disc loading increases do more blades begin to make sense : When engine power increases , the propeller disc area should also grow , but this growth is limited by the resulting speed of the blade tips . Once the flow speed there becomes supersonic , the drag at this section of the blade increases without a corresponding increase in thrust . To avoid that the next best option is to increase the solidity ratio of the propeller , called also the <URL> . Make no mistake , this is bad for efficiency . But if there is enough power available , adding more blades is the best way out . You are right , a lower prop speed allows to increase its diameter , but while tip speed will drop by less than the reduction in prop speed ( after all , flight speed should not change ) , the available thrust from this propeller will drop by the square of the speed reduction , since thrust is proportional to the dynamic pressure on the blades . And thrust you get only from the circumferential fraction of the local speed at the blade ; flight speed does not count here and does not help to mitigate the reduction .
The fuel used by civilian airlines , fueled in the USA , is <URL> . To acquire some , go to a nearby airport which can handle operations by Turboprop or Turbofan aircraft . Some of the smaller airports , only supporting piston aircraft operations , may not be able to help you , but anything which can handle a Lear Jet should be able to supply you with examples of it . There 's no specific chemical formula for this . It is a mixture of a variety of compounds . And no , you ca n't isolate just one particular compound and use it as a representative sample . There are reasons for the various additives , and all of them will have SOME effect on the burn characteristics . Try not to breathe the fumes , before or after combustion . Do not operate any kind of radio transmitter ( including a cellphone ) within 50 feet of the vapors of it ( when the fuel is exposed to air , before or during combustion ) . Make sure that whatever vessel you 're going to burn it in is metal ( plastic does n't respond well to burning petrochemicals :-) and make sure there is good electrical conductivity between the vessel and the ground . Have a large , CO2 - or Halon-based ( NOT water or dry chemical ) fire extinguisher nearby . When I was refueling F-16s in the Air Force : no radio transmitters ( walkie talkies , at the time ) were allowed with 50 feet of refueling operation the aircraft and the refueling vehicle BOTH had to be grounded and connected to each other BEFORE connecting the refueling line no refueling ops were permitted if there was lightning within 5 miles no refuelings ops were permitted without a 50-pound halon-based fire extinguisher and a dedicated person ( fire guard ) to man it This should give you some idea of proper safety around this stuff .
Yes and no . When you say EGPWS that is a trademark of Honeywell , so all EGPWS systems are made by Honeywell . The fine print is the the requirement <URL> is for a Terrain Awareness and Warning System ( TAWS ) . The TSO functionally describes the Honeywell system . ( Honeywell actually designed it before the FAA decided it was a necessary addition to the rules . ) Since implementing the standard would most likely require the use of Honeywell proprietary information ( patents ) , Honeywell is legally required to provide the product it to all customers on a non-discriminatory basis . As a result , even though Rockwell Collins provides the Integrated Surveillance System ( ISS ) for the B787 , the TAWS component of the ISS is sourced by Collins from Honeywell . That said , Thales was able to patent a similar system in France about the same time . There were lawsuits , and in the end they agreed to let each other exist . ACSS ( a joint venture between L-3 Comm and Thales ) sells TAWS units in the US that is based on the Thales system , so there is an alternative to Honeywell . Thales does sell their system outside the US . Some of the primary Honeywell patents for the EGPWS have recently expired or are about to expire . So there may be some new alternatives soon . Of course Honeywell has been making ' upgrades ' beyond the regulatory requirements which they have been patenting . These may help them hold their market share . So no , there is not a single system to meet the requirement . OTOH , there 's not much competition either .
Just to roll around on " unimproved " airfields ( grass/dirt/gravel strips ) , the biggest thing planes need is simply a decent set of tires : <URL> This MiG-29UN trainer shows off the fairly beefy main tires put on these planes specifically to allow them to more easily roll over minor imperfections in the runway/taxiway surface , including dirt/gravel/grass strips ( though here it 's landing on a traditional asphalt/concrete surface ) . Compare these to the relatively small gear wheels and low-aspect rubber on the similarly-sized F-16 : <URL> Now , your question oversimplifies things , because " foreign object debris " or FOD is in fact a primary danger of unpaved airstrips for jets , and this danger has to be accounted for in the design . Here 's the main reason the MiG-29 can take off from dirt : <URL> <URL> MiG-29s and similarly-minded Su-27s , and their variants , have special doors to close off the lower intakes normally used in flight , instead drawing in air through the gill-like ports over the top of the wing strakes . This prevents the engine from ingesting dust , rocks , birds , rodents , etc on takeoff and landing . This engine protection system , while effective , adds mechanical complexity and weight which U.S. designers and military brass have generally thought unnecessary given that requirements rarely include the ability to operate from unimproved strips . Most U.S. fighters in the jet age , therefore , have had to operate from airbases with some form of paved runway surface ( and the U.S. military actually has higher standards for runway surface quality than most international airports ) . The U.S. arsenal does , however , have several aircraft that are specifically designed to operate from rudimentary airstrips at forward bases . These designs avoid FOD damage primarily by keeping the engines up as high as the design will allow . For instance , the A-10 's two engines are on pods angled up on the fuselage between the wings and tail for a variety of reasons including FOD avoidance : <URL> Most of the other designs in the Western arsenal that can do this are high-wing designs with wing-mounted engines , which keep them out of the dust produced by takeoff and landing in a similar fashion . Here are a C-130 and C-17 landing at an Afghanistan forward base : <URL> <URL> The Harrier is a notable exception to this general strategy by Western designers of just keeping the engines out of any debris cloud . While it 's probably not done routinely , a Harrier can set down just about anywhere , and as this picture shows , it ingests no small amount of dust in the process : <URL>
end question
start question
Do we have a unit to measure turbulence ?
Turbulence can be quantitatively expressed as Eddy Dissipation Rate ( EDR ) . EDR can be calculated from available onboard measurements , however it is not yet common for aircraft to have software to calculate the EDR . Originally it was thought to have <URL> , but it did not become a part of the current specifications . It might be in the next ADS-B version . <URL> <URL>
I have worked on large and small aircraft . You will find a 400hz power bus only on large aircraft . The reason is the greater quantity of poles in the generator and hence weight . Smaller aircraft use a 28v DC system for the avionics .
From a private pilot 's perspective , there are two possible options : a foreign-based license or a ' full ' FAA pilot 's license . The first type is defined in <URL> , which starts like this : § 61.75 Private pilot certificate issued on the basis of a foreign pilot license . ( a ) General . A person who holds a foreign pilot license at the private pilot level or higher that was issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation may apply for and be issued a U.S. private pilot certificate with the appropriate ratings if the foreign pilot license meets the requirements of this section . You apply to the FAA and they check with Germany ( or wherever ) that your foreign license is valid . If it is , they 'll issue a foreign-based license " with the appropriate ratings " with no flight or theory test of any kind required . That 's for VFR only ; if you 're instrument rated then you also have to do a theory test as well if you want to fly IFR . That sounds great - and I suppose it is - but there are two big practical concerns . First , any limitations on the foreign license are applied , e.g. if your license is for daytime VFR only then you 're still restricted to that , even if a regular FAA license would allow night VFR . And if your foreign license expires or becomes invalid for any reason , the FAA one does too . Second , you wo n't have been required to learn anything about US regulations or flying practices . So you might not fly safely or legally because you simply do n't know the rules or even what services are available to you as a pilot ( FSS , Flight Following , TRSA etc. ) . One way to handle this is to get some general orientation or introductory training from a US instructor or school , but as a foreigner that will require TSA approval unless you can do it as ground school only ( which is <URL> as " flight training " ) . But you might find - as I did - that some instructors will not work with a foreign student at all until they have TSA approval , whether or not it 's just ground work . The other option is to get a normal , full FAA license . You have to pass the same FAA medical , written and flight tests as US pilots to the same <URL> . You can count your previous flight time towards the required hours but you do need to be able to pass the tests so you will certainly need some instruction . And as a foreigner you will need TSA approval before you can receive any flight training . The big advantage of getting a full license is that it never expires . If you really want to get one and you have the time and money then you could look into spending a month somewhere suitable in the US ( Florida ? Arizona ? ) at a flight school to get it as quickly and cheaply as possible .
The estimated off block time , EOBT , which is the time at which the flight is planned to leave the gate at the departure airport , has a validity of + / -15 minutes . If the plane is not able to depart within this window , the company must send a new ATC flightplan with an updated EOBT . In some cases a calculated takeoff time , CTOT , is issued to a flight . This is the exact time the plane must begin its takeoff roll . It is given based on airspace or airport congestion along the planned route of the flight , to prevent overload in individual ATC sectors . The flight must begin its takeoff roll within -5 / +10 minutes of the CTOT . If unable to comply , a new CTOT must be requested .
I assume that you 're asking about piston engine light aircraft , so we can ignore gliders and electric engines for now . The basic point is that they 're all loud . <URL> compared a Cessna 172 ( single engine ) and a Piper Seminole ( twin engine ) and found that the average cabin noise was around 86 <URL> , with no huge difference between the two aircraft . There 's more analysis of a Seminole <URL> . The FAA <URL> that a light aircraft cabin is in the range of 70-90dB and <URL> measured 92-98dB in different Cirrus models . <URL> in the US <URL> ear protection and other measures for workers if the noise in their environment is 85dB or more . Since decibels are on a logarithmic scale , the difference between 86dB and 98dB is large . But I searched a few aviation forums and there 's very little discussion of cabin noise in light singles apart from a few subjective remarks . I could n't find any good sources that said one aircraft type is well known as being noisier or quieter than average . The only consistent comment is that helicopters are louder than fixed-wing aircraft , which is also shown in the FAA document linked above . Having said that , there are quite a few articles online about soundproofing aircraft in different ways . <URL> quotes the example of a jet : Aero Sound Shield is currently soundproofing a particularly large corporate jet - a converted McDonnell-Douglas MD-87 - for a Las Vegas hotel owner who is almost totally blind and who has compensated by developing extremely sensitive hearing . " He wants a 60-dB airplane , which is quieter than a Lexus , " Nelson points out . But the same article makes the point that modifying any aircraft to add soundproofing increases the weight to a point that makes the aircraft much less useful : Unfortunately , your airplane and mine ca n't accept the mass and weight of MD-87 measures . " I rode one time in a Piper Arrow that was very quiet , " Nelson recalls , " but it was completely lead-lined . It could carry two people and half a load of fuel . That was fine for that guy , because that 's all he ever wanted to carry , but it was n't very practical . " Furthermore , it 's worth remembering that modern noise-cancelling headsets are very good so the problem of noise ( as opposed to vibration , which is also a factor for fatigue and health ) has been more or less solved for most people . Even if you spend $ 1000 or more on a high-end ANR headset , that 's a minor cost compared to altering the aircraft structure or materials and you still have full performance and useful load . I guess that for most GA pilots that 's the decisive factor .
Navigation has gotten much simpler over the years . Initially , navigation would be done by a combination of dead reckoning , looking out the window for landmarks , and for night or long-distance flights , by celestial navigation ( many old airplanes have a window at the navigator 's station specifically to let the navigator see the stars ) . This took quite a bit of time and effort , so the pilot could n't do it and also fly the airplane . In the 1920s , radio navigation was added to the navigator 's toolkit , but finding bearings to beacons and calculating a location was still an entirely manual process . Additionally , radio beacons did n't cover the entire world , so older navigation techniques were still needed for most flights . In the 1950s , fully-automatic radio direction finding systems became common and navigation beacons were available across most of Europe and North America . At this point , the workload involved in navigation dropped to the point that the pilot could also navigate : plot out the sequence of NDBs to follow ahead of time , then tune the radio and follow the navigation display . Very recently , navigation has been integrated with the autopilot to the point that the pilot can punch in a sequence of waypoints and have the airplane fly the route entirely on its own . And yes , even today if the electronic navigation system fails , the fallback is map , compass , and slide rule .
Yes , advanced flight directors and autopilots for helicopters can control the aircraft in all axes , and often they have modes for hovering built in , including maintain altitude , lateral veloctiy hold , hover , and/or autolevel . Hovering is difficult because it requires more complex controls than maintaining altitude in an airplane . Helicopters have a different set of control axes than fixed-wing aircraft . Fixed wing aircraft are controlled in pitch , roll , and yaw , with thrust as an extra variable . On a helicopter the flight path is controlled through cyclic ( roll and pitch ) , collective , and throttle , with the anti-torque pedals as well to control yaw . Hovering the aircraft requires controlling of the cyclic to keep the aircraft over its target with no lateral movement , and collective and throttle to maintain constant altitude , although the exact procedures are a little more complex . While not present on low-end helicopters due to a combination of complexity and lack of necessity , advanced autopilots for helicopters do exist . Like on other aircraft , there is a wide variety in autopilots between simple functions to maintain attitude ( often called one or two-cue guidance depending on the number of axes used ) to complex FMS-integrated three-axis modes ( which would be " three-cue " guidance ) . The FAA <URL> states , for example , that " The most advanced autopilots can fly an instrument approach to a hover without any additional pilot input once the initial functions have been selected . " On the Agusta AW139 helicopter that I 'm familiar with ( although I 'm not a pilot ) , they have several modes that provide this functionality : an altitude mode to maintain a given altitude an altitude acquire mode to smoothly reach a desired altitude an autolevel mode to level off at the end of an approach segment a lateral velocity hold mode to maintain slow lateral motion or no lateral motion more exotic search and rescue modes providing capabilites to transition to a hover , mark-on-target descents to predefined altitutdes , etc. . A traditional hover would be achieved by combining a low lateral velocity mode with a zero vertical speed mode like altitude or autolevel .
They do in fact exist , though they often use smaller helicopters . A Google search on the term " heli taxi " yields thousands of results , and while a lot are probably irrelevant , the first few pages give hundreds of operators around the world , ranging from companies ferrying passengers between airports and major cities to companies servicing oil platforms at sea , islands too small to have airfields , etc. .
The verb , " to taxi , " as it relates to a moving airplane on the ground , dates to about 1911 . The verb appears to be derived from the noun , " taxi , " referring to a nearly flightless training aircraft that dates to about 1909 . The word may allude to driving around like a taxicab , as others surmise , or it may relate to the fact that flight instructors gave rides to new students in the " taxi " airplane . Eventually , they started calling getting around on the ground ( or water ) " taxiing . " The expression started at Henri Farman 's flight school outside Paris , and was later picked up by pilots at flight schools in England . A " taxi " had shorter wings and a heavier body , so that it could not really take off and fly away at the hands of a new pilot , but a new pilot could get the feel of handling the aircraft and learn to take off and fly short distances , especially downhill along a slope . See : <URL>
The pilots also need to use oxygen in case of smoke , fumes , or fire in the aircraft . Thus , they need enough oxygen to be able to get down and land in a fire scenario , which is much more than a decompression ! Fire procedures have the crew on 100 % oxygen at positive pressure to prevent them from breathing in smoke and fumes , while in a decompression , their masks mix oxygen with cabin air , in much the same way the cabin masks do . This is also why the cabin masks are not used in smoke/fumes scenarios .
A single engine plane can suffer from control problems due to torque . An early famous example was the <URL> As others have pointed out , torque effects have to be countered using the normal aerodynamic controls available to the pilot . Some aircraft had extra-large ailerons because of this issue . <URL>
Depending on how you classify the control surfaces , the B-2 Spirit does not have a horizontal stab , since it is a " flying wing " design . As you have changed the question , the other part of the answer is that the flying wings have been able to get by without vertical stabilizers as well , at least in the case of the B-2 . It uses both spoilers ( " split brake rudders " ) and thrust differential to accommodate the lack of a vertical stabilizer . Northrop had investigated several means of applying directional control that would least infringe on the aircraft 's radar profile , eventually settling on a combination of split brake-rudders and differential thrust ~ Sweetman , Bill . " Lockheed Stealth " ( 2005 ) ISBN 0-7603-1940-5. , p. 73 ( And as with flight controls in general on the on B-2 , that 's helped a lot by its fly by wire flight control system ) . <URL> As the Germans discovered in their flying wing aircraft ( <URL> ) , and the USAF in the <URL> , flying wings have inherent instability , even though <URL> " were stable enough to fly . ( Dunne ) . <URL> The B-2 has a fly by wire system to retain stability and handling qualities so that it does not have to make tradeoffs ( loss ) in performance that earlier flying wing designs did in order to make the design " stable enough . " What the elevator/horizontal stab do for conventional aircraft is allow for longitudinal control ( pitch control ) . If you do n't choose to use that conventional method , the " effect " is that your design must find another way to establish longitudinal control and stability or the aircraft risks being unstable in that axis . Likewise with vertical stabilizers , your design has to address stability in the yaw axis if you want to make it without a control surface acting in that axis .
The concept of lift force per unit span comes from <URL> . It will need some background information to explain what it means , so bear with me . In the early years of flight , electricity was new and exciting , and it just happened that the <URL> worked equally well when calculating the local flow change effected by a wing . What is the electrical current in a wire became the vorticity in a vortex , and the strength and orientation of the induced magnetic field were equivalent to the induced flow changes . So the vocabulary of electricity was copied over to aerodynamics , just like brain research used vocabulary from computer science when that was a hot topic . Now we are left with abstract concepts like induced drag or lift per unit span . It would be so much more descriptive to use proper names , but the authors of technical books learned it that way and are much too lazy to explain aerodynamics any better . In <URL> , you have sources , sinks and vortices . Sources and sinks are used to generate the displacement effect of a physical body moving through air , and vortices are used to explain why wings bend the flow and create lift . In order to calculate the lift force $ L$ of a single vortex in two-dimensional flow , the circulation strength $ \ Gamma $ of the vortex is multiplied by the airspeed $ u _ { \ infty } $ and air density $ \ rho $ . You will find an equation like $ L = - \ Gamma \ cdot u _ { \ infty } \ cdot \ rho $ in many treatises about numerical aerodynamics . To expand that into the third dimension ( and , consequently , into reality ) , you need to add something measured in spanwise direction - but you have already lift , and adding the third dimension would give a moment ( lift times distance ) where only lift would make sense . Therefore , this two-dimensional lift is now called " lift per unit of span " so there is still space for a third dimension where two-dimensional flow did already produce lift ( counter to any sound intuition ) . And no , this is never constant over span . In all cases the vorticity is gradually reduced towards the tips , or explained in a better way , the suction force acting on the wing is gradually reduced when you approach the tips because when the wing ends , nothing can prevent the air from flowing from the high-pressure region below to the low-pressure region on the upper surface of the wing . While the potential flow mentioned above is the mathematical way of looking at aircraft , lift coefficients are the engineer 's way of expressing things . From tests it was soon clear that the lift force of a wing scales with the dynamic pressure $ q $ of the flow , that is the product of air density and the square of airspeed : $ q = \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 $ . The next observation of engineers was that lift also scales with wing area $ S$ . To make the lifting force independent of wing size and dynamic pressure , they stripped both from the lift ( physical unit of Kilopond , Newton or pound-force ) so they arrived at a dimensionless figure which they called lift coefficient $ c_L $ . Doing so made it much easier to compare measurements or scale up known designs for the next , better design . The lift equation now becomes $ L = c_L \ cdot S \ cdot \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 $
A <URL> measures the time spent in a general aviation aircraft with the power on . Planes differ in that time is easier to record than distance . For a given airspeed , the distance covered by the aircraft depends on the wind , altitude , and other factors . Modern airliners would record the period each engine has run , flight time , cycles ( one cycle is one pressurization/depressurization cycle ) , etc. , <URL> . Those records are then used to track the <URL> ( TBO ) . Same as with cars . For small planes , a <URL> is used to record the revolutions the engine has made , this one is used for TBO . <URL> ( <URL> ) Image of tach timer .
That 's a good question , and brings up a joke that many pilots know well : " What 's going to be in the cockpit of the future ? " " A dog and a pilot . " " A dog ? Why a dog ? " " Well , the dog is there to keep the pilot from touching anything . " " Ummm , why have the pilot then ? " " Well , someone has to feed the dog ! " Technology has improved to the point where airplanes can pretty much fly and even land themselves . They are even getting pretty good at handling " normal " emergencies like engine failures and depressurizations . Where pilots really shine though are the type of abnormal and emergency situations that are n't " in the book " . <URL> , a computer will be out of options because it was never programmed to handle that ( because it was considered " virtually impossible " when it was designed ) . A pilot on the other hand can analyze and experiment until he finds enough of a solution to keep the airplane in the air as he works through other issues . During a total electrical failure , the computers wo n't be much good . Sure , you can design redundant systems and make it so that it " can never happen " , but what about when it does ? There are also all of the little things that a pilot is constantly making decisions on how to handle . Some examples could include : Can the airplane fly with a particular feature inoperative ? What about multiple features inoperative ? How do they interact with each other ? What do you do when the passengers take too long to board and you are going to miss your departure slot ? What do you do when the ground crew forgets to close a door ? What about when the tug driver does n't push you back quite far enough ? Or ATC wants to change you to a different runway ? Or you ask ATC to change you to a different runway because it might save a few minutes and that will keep you from having to deice again ? Or another airplane unexpectedly pulls out in front of you while taxiing ? A pilot can see " ugly " clouds off the end of the runway and decide that it would be better to wait a bit before taking off . What happens when a flock of birds suddenly appears during the takeoff roll ? What happens when a passenger gets sick or unruly ? When do you need to divert and when can you continue ? On a typical flight , a pilot will make hundreds of small decisions that can make a big difference in the flight . Any one of these ( or one of the tens or hundreds of thousands of other things that could happen ) could trip up a computer . The pilot is also there as the " final authority " . If a hacker were to somehow hack into the automated systems , a pilot can always disconnect them and fly the airplane manually . He can turn off systems , he can be ... Well , the pilot can be creative and a computer can only do what it was programmed to do . Right now when a drone crashes it is n't such a big deal because nobody was on board . If an airliner with a load full of paying passengers crashes it is a big deal . Even just one . Many of these problems can be overcome . Some of them already have been . Some of them may never be fully handled in an automatic way but maybe we could still do automated flights with an acceptable level of safety . Some automation is actually better than some pilots in certain areas . However , the biggest reason that we do n't have fully automated passenger airplanes is because the general public feels comforted by a person being up front who can take over and carry them to safety if needed . Even if the technology were 100 % ready for automated passenger flights , I think that the number of people willing to purchase a ticket would be so low that it would be financially unfeasible for an airline to deploy it .
The <URL> ( aka . the doldrums ) is an area around the Equator which is notorious for heavy convective activity often leading to tall <URL> and associated heavy turbulence . The area around the Equator receives the largest amount of energy from the sun because of the perpendicular angle to the sun . This causes relative large heating of the surface , resulting in heating of the air above the surface and ultimatively convective activity including turbulence . This also causes a large green band around the earth near the Equator with rich vegetation , because the convective activity causes large amount of percipitation . <URL> The ITCZ is an important part of the global weather system , which is based on large cells of air generally moving in predictable patterns . The Hadley cell is a cell extending from the Equator to approximately 30 degrees north/south . Hot air rises at the Equator because of the heating caused by the perpendicular angle to the sun . This air travels at high levels as it cools down , and creates a downward flow of air around the 30 degree latitudes . As a result , the areas around 30 degrees latitude get almost no percipitation , which causes large areas of desert such as the Sahara . The pattern repeats itself with Ferrel cells between 30 and 60 degrees latitude and a polar cell from 60 degrees latitude to the poles .
The elasticity of the fuselage does indeed dampen the load factors from gusts somewhat . Therefore , gust-induced accelerations are a little higher over the wing than in the forward or rear fuselage . If the gust causes a pitching motion , this creates its own accelerations which adds to the bumps from the vertical accelerations . Elevator deflections cause similar pitching motions , and their accelerations are more pronounced in the rear fuselage since the aircraft will pivot around a point ahead of the center of gravity . The main factor , however , is the location of the axis of rotation of the <URL> of airliners . This is a weakly damped oscillation which creates lateral accelerations which are bigger the more aft you sit in the fuselage . The <URL> was hurriedly test-flown with nobody sitting in the back , and the pilots were happy with its comfort level . The first passengers , however , got seasick from the Dutch roll motion , which was only detected when the passengers sitting in the rear of the cabin complained . Modern airliners offer better comfort thanks to artificially enhanced stability , but even there you are better off sitting in front . I once flew on an <URL> <URL> from Cairo to Frankfurt , and the captain flew through the tops of <URL> sitting over the Alps . Soon the obvious sounds and smell told me that people in the back were filling their air sickness bags . Maybe half of the rear third of the seats was affected , while the forward two thirds had only a few cases of airsick passengers .
It ensures that the theoretical assumptions are correct in practice . Therefore it save our lives .
It could have been as you witnessed . In 2005 , a modification package dubbed <URL> was offered for the 737-200 and the 737 Classic ( -3 / 4/500 ) that would droop the flaps by 4 ° for all phases of flight . [ It ] decreases drag for cruise , and increases the aerodynamic efficiency of the wing by between 2 % and 3 % . The <URL> that many 727 pilots were doing the same thing in cruise -- but manually and unapproved . They would pull a CB to keep the slats on the leading edge of the wing retracted , while the flaps extended to the their first stop . Investigators believed that 727 pilots ( in general , and this flight specifically ) were setting the trailing edge flaps to two degrees during high altitude cruise , while at the same time pulling the circuit breaker for the slats so that they would not activate . This configuration was rumored to result in increased lift with no increase in drag , thus allowing more speed , higher elevation , or decreased fuel consumption . Flaps and Slats were intended to only be deployed at low speeds during take-off or landing . To answer the title question , yes . Flap position indicators exist , and combined with the electronic speed tape , the maximum speed indicated will be slower . If the flaps were to be extended at above design speed , an overspeed warning will be triggered as well .
Yes , most military aircraft , including fighter aircraft , are equipped with a " black box " called flight data recorder ( FDR ) / crash survivable memory unit ( CSMU ) / integrated monitoring and recording system ( IMRS ) / deployable flight incident recorder set ( DFIRS ) . Sources <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Is it possible to turn and safely land an aircraft with a malfunctioning rudder ?
If the rudder is jammed in the neutral position ( as stated in your question ) , then landing is easy . You will just land using ordinary techniques . The plane may feel sloppy , and passengers sitting at the back will complain about feeling dizzy , but the aircraft is easily controllable and landing would not be any problem . Now things are different when the rudder is jammed to one side , for example in <URL> . The crew faced major controlling issues with a full right rudder , engine failure and very high sink rate . But even then , the pilots managed to land successfully .
The maneuver is called a " breakaway maneuver " or simply a " break " , it 's also sometimes colloquially referred to as " peeling off " in the context of aircraft leaving formation . You can see it more clearly in this video : This is a standard maneuver used when <URL> , or as a way to safely exit formation flight ensuring that the departing aircraft is clear of the rest of the formation group . It also has tactical advantages as seen in the photo you posted ( when being tracked by an infra-red/heat-seaking missile , dropping flares and a hard breakaway is one technique used to convince the missile that the flare is actually your engine , by getting your real heat source out of its " line of sight " quickly ) . Aerodynamically the breakaway maneuver is nothing more than a steep turn : Roll the aircraft into the desired bank , setting power and pitch up to maintain your altitude and airspeed in the turn as desired . <URL> , though the bank angle and airframe loading ( G forces ) would need to be maintained within the aircraft 's limitations . The primary difference with fighters and attack aircraft is that the bank angle is dramatically steeper ( in the extreme , a 90-degree " knife-edge " bank ) and the turn much tighter because these aircraft have the excess power ( thrust ) required to sustain flight in that configuration and are sturdy enough to withstand the G loading induced by a " hard pull " in the breakaway maneuver . The abrupt wings-up turn along with the nice roar you get advancing the throttles makes the maneuver an impressive one for airshow crowds to watch .
First and foremost you should always be looking at the turn coordinator to see what is going on and applying rudder as necessary . In your specific case ( if we want to discuss the physics ) , basically what your instructor is saying is that you are using the ailerons to bank ( turn ) the plane and the rudder to counteract the propeller 's yawing moment . The rudder is simply counteracting the P-Factor : the inputs will change depending on how steeply you are banking . If opposite rudder is called for on your ball , then step on it . Perhaps more importantly , what your instructor is actually stressing is during your crosswind , base and final turns you should really be paying attention to staying coordinated . A great deal of Stall - > Spin - > Crashes happen in the pattern as planes slow down and dirty up , thus it 's extremely important in the pattern to watch your speed and your turn coordination .
The list of approved maneuvers is in the POH , and I 'm sure the Lomcovak is not listed . If you are willing to do unapproved maneuvers , the issue is that because the aircraft tumbles rather than flies in this maneuver you have a few things to worry about : it starts with an outside maneuver , it is inverted , and the exit requires a high-speed dive which will exceed Vne or the +6 g the 152 Aerobat is rated for .
No . The fuel system would risk to clog up with gelled diesel fuel in the low temperatures at cruise altitude . If you had omitted " safely " in your question , the answer might be different . Before I repeat what others have written before , I refer you to <URL> . The essential part is : Why do n't we burn highway diesel or heating kerosene in a 747 ? In a word , purity . The additional controls imposed on Jet-A fuel by the associated standard produce a product with well-known properties . When you fuel a plane with Jet-A you can be confident that fuel wo n't freeze in the tanks at altitude ( at least not unless you cold-soak it below -40 degrees ) . You also know the fuel will be " clean " and wo n't gunk up fuel filters or leave deposits inside the combustion core of the engine that can cause problems later .
Of course it is possible . But it does not improve the outcome . Swing wings were a fad of the Sixties . They never fulfilled their early promises , because the actuation mechanism is heavy . Variable sweep is only justifiable when the aircraft will fly both sub - and supersonically for extended periods . It turned out that the part of most missions which is spent at supersonic speeds is a lot smaller than anticipated in the Sixties . Just take the <URL> : Designed for supersonic penetration ( B-1A ) it became a subsonic low-lever terrain following strike aircraft ( B-1B ) . For stealth , <URL> is an important design principle . Making wing sweep variable is to throw this overboard , compromising the whole strategy of stealth . Also , the best stealthiness is only possible in subsonic flight - airframe heating at supersonic speed will broadcast the aircraft 's presence to everyone with a low-cost infrared sensor .
As Lnafziger says , a conventional landing is impossible for anything more than a tiny aircraft STOL aircraft ( Carrier ' runway ' length : 200m ) . As you state however , if it was an emergency , the aircraft carrier has a special net which it can fold up to stop planes , and since it can stop an F18 Hornet , it could probably take your Cessna as well :)
You 're going to run into a few issues . Below is a diagram of a typical aircraft carrier layout . Normally aircraft would land from right to left . The four cables are located closer to the right end than the left . The extra length after the cables is both to allow a " bolter " ( <URL> ) time to accelerate in case of missing the arresting hook ; and to allow an aircraft that caught a cable time to decelerate . Notice how far an aircraft can continue down the deck ( <URL> ) after catching the cable . Even if you catch the first cable , you might go off the aft end of the ship . Another issue is the way that the arrestor cables work . The housing where the cable enters the flight deck is curved to allow the landing aircraft to pull on the cable as it decelerates . The cable is not designed to be pulled in the opposite direction , which could cause it to break ( <URL> ) . Aside from these issues , you would also lack the <URL> system that provides physical guidance during the landing . And as <URL> , you have to either touch down late , or catch the cable late , both of which could pose problems .
Chances are you would not survive but lets explore this a bit more in depth for the sake of education . This <URL> explores the very issue . There is some research that has gone into the topic of hitting the ground but the research is rarely about cases from the height you are asking about ( ~ 30,000 ft ) . Some relevant info First off at that altitude you really ca n't breathe that effectively so hypoxia will be your first concern followed closely by extreme cold . Hitting water : Studies of bridge-jump survivors indicate that a feet-first , knife-like entry ( aka " the pencil " ) best optimizes your odds of resurfacing . Hitting the ground : The question of how to achieve ground contact remains , regrettably , given your predicament , a subject of debate . A 1942 study in the journal War Medicine noted " distribution and compensation of pressure play large parts in the defeat of injury . " Recommendation : wide-body impact . But a 1963 report by the Federal Aviation Agency argued that shifting into the classic sky diver 's landing stance -- feet together , heels up , flexed knees and hips -- best increases survivability . Your best bet for surviving the airplane break up is if you are stuck in a situation similar to that of <URL> who did survive the situation you describe . Unfortunately there is some debate as to what actually happened so take the info at face value . " Speed has never killed anyone . Suddenly becoming stationary , that 's what gets you . " -- Jeremy Clarkson
No , it is not negligent . Landing performance data assumes no thrust reverser usage and thrust reversers can be dispatched inoperative per the Minimum Equipment List ( MEL ) with a logbook entry and possibly the inoperative reverser mechanically locked/disabled . With a single thrust reverse operative , depending on the aircraft and airline ops , the other one may or may not be used . If it is used , caution in maintaining directional control during landing is advised . Any such stipulations will be part of the MEL verbiage . A proper MEL action will consist of a logbook entry by the pilots or maintenance , a logbook sign-off by maintenance and dispatch notification of the MEL . Thus , the pilots , maintenance and dispatch are all aware of the issue . Lastly , and special requirements of the MEL will be noted by the crew when they consult the MEL book after noticing the MEL in the logbook and in the dispatch paperwork . In the airplane I am familiar with you could visually note the thrust reverser locking bolt during the walk-around inspection to verify that maintenance had done its job properly . This also presented a nice opportunity to query the First Officer and see how well they were paying attention during the inspection . The situation would only be negligent if proper procedures were ignored .
Briefly : yes , it 's possible ( but very unlikely ) ; small pressurized aircraft are the more likely scenario ; maybe it has happened but if so it 's very rare . According to the FAA 's AC on <URL> it 's possible and more likely to happen in a smaller pressurized aircraft : ( a ) Explosive Decompression . A change in cabin pressure faster than the lungs can decompress . Most authorities consider any decompression that occurs in less than 0.5 seconds as explosive and potentially dangerous . This type of decompression is more likely to occur in small volume pressurized aircraft than in large pressurized aircraft and often results in lung damage . [ ... ] ( b ) Rapid Decompression . A change in cabin pressure where the lungs can decompress faster than the cabin . The risk of lung damage is significantly lower in this decompression compared to an explosive decompression . Unfortunately they do n't cite any statistics or source for the statement " often results in lung damage " so it is n't clear when it has actually happened . Other sources suggest that it 's very rare , for example Beyond the Black Box : The Forensics of Airplane Crashes <URL> this : The Air Force reports no serious injuries resulting from rapid decompression with open airways , even while wearing an oxygen mask . However , disastrous , even fatal consequences can result if the breath is forcibly held with the lungs full of air . [ ... ] Lung damage is considered nearly impossible in a commercial aircraft because of the large volume of air inside the plane . [ ... ] Even <URL> [ ... ] did not decompress fast enough to cause internal injuries . In other words , it 's not going to happen unless you hold your breath , but <URL> says that you wo n't be able to do that anyway : I 've had pilots tell me they would be able to hold their breath [ in order to extend the <URL> . That wo n't happen . First of all , the surprise of the event will override any defensive measure you may have thought you could put into place . Secondly , the rapid change in pressure differential will make it impossible to hold your breath . ( Remember , we can be talking about a pressure differential of 8.8 PSI . Let 's put these pressure differentials into perspective . A differential of 8.8 PSI is 1267 pounds per square foot . I think the surprise is a key point here : the <URL> increases your breathing rate so even if it were physically possible to hold your breath it 's extremely unlikely that you would do so . Interestingly , Google finds numerous sources that claim lung injuries are commonly caused by aircraft decompression , but I could n't find any source that mentioned a specific incident or even any statistics on it . I did find <URL> that studied 47 incidents of aircraft decompression but there was only one single barotrauma event among them and it affected the ears , not the lungs .
I 've never done it IRL , but read about it lots , and Flight Simmed it many times , so I 'll take a stab . ( until someone who has actually done it says better ) Glide Path When landing on a fixed runway , your glide-path is pretty much right towards the end of the runway.Its not like that at all on a Carrier . From up high , you are actually aiming for a point in front of the carrier . You 're aiming for where the runway will be in 30 seconds . As you get closer , the carrier moves closer into position . But still not entirely in position until the last second . So you 're always aiming for an invisible/imaginary point where the runway will be at the last second . This is the best picture I 've found of what I 'm describing : <URL> Notice that the flight path indicator ( the little circle in the HUD ) is well beyond the front of the carrier . If this plane was landing on a runway , the flight path would be aimed right at the numbers . No Flare In a typical runway landing you flare out just before touchdown , " float " for a second and drop on to the runway.In a carrier landing , you maintain your glide-path attitude all the way on to the deck . There 's no flare or float . This helps you hit exactly the spot you 're aiming for ( the 3-wire ) , but in some sense you really are crashing into the deck at a not-inconsiderable descent rate . Pitching Deck Remember the glide path to the imaginary touch-down point ? Because the carrier deck can be pitching or rolling in the waves , that imaginary touch-down point is not a fixed distance directly in front of the ship . As the ship bobs and weaves around , your touchdown point is moving around too . That makes it even harder to hit the point right . It can well be at the last second , as your plane is dropping quickly , the deck suddenly jumps up to meet you , making the impact even more violent . Sideways Movement The landing part of a carrier deck is the diagonal part on the back of the deck . It is angled about 20-degrees to the left , relative to the carrier . But it is moving directly forward with the movement of the carrier . This means the " runway " is not moving directly away from you , but slipping sideways .
For serial number 31-35 - Pilot seems to be Brookley , Wendell H - Homebase seems to have been Wright Field , Dayton , OH <URL> For serial number 31-85 - Pilot seems to be Larkin , James D. - Homebase seems to have been Boeing Field , Seattle , WA <URL> <URL>
The key in flying a good roll is to keep the aircraft 's nose up in anticipation of the lift requirement when flying in <URL> or <URL> flight . Since in knife-edge the elevator and rudder will assume each others function , you will need rudder as well as elevator for directional and pitch control . Also , depending on adverse yaw , some rudder is required to hold yaw to zero when applying ailerons . The procedure is as follows : Speed up , so you are fast enough for roll maneuvering and inverted flight . Pitch up a few degrees . How much depends on wing incidence and zero-lift angle of attack . Look out for some feature on the horizon : This will help you to keep your direction constant . Stop the pitching motion , then apply full ailerons . Correct the aileron-induced yawing motion by applying gentle rudder ( trailing edge in the direction of the up-going aileron ) . Your goal is to keep the fuselage pointing at the chosen feature throughout the maneuver . With increasing roll angle , apply rudder to keep the nose up . At the same time , push the stick gently to avoid course deviation . At 90 ° roll angle , both elevator and rudder have changed their function : The elevator will now control direction , and the rudder will control pitch . Keep the rotation rate and push the stick more when changing from 90 ° to 180 ° roll angle . In inverted flight you need to keep the aircraft trimmed , and depending on the static stability and speed this can require considerable negative elevator deflections . At the same time reduce rudder deflection such that the fuselage will still point into the initial direction . At 180 ° roll angle both elevator and rudder have returned to their old function , but pulling will now start a dive . On the way to 270 ° you will again need to add some rudder , now in the opposite direction , to keep the nose up . Again , elevator and rudder will exchange their functions . Once you return back to normal flight attitude , stop the rolling motion and reduce rudder deflection back to zero .
If the rudder is jammed in the neutral position ( as stated in your question ) , then landing is easy . You will just land using ordinary techniques . The plane may feel sloppy , and passengers sitting at the back will complain about feeling dizzy , but the aircraft is easily controllable and landing would not be any problem . Now things are different when the rudder is jammed to one side , for example in <URL> . The crew faced major controlling issues with a full right rudder , engine failure and very high sink rate . But even then , the pilots managed to land successfully .
For the general question , the answer will be " it depends on the aircraft . " Specifically for the 787 , though , the ' 7E7 ' program was officially announced on <URL> . The program was later renamed to 787 . It received its type certificate on <URL> and flew its first passenger revenue flight on <URL> . So , from the time the program began to the time of the first revenue flight was about 8 years and 9 months . Of course , this is not including the R&amp;D time invested on different projects whose R&amp;D ended up being used either partially or completely in the 787 design before the 787 program itself began . It should also be noted that not every airframe they start developing ever actually flies . Notably , Boeing worked on designs including <URL> and the <URL> ( which would have cruised at Mach 0.98 ) before beginning the 7E7 program . In addition to completely new airframes , aircraft manufacturers also commonly make derivative airframes based on existing product families . Current examples of derivatives in development include the <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> ( " neo " stands for " new engine option . " ) However , development time on derivatives can vary widely depending on how much modification is being made to the existing airframes and the level of resources being devoted to the project ( which depends on market pressure . ) For a past example , the 2nd-generation Boeing 777 aircraft were announced on <URL> with the first aircraft , the 777-300ER , being certificated on <URL> , and first service entry on <URL> . This gives a time of about 4 years and 2 months from announcement to first service entry . This was likely slowed by the sharp downturn in aircraft orders following the 1999-2000 " . com bust " and , especially , the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S. Also important is the FAA rule for applying for a type certificate . This will apply for new programs like the 787 , but not for derivative programs like the 777X , which amend the original type certificate and do not need a new one . In <URL> : An application for type certification of a transport category aircraft is effective for 5 years and an application for any other type certificate is effective for 3 years ... So once Boeing applies for a new type certificate , they have 5 years to get the type cetificate approved , unless they convince the FAA upfront that more time is needed . If the time runs out they must reapply , and the new type certificate would require the aircraft to comply with all new regulations passed since their original application .
The screens are LCDs , which have a polarized filter layer over them . That layer is usually placed at a 45 ° so they are misaligned with your polarized sunglasses which are aligned vertically . You can confirm this is the problem by turning your sunglasses at different angles and see if the screen changes .
Some autopilots found on advanced aircraft can be engaged on selected axis only , for example Boeing 737 , 747-200 &amp; MD-11 . There are three autopilot indicators on the Boeing autopilots : auto throttle , roll and pitch . Each can be in a different mode . Here a Boeing 737 's autopilot roll mode is set to Heading Select ( HDG SEL ) while the Pitch is flown manually ( CWS P ) : <URL> The pilot can pull or push the yoke , and the autopilot will roll the aircraft automatically . If the pilot steer the yoke left or right , the roll mode will change to CWS R . In this image below , the pilot is manually Rolling the aircraft ( CWS R ) , but the autopilot pitch mode is set to Vertical Speed mode . <URL> Later models , such as the Boeing 777 , does not have this feature - both pitch and roll modes must be engaged together .
According to <URL> 's medical guru on their discussion board ( members only , or I would link to an example ) it is possible to get a medical certificate following a tumor removal but only after a 5-year wait and a battery of tests . But having said that , medical issues are very individual and the FAA 's <URL> suggests that one year is enough in some cases . In the end the only way to get a definite answer is to find a good AME who can review your case in detail and advise you . Note that standard advice is to schedule a consultation first , rather than go straight for the actual flight medical . Disclaimer : I 'm not a doctor or AME and I have no idea how brains work :-)
That 's because the aircraft ( some of them at least ) are leased from <URL> , an aircraft leasing company in Drogheda Ireland . I only looked up one . It was EI-FVA . <URL> it shows it being registered to Aerotron on Aug 23 , 2016 . And <URL> it shows it entering Blue Panorama 's fleet on Dec 8 , 2016 .
end question
start question
How is a seaplane steered on water ?
Seaplanes mostly have water rudders that are used at lower speeds and are retractable ( actually , they tilt out of the water flow ) . At higher speeds , like takeoff runs and landings , high speed taxis , they are retracted and the primary means of steering is the plane 's rudder . Water rudders are connected to the regular rudder pedals . Airlerons can also be used to steer a seaplane on the water by creating differential lift and drag ( since most ailerons do n't deflect symmetrically ) . Doors can be used to steer by opening one or the other , creating drag on one side or the other . I have seen a C-150 pilot do this in the air , as well . Flaps , which create symmetrical drag , can be used to assist in slowing down but they 're not useful for steering . Seaplanes have no brakes other than the drag of the floats in the water , so a seaplane pilot wo n't approach a dock at a perpendicular angle . Instead , they will land along side a dock and then jump out onto a float and then to the dock , rope in hand . Seaplane pilots also carry oars , which allow them , yes , to paddle , steer , and stop the plane . So seaplane pilots have a number of tools at their disposal to steer the plane on the water . You can also read through the <URL> . It does require some coordination !
Seaplanes mostly have water rudders that are used at lower speeds and are retractable ( actually , they tilt out of the water flow ) . At higher speeds , like takeoff runs and landings , high speed taxis , they are retracted and the primary means of steering is the plane 's rudder . Water rudders are connected to the regular rudder pedals . Airlerons can also be used to steer a seaplane on the water by creating differential lift and drag ( since most ailerons do n't deflect symmetrically ) . Doors can be used to steer by opening one or the other , creating drag on one side or the other . I have seen a C-150 pilot do this in the air , as well . Flaps , which create symmetrical drag , can be used to assist in slowing down but they 're not useful for steering . Seaplanes have no brakes other than the drag of the floats in the water , so a seaplane pilot wo n't approach a dock at a perpendicular angle . Instead , they will land along side a dock and then jump out onto a float and then to the dock , rope in hand . Seaplane pilots also carry oars , which allow them , yes , to paddle , steer , and stop the plane . So seaplane pilots have a number of tools at their disposal to steer the plane on the water . You can also read through the <URL> . It does require some coordination !
end question
start question
Are there any supersonic aircraft with strictly mechanical controls ?
There 's one I can think of immediately , and that 's the granddaddy of them all , the <URL> . The X-1 's control system was unassisted and it had no hydraulic system . The only part of the control system that was assisted was the horizontal stabilizer , which was <URL> . I think most of the early supersonic test airplanes were mechanically operated .
It was the <URL> and the <URL> , both introduced in 1943 . The DC-3 had hydraulic flaps , but the Connie was the first to have hydraulic flight controls . The DC‐3 had wings flaps powered by hydraulics ( 1934 ) . But it was n't until the early 1940s that hydraulics were used to power the primary flight control surfaces on the Lockheed Constellation and P‐80 ( first US Jet Aircraft ) . Source : <URL> ( PDF ) Also in 1943 , the <URL> version of the WWII fighter aircraft was fitted with hydraulic boosted ailerons . Source : <URL>
There a several reasons for the demise of commercial supersonic aircraft . And there is a strong possibility we may be able to take a ride on a supersonic aircraft by 2021 . Supersonic commercial aircraft have a lot of constraints on them which are not present on subsonic commercial aircraft and which military aircraft are not subject to PROHIBITIVE DEVELOPMENT COSTS : Supersonic aircraft - and in particular high supersonic and hypersonic aircraft - are considerably more expensive to design and manufacture as they require the use of novel materials and manufacturing techniques in their design . As you pass about Mach 2 , heat starts to become a major problem , weakening traditional aerospace aluminum alloys to the point that they are no longer a viable material to construct an aircraft from . The airframes also expand and contract considerably in the heat and this must be accounted for in the design . Designers are forced to seek out more exotic materials like Titanium alloys , high temperature composites , etc. . and it is not just structure that requires novel materials to address this - fuel systems , electrical wiring , mission systems , even sealants and paint all must be chosen so as to combat heat but still satisfy traditional design metrics like safety , durability , and economics . The result of this are very high development costs : Adjusted for inflation , Concorde costs the governments of England and France some $ 28 billion or roughly 5 1/2 times the cost that Boeing spent to develop the 747 . Similar figures were consumed on the design and development of the ill fated Boeing 2707 , which never progressed past the mockup stage , even after re-design . LIMITED CABIN CAPACITIES : SST design favors a slender , needle like fuselage which limits the number of people which the jet can carry . The Concorde was limited to approximately 100 passenger in very narrow seats ; the 2707 could carry 260 people but had a length of over 300 feet making it very awkward and unruly in existing terminal aprons or taxiways . This also makes the SST very unprofitable for its operators , as Concorde proved . Over the last 50 years no more than 20 SSTs have ever been operational and all with only three airlines - British Airways , Air France , and the Soviet Aeroflot - all of which were heavily subsidized by their respective governments . PROPULSION INEFFICIENCIES RESTRICT RANGES : Design of SSTs have in the past been hampered by the high fuel consumption rates of turbojet engine imposing a design range limit of approximately 4,500 MN . This effectively curbs sales to airlines looking for SSTs to fly the pacific rim routes where the times savings offered by a supersonic aircraft would be the most pronounced . SUPERSONIC FLIGHT OVER LAND STILL PROHIBITED - Supersonic aircraft generate noxious sonic booms which can cause damage to fragile structures on the ground and generally are a nuisance to the inhabitants below . While advancements in quiet supersonic transports are happening , global aeronautical regulation bodies still prohibit supersonic flight over land , restricting an SST to subsonic flight over these regions , making its operation exponentially more expensive than a traditional subsonic aircraft . CONCERNS OVER SAFETY OPERATING IN RARIFIED ATMOSPHERE - a high speed SST would be required to operate in the higher parts of the stratosphere in excess of 60,000 feet . While this is achievable for military pilots in full pressure suits , there are considerable risks to civilians in street clothes at these altitudes should a rapid decompression occur . At these heights a rapid decompression will boil your blood inside your veins ( very painful way to die ) . It also can not be combated with traditional supplemental oxygen systems , making such a scenario very dangerous for passengers . ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS : The ' dirty burning ' turbojet previously discussed create a lot of NOX emissions , far more that today 's high bypass turbofans , which poses risk of increased depletion of stratospheric ozone . COST SAVINGS : A conventional high bypass turbofan subsonic airliner is between 16-20 times more efficient on a cost per passenger per NM basis . A typical transatlantic ticket on a 747-8 is approximately 1500 USD . A ticket on the Concorde was about 11,000 in today 's dollars . Taken all together and faced with the reality of designing such a craft with 3 million parts , 6 million lines of software code , all tested and validated , which is restricted only to transatlantic routes , aircraft designers quickly see the handwriting on the wall and the aircraft is doomed from the drafting paper upward . But that 's not to say the supersonic dream is dead . Aerion in Reno , NV and Airbus are in the process of developing a 16 passenger supersonic business jet , capable of Mach 1.6 , with a tentative rollout and flight in 2021 . Areion claims the jet will have a ' boom less ' cruise up to Mach 1.2 at or above FL350 and hopes this will coax regulating bodies into permitti
<URL> offers a Part 103 legal trike , and at least as of two years ago , had a flying prototype of a more conventional designed single-seat Part 103 legal ultralight . Realistically , given the weights of engines and batteries compared to the weights of the Rotax or similar engines usually used on ultralights , it 's possible to turn many Part 103 designs into electric power , provided you 're willing to do the engineering work yourself . For a fairly extreme example , see <URL> , a twin electric motor conversion of the Lazair ultralight that retains its Part 103 status .
While there is not a specific physical system dedicated to instrument departures per se , there are procedures that rely upon instrument flight rules ( IFR ) navigation equipment that ensure obstacle clearance when departing from an airport in instrument meteorological conditions ( IMC ) . From the <URL> 5-2-8 . Instrument departure procedures are preplanned instrument flight rule ( IFR ) procedures which provide obstruction clearance from the terminal area to the appropriate en route structure . There are two types of DPs , Obstacle Departure Procedures ( ODPs ) , printed either textually or graphically , and Standard Instrument Departures ( SIDs ) , always printed graphically . All DPs , either textual or graphic may be designed using either conventional or RNAV criteria . RNAV procedures will have RNAV printed in the title , e.g. , SHEAD TWO DEPARTURE ( RNAV ) . ODPs provide obstruction clearance via the least onerous route from the terminal area to the appropriate en route structure . ODPs are recommended for obstruction clearance and may be flown without ATC clearance unless an alternate departure procedure ( SID or radar vector ) has been specifically assigned by ATC . Graphic ODPs will have ( OBSTACLE ) printed in the procedure title , e.g. , GEYSR THREE DEPARTURE ( OBSTACLE ) , or , CROWN ONE DEPARTURE ( RNAV ) ( OBSTACLE ) . Standard Instrument Departures are air traffic control ( ATC ) procedures printed for pilot/controller use in graphic form to provide obstruction clearance and a transition from the terminal area to the appropriate en route structure . SIDs are primarily designed for system enhancement and to reduce pilot/controller workload . ATC clearance must be received prior to flying a SID . All DPs provide the pilot with a way to depart the airport and transition to the en route structure safely . Pilots operating under 14 CFR Part 91 are strongly encouraged to file and fly a DP at night , during marginal Visual Meteorological Conditions ( VMC ) and Instrument Meteorological Conditions ( IMC ) , when one is available . The following paragraphs will provide an overview of the DP program , why DPs are developed , what criteria are used , where to find them , how they are to be flown , and finally pilot and ATC responsibilities . There are many details involved in actually using these procedures to make safe departures in IMC . The <URL> is an excellent resource for pilots who want to review these procedures , what they provide and how to use them correctly . Here is an example of an ODP from my home airport , KCRG . There are some very tall towers less than 10 nautical miles from the airport . They are enormous and easy to avoid under visual conditions , but when IMC prevails these procedures are absolutely life-saving with such large obstructions nearby . They are taken from this <URL> . Here is an example of a SID . These are always graphically depicted and will usually be found at larger airports . Here are pages <URL> and <URL> of the full SID .
Well into WWII , quite a few French aircraft had the throttle reversed - with full throttle to the rear . The French also customized the imported aircraft in WWII to this effect . From the book <URL> by Col. John . D. Current : ... Officially designated Curtiss H75-C1 , the aircraft ... had instruments calibrated for the metric system , ... a French style throttle which operated in reverse from U.S. and British aircraft ( full throttle was to the rear rather than to the front ) ... From <URL> about the same aircraft : The Hawk 75A-1 was powered by the Pratt &amp; Whitney R-1830-SC-G engine , with an international rating of 900 hp at 12,000 feet and 950 hp for takeoff . ... A modified seat was fitted to accommodate the French Lemercier back parachute . The throttle operated in the " French fashion " , i.e. in the reverse direction to the throttles of British or US aircraft . Looks like the French <URL> the <URL> too ( though I 'm not absolutely sure about this ) : ... the French were looking for a replacement for their ground attack T-6s . ... The French did however acquire 148 A models that were in storage at Davis-Montham . They then changed the engines , ( removed the R-1300 and installed the R-1820-76A ) , reversed the throttle operation , ( forward is closed aft is open ?? why do this ? ) ... These planes were then used by the French in Algeria from the end of 1960 until the end of the war in July of 1962 . Not only the French , the Italians and Japanese also used reversed throttles , which caused quite a few problems in service , as the <URL> notes : In the brief German use , Veltros had at least five losses by accidents , often caused by the inverted throttle used on Italian aircraft ( In German and Allied fighters the " open throttle " position was forward , not back , and this was the source of several errors ) . The Italians too faced problems with this difference in controls . According to <URL> : In the summer of 1943 at Vicenza airport I made my first acquaintance with the " Gustavo " , a Messerschmitt fighter of the G-6 version . I was among pilots from 23 ° and 150 ° Gruppo Caccia to get first flights in the German plane that had been entering service at the Regia Aeronautica for few months . We had two main difficulties on test taxing at the Vicentine airport . 1 ) The gas throttle had an inverted movement compared to Italian vehicles . [ The Italians like the French used a reversed throttle in their planes . TNi ] 2 ) The Plane had hydraulic pedal brakes instead of pneumatic ones with differential command like on other Italian vehicles .
Why would you fly with a <URL> when you can have a clean aircraft ? Sure , there are many canard kit plane designs , but when you look closer at their performance , its is not improved by the location of the elevator . <URL> would always choose a higher wing loading than required to fulfill the <URL> , so his designs could cruise faster . When asked about this , his usual response was " ** ck the FAA ! " . When you look closely , canards will give you : With natural pitch stability a higher lift coefficient on the forward wing which also needs to have some margin for control surface deflections . Consequently , the big , rear wing is operating at a fraction of its potential when the aircraft stalls . The vorticity from the front wing creates a <URL> at the mid section of the rear wing and an upwash at the outer sections . The strength of these induced speeds varies with speed , so the main wing can produce an elliptic circulation at only one angle of attack . At other angles , its induced drag is higher than what is possible with a conventional configuration . The center of gravity is ahead of the main wing , so the landing gear needs to retract into the fuselage , taking space away from the cockpit . To move the wing center section forward , so it can accommodate the landing gear , the wing needs to be swept ( <URL> ) . There is no good position to put a vertical surface , so again sweep is used to shift some part of the airframe backwards and combine the vertical with winglets . Those need to point upwards , so they do not hit the ground during take-off and landing when the <URL> . Canards start to make sense when they are <URL> , but this is not a good approach for a GA aircraft .
Twin enigned aircrafts without counter-rotating propellers A great many twins do n't have counter-rotating props : One such aircraft is the BeechCraft Baron 58 , as seen in <URL> . Another aircraft I can think of is the King Air 350 . It is not any more or less common to have one or the other . Contra-rotating propellers Another interesting solution to the P-factor ( prop pulling towards one direction ) , especially on single engine aircraft is contra-rotating props , two propellers on the same shaft that spin in opposite directions . This is mainly for single engine racer aircraft , but there are multi-engine aircraft known to have it , such as the Soviet Tu-95 Bear bomber . The pic shown here is a Spitfire Mk . XIV : A better explanation of the P-factor P-factor is the term for asymmetric propeller loading , that causes the airplane to yaw to the left when at high angles of attack . Assuming a clockwise rotating propeller it is caused by the descending right side of the propeller ( as seen from the rear ) having a higher angle of attack relative to the oncoming air , and thus generating a higher air flow and thrust than the ascending blade on the left side , which at the other hand will generate less airflow and thrust . This will move the propellers aerodynamic centre to the right of the planes centreline , thus inducing an increasing yaw moment to the left with increasing angle of attack or increasing power . With increasing airspeed and decreasing angle of attack less right rudder will be required to maintain coordinated flight .
This has been ( and thus can be ) done and there is some current research on it as well . The <URL> had dropping wing tips that added <URL> . It also effected trim drag , The repositioned wingtips also reduced the area behind the airplane 's center of gravity , which reduced trim drag . The downturned outer panels also provided more vertical surface to improve directional stability at high Mach numbers . You can check out <URL> that interviews some of the people at <URL> including wingtip control systems and other interesting applications in that space . You may find some info in this book on <URL> . This thread ( and you know how accurate the internet is ) <URL>
Theoretically anything can be certified if resources are allocated to meet certification requirements . It may not be practical though : The plane must have at least two engines ( obviously ) It must have the range to fly to an alternate on one engine only Engine failure should not increase cockpit workload too much . Mostly this means some automation system that can operate with asymmetrical thrust . ( 2 ) rules out small twin-engine planes that only have a few hours of endurance on a full tank , and ( 3 ) rules out anything without a glass cockpit and avionics suite . Also , ETOPS is not just about aircraft design ; it deals with aircraft maintenance as well . The manufacturer and operator need to come up with a maintenance program that reduces in-flight failures by monitoring various metrics and taking preventive actions before a component fault happens . Therefore , on some aircrafts , it may not be worth the effort to obtain ETOPS .
The article you linked in your question mentions one incident - loss of separation - that 's described in more detail <URL> . <URL> is a good source of information on incidents and accidents but it has very few reports related to holding . There are several about low-fuel incidents because aircraft had to remain in the hold for a long time ( <URL> is a well-known case ) , but I could only find <URL> that involved a holding pattern more directly and that was also a loss of separation resolved via a <URL> advisory . <URL> crashed while in a hold , but it was an ad hoc holding pattern and not in a stack with other aircraft . <URL> crashed due to icing accumulation while holding but again there were no other aircraft involved . I could only find one example of an actual collision in a holding pattern which was <URL> and in that case only one of the aircraft was holding ( inaccurately ) .
A CG near the aft reduces drag by reducing the necessary downforce that has to be supplied ( usually ) by the <URL> . This is also a point for competition gliding ( more often than not you have water ballast in the vertical tailplane to compensate for those love handles ) . Aerobatic gliders sometimes feature aft lead ballast to enable maneuvers like tailspins which are not possible with a forward CG . Aft CGs come with reduced stability , which can be a severe flight-safety concern ( e.g. in case of <URL> ) . Some fighter aircraft feature inherently unstable aerodynamics ( see <URL> ) which offer great agility ( e.g. turning rates ) , but need constant input by a flight constrol system ( and woe if that <URL> , e.g. via <URL> ) . A forward CG results in greater flight stability and reduced danger of sudden stalling , but also increased drag ( because of the increased downforce required from the tailplane ) . In extreme cases this can limit the maneuverability as well and cause a <URL> ( the tailplane can only produce so much lift/downforce before itself stalls , at which point it is no longer holding your nose up ) .
The Soviet <URL> ( and also the <URL> ) had an automatic ejection seat . The aircraft had two smaller engines for VTOL . If one of them failed , the seat ejected automatically once the aircraft rolled past 60 $ ^ \ circ $ . From <URL> : The pilot sat on a K-36VM ejection seat , with the ejection performed automatically in takeoff or landing excursions using an " SK-EM " system . The SK-EM system was automatically engaged after the aircraft rose a few meters from the deck ; it could be turned off manually , or would turn itself off if the vectored-thrust nozzles were more than 67 degrees to the vertical . These ejection seats were first developed for <URL> ( though never installed on them ) . The Yak - 36 had two side-by-engines , the failure of any one of which could flip the aircraft - this led to the development of an automatic ejection system that would activate aircraft seemed to be departing from safe vertical-flight parameters . According to <URL> , 18 automatic ejections have been recorded in Yak-38s .
After looking through the FAR 's , the answer is no , the rear passenger seat can not be occupied by somebody claiming to be a " safety pilot " . <URL> : ( c ) No person may operate a civil aircraft in simulated instrument flight unless -- ( 1 ) The other control seat is occupied by a safety pilot who possesses at least a private pilot certificate with category and class ratings appropriate to the aircraft being flown . ( 2 ) The safety pilot has adequate vision forward and to each side of the aircraft , or a competent observer in the aircraft adequately supplements the vision of the safety pilot ; and ( Emphasis Mine ) So the safety pilot basically has to be able to access the controls and have vision that supplements the pilot , meaning must be able to see as well as the pilot position would .
As in anything in aviation design , the use of wingtips has both advantages and disadvantages . In the end , the decision to use ( or not ) a winglet is based on the cost-benefit analysis of the winglet to be used in that particular aircraft . All winglets incur a drag and weight penalty - the question is whether they conserve fuel more than they increase it in the first place . One problem in winglet addition is that they are prone to flutter . Also , an <URL> is sometimes more effective and is less risky . Another thing to add is that most of the present aircraft using winglets ( A320s and B737s ) were not designed with winglets to begin with . They were retrofits . Most of the new aircraft are designed with plenty of aerodynamic experience and the engineers can take a call based on the data available as to whether to have ' conventional ' winglet or not ( See A350XWB Vs B787 ) . Coming to B777 , it should be noted that they have wingtip devices after all - raked wingtips . These act in the same manner as the winglets to reduce drag . <URL> Boeing 777 raked wingtip ; image from <URL> According to Boeing , Each wing on the Boeing 777-300ER ( extended range ) is being extended by 6.5 feet , and raked wingtips are being added to improve the overall aerodynamic efficiency . The raked wingtips help reduce takeoff field length , increase climb performance and reduce fuel burn . So basically , these act in the same manner as the conventional wingtips . Also , it is crucial to consider the tradeoff . B777 was designed when the advantages of the wingtips were well known , yet they decided to go without one anyway . From <URL> : Because winglets are a tradeoff : In the highly visible case of the 777 , an airplane with exceptionally long range , the wings grew so long that folding wingtips were offered to get into tight airport gates . Finally <URL> when they were first ordered , though that has not stopped Boeing from trying . Note that one main reason for offering folding wings is to fit into existing gates - else the wingspan would 've become too great . Boeing considered all the options before deciding to go with this option : Dave Akiyama , manager of aerodynamics engineering in Boeing product development , points out that designing winglets can be tricky-they have a tendency to flutter , for example . " We find that it really does n't matter what kind of wingtip device you use-they 're all like span , " he says . " The devil is in the details . Span extensions are the easiest and least risky . " And finally , <URL> , especially for the earlier versions , though nothing came out of that - so most probably they were of not much use in improving fuel burn . Note that 787 also has a similar ' raked ' wingtip instead of winglet . Note : The fuel burn can be reduced by other means than wingtip devices - Boeing <URL> for the Boeing 777 , <URL> by 1 % : ... for long-range 777s , with United , Continental , and Delta investing in modifying the outboard aileron droop and the environmental control system , making ram air improvements , and installing smaller wing vortex generators to yield a total of 1 percent fuel burn improvement .
Visalia , CA ( KVIS ) is an uncontrolled airport with a Class E surface area and an ILS with 200 ' minimums .
Some years ago there were a couple of flight schools on Malta , I 'm not sure if they are still operating , DuckDuckGo could probably tell you The most common way of getting a JAR ( pre-EASA ) PPL ( for UK trainees ) outside the UK used to be to go to a JAR accredited school in the USA . Florida was very popular . I expect there are schools in the US that are allowed to train to the EASA syllabus these days . I think you need to travel on a training visa to do this and I 'm not sure what is involved in getting one I think I 'm right in saying your flight test can be taken by an EASA examiner anywhere , no need to come home to do it ( and anyway you 'd want to do it over familiar territory ) A big warning to anyone learning to fly is not to pay upfront . Pay lesson by lesson . Flying schools can go bust very quickly , many students have lost a lot of money this way Personally , I would be wary of training outside the UK , the weather conditions and procedures will be very different from what you are used to , and a low-hours pilot could easily get caught out . Marginal conditions can go bad on you very quickly . If you do do this , try to get some supplementary lessons in poorish weather and get some time fly through UK CAS to get used to ATC procedures
Logbooks are an interesting blend of personal and professional recordkeeping . The FAA does n't really make a big deal about what method you use to log your flight time , just as long as you log all flight time which you 're going to later use to justify currency or a new certificate . This means that you can do whatever works best for you , as long as you ( and your future employers ) are happy with it . When I transitioned to <URL> , I decided to spend a few weeks worth of evenings and just enter everything , line by line . I did this because I had a lot of spare time , and because from now on I 've got a pristine digital copy of everything , which is a nice feeling . However , this is certainly not necessary , and there is no reason why you could n't summarize your totals with one or a few line items . In fact , Safelog provides a function to do exactly that : you create a pseudo-aircraft type which is defined as " summarizes several aircraft " . You can get as coarse ( 1,302 hours in airplanes ) or as fine ( 389 hours in blue C-172M 's with the funny starter that sounds like you just dropped a shot glass in a garbage disposal ) as you want . I would say that whatever you choose to do , just be sure that you enter it using a format which will be compatible when you switch from Android to iPad . It 's bad enough to do it once , why put yourself through the hassle of doing it twice ?
The other answers are good , but do n't touch on one key method ... Prevention . Small aircraft like a Cessna 172 have a limited cruise time , about 4 hours maximum . They are small enough that they get relatively uncomfortable after 2-3 hours , and if flying in turbulence or challenging conditions , flights can be relatively short . The best way I 've found to avoid the problem is to make sure to use the facilities as close to departure time as possible and to limit my intake of fluids in the hour or so leading up to a flight . The other option you have is to land and use the " facilities " . Many unmanned airports that have terminals ( like <URL> ) have a keypad access and facilities inside . Airports are pretty common and you usually are n't more than 30 minutes away from an airport with a bathroom . Just as a personal account of this , I was doing night training at my local field ( Class C ) and it was late ( 10:00 PM or so ) . One gentleman came on the radio and asked the tower if the FBO was open so he could use the facilities . The controller responded that the FBO was closed but he could taxi him to a quiet corner of the airfield for a few minutes . The pilot gladly took him up on the offer .
The key piece of knowledge to understand a FBW system is that you need to differentiate between signalling and actuation . signalling is what tells the control surface to move and to what position . In old airplanes , this was by steel wires . In FBW airplanes it 's by copper wires carrying an electrical voltage . actuation is what actually moves the controls surfaces to the commanded position , the muscles . Traditionally this is hydraulics , but you can also find electric actuators these days . For the Airbus , Normal , Alternate &amp; Direct all use electrical signalling ( whether produced by computers or not ) . But what to do if there 's no electrics ? That 's Mechanical backup , where you have steel-wire signalling of specific surfaces .
end question
start question
During night flying , which color lens for a flashlight is most beneficial ?
You will want to use red light . Why ? See <URL> for a good explanation of the biology and physiology involved , and how it relates to perceptual ability . As stated in <URL> ( by <URL> ) to that question : If one is exposed to red light ( above ~ 650 nm ) , it would activate the L-type cones mainly ( possibly some M-type activation ) , but no rod activation . Rods are the low light receptor cells in our eyes , and as such , are very sensitive to the photon density , or brightness , entering the eye . This is just my speculation , but I think it 's plausible that if you were in a completely dark environment with just a red light , filtering out the higher frequencies , night vision could be spared in the sense that we do n't activate the rod cells .
You will want to use red light . Why ? See <URL> for a good explanation of the biology and physiology involved , and how it relates to perceptual ability . As stated in <URL> ( by <URL> ) to that question : If one is exposed to red light ( above ~ 650 nm ) , it would activate the L-type cones mainly ( possibly some M-type activation ) , but no rod activation . Rods are the low light receptor cells in our eyes , and as such , are very sensitive to the photon density , or brightness , entering the eye . This is just my speculation , but I think it 's plausible that if you were in a completely dark environment with just a red light , filtering out the higher frequencies , night vision could be spared in the sense that we do n't activate the rod cells .
end question
start question
Why do n't pilots always use autoland ?
There are a number of reasons why pilot do n't use autoland all the time , even if the airport and aircraft are equipped with the right equipment . To name the two most important ones : Pilots need to practise their flying technique . If they would always fly autopilot , they would lose the skills to fly . Skills that they need when the autopilot does fail . There are phases of flight where it is better or even required to let the autopilot do its job , but landing is one the things pilot are allowed to and need to be capable of doing themselves . Of course autoland needs to be practised as well . Auto land requires very accurate ILS guidance . Even if the airport is equipped with calibrated ILS Cat IIIb equipment ( required for autoland ) , the signals will be degraded by traffic that is operating near the ILS antennas . Under low visibility circumstances , when pilots can not land visually , traffic spacing is increased and ground vehicles are not allowed anywhere near the ILS antennas to ensure the best possible signal quality . This is a standard part of the Low Visibility Procedures ( LVP ) of all airports . The downside of this is that the capacity of the airport is reduced . If autoland would be performed while there is no ILS signal protection , the effects can be <URL> at best or fatal at worst . Photo by BFU , incident report <URL>
There are a number of reasons why pilot do n't use autoland all the time , even if the airport and aircraft are equipped with the right equipment . To name the two most important ones : Pilots need to practise their flying technique . If they would always fly autopilot , they would lose the skills to fly . Skills that they need when the autopilot does fail . There are phases of flight where it is better or even required to let the autopilot do its job , but landing is one the things pilot are allowed to and need to be capable of doing themselves . Of course autoland needs to be practised as well . Auto land requires very accurate ILS guidance . Even if the airport is equipped with calibrated ILS Cat IIIb equipment ( required for autoland ) , the signals will be degraded by traffic that is operating near the ILS antennas . Under low visibility circumstances , when pilots can not land visually , traffic spacing is increased and ground vehicles are not allowed anywhere near the ILS antennas to ensure the best possible signal quality . This is a standard part of the Low Visibility Procedures ( LVP ) of all airports . The downside of this is that the capacity of the airport is reduced . If autoland would be performed while there is no ILS signal protection , the effects can be <URL> at best or fatal at worst . Photo by BFU , incident report <URL>
One of the main reasons wing tip tanks were used was to <URL> by adding mass to the end of the wings . As time has progressed and our understanding of materials has grown as well as our ability to design structures better the need for tricks like this has gone away . As our general understanding of aerodynamics has gotten better so has the understanding of the <URL> . As such wing tip tanks have been traded out for wing tip devices . In some cases the tip tanks are an option available as a later add-on or at purchase time . Generally this increases the range of the aircraft at the cost of useful load . As such , it may just be that most people who order planes these days prefer the higher useful load and the reduced range , rather than the extended range flying with a lighter load . You can find some more discussion <URL> .
This answer will be quite anecdotal ( I have not seen a survey on the question ) . It will answer the question for " most people I 've worked with " , and for " my " aircraft ( B737NG ) . Also , the usual disclaimer : different airlines/aircraft manufacturers may have different SOPs/instructions/limitations . Consult your manuals . In general : most pilots will leave FD on , IF it still provides useful and reliable information , without being an obstruction/nuisance ( i.e. when configuring it to give correct guidance would be more trouble than it 's worth , given that you already have visual references ) . This philosophy is also usually what you 'll find in an airline SOP , but in more formal language . I 'll try to provide some examples ( non-exhaustive ) to illustrate this depending on how you were set up before being cleared for the visual approach : ILS to straight in landing Leave the FD on until landing ( on my aircraft , B737NG , it will disappear at 50 ft RA ) , both localizer and glideslope will give usable and reliable information to the FD . ( Caveat : in visual conditions , ATC might be less strict about avoiding signal interference . They might for instance let an aircraft on the ground taxi to cross your runway while you 're on approach , which could cause localizer/glideslope interference ) . ILS to sidestep Most would turn the FD 's off . Both localizer guidance and glideslope guidance will be to the " wrong " runway . The FD is likely to be more of a nuisance than a useful tool . Non-ILS approaches with no centerline offset The Localizer/LNAV path will give good lateral guidance to the FD . The vertical guidance will depend on the approach and your equipment . If the aircraft generates a good quality vertical path , which crosses the runway threshold at a reasonable height ( 50 ft ) , there is no real good reason to turn the FD 's off . If all you have is vertical speed ( V/S ) guidance , it might be more helpful to turn FD 's off . Non-ILS approaches with centerline offset ( for example most VOR approaches ) At some point during the approach , you 'll want to abandon the approach course , and line up with the runway . Where this point occurs depends on specific approach , and how you intend to fly it . Example : A VOR approach to runway 36 ( runway heading 000 ) might use a VOR 1 nm east of the runway with inbound course 005 . You might want to stay on the inbound course of the VOR until it crosses the extended runway centerline . In this case , most people would keep the FD on until reaching this point , and then turn it off , as it wo n't give you any useful guidance afterwards .
The reason is that bigger windows really are n't necessary . They are plenty big for the crew to see the runway just fine . Pilots have more than 180 degrees of visibility , and plenty of vertical visibility as well . Traffic routes and patterns are designed to make it easy for the pilots to see the runway as well . If the runway is behind you , then you need to turn around . If it 's below what you can see out the window , you are too high anyway . And if it 's above what you can see out the window , you probably have more important issues than finding the runway . Larger windows can help spot danger like other aircraft , but airliners are almost always flown under Instrument Flight Rules ( IFR ) where ATC is responsible for keeping them clear of conflicting traffic . In the past , <URL> did have larger window area . This was more important in an era where instrument navigation was more limited , and the pilots relied much more on their view outside . It was also more common on aircraft with military heritage , where it was more likely for pilots to find themselves relying on visual references instead of navigational aids . However , modern navigation systems have made larger windows even less useful . The instruments can tell pilots just about anything they need to know about anything they ca n't see out the windows . The 737 actually started with " <URL> " above the main row of windows . Modern systems have made those less useful , and the extra holes in the fuselage can cause cracks over time . Most 737 's delivered today do n't have them , and some of the old planes even get those windows plugged . Aside from the functional reasons for not increasing window size , <URL> will apply here as well .
On multiple <URL> threads they incorrectly say : The APU bleed is much cooler than the engine bleed system , and would be ineffective for WAI . But <URL> : The APU bleed temperature is unregulated and thus could damage the wing slats if used for anti-ice . <URL> Highlight shows regulation of engine bleed temperature .
That 's a good question , and brings up a joke that many pilots know well : " What 's going to be in the cockpit of the future ? " " A dog and a pilot . " " A dog ? Why a dog ? " " Well , the dog is there to keep the pilot from touching anything . " " Ummm , why have the pilot then ? " " Well , someone has to feed the dog ! " Technology has improved to the point where airplanes can pretty much fly and even land themselves . They are even getting pretty good at handling " normal " emergencies like engine failures and depressurizations . Where pilots really shine though are the type of abnormal and emergency situations that are n't " in the book " . <URL> , a computer will be out of options because it was never programmed to handle that ( because it was considered " virtually impossible " when it was designed ) . A pilot on the other hand can analyze and experiment until he finds enough of a solution to keep the airplane in the air as he works through other issues . During a total electrical failure , the computers wo n't be much good . Sure , you can design redundant systems and make it so that it " can never happen " , but what about when it does ? There are also all of the little things that a pilot is constantly making decisions on how to handle . Some examples could include : Can the airplane fly with a particular feature inoperative ? What about multiple features inoperative ? How do they interact with each other ? What do you do when the passengers take too long to board and you are going to miss your departure slot ? What do you do when the ground crew forgets to close a door ? What about when the tug driver does n't push you back quite far enough ? Or ATC wants to change you to a different runway ? Or you ask ATC to change you to a different runway because it might save a few minutes and that will keep you from having to deice again ? Or another airplane unexpectedly pulls out in front of you while taxiing ? A pilot can see " ugly " clouds off the end of the runway and decide that it would be better to wait a bit before taking off . What happens when a flock of birds suddenly appears during the takeoff roll ? What happens when a passenger gets sick or unruly ? When do you need to divert and when can you continue ? On a typical flight , a pilot will make hundreds of small decisions that can make a big difference in the flight . Any one of these ( or one of the tens or hundreds of thousands of other things that could happen ) could trip up a computer . The pilot is also there as the " final authority " . If a hacker were to somehow hack into the automated systems , a pilot can always disconnect them and fly the airplane manually . He can turn off systems , he can be ... Well , the pilot can be creative and a computer can only do what it was programmed to do . Right now when a drone crashes it is n't such a big deal because nobody was on board . If an airliner with a load full of paying passengers crashes it is a big deal . Even just one . Many of these problems can be overcome . Some of them already have been . Some of them may never be fully handled in an automatic way but maybe we could still do automated flights with an acceptable level of safety . Some automation is actually better than some pilots in certain areas . However , the biggest reason that we do n't have fully automated passenger airplanes is because the general public feels comforted by a person being up front who can take over and carry them to safety if needed . Even if the technology were 100 % ready for automated passenger flights , I think that the number of people willing to purchase a ticket would be so low that it would be financially unfeasible for an airline to deploy it .
Military aircraft takeoff with afterburner when it is safer to do so with an exception - carrier pilots always light their cans while taking off ( and also when the pilot wants to show off , but lets leave it at that ) . The main consideration for using after burner in operational land based aircraft is the available runway length . When the aircraft is loaded heavily with ordnance , the runway required may be more depending on other factors ( like OAT etc ) . In this case , it is better to go for afterburner takeoff . For example , <URL> specifically states : 3.6 Takeoff 3.6.6 Make an afterburner takeoff anytime the computed MIL power takeoff roll exceeds 50 percent of the available runway . The same is true for <URL> : 3.7 Takeoff 3.7.2 ... For single ship takeoffs , if the single ship computed military power takeoff distance exceeds one-half of the available runway , takeoff using afterburner . Another reason the pilots do it is to check the systems - it is better to check the afterburners on ground rather than finding any problems ( like intermittent afterburner ) in air . Of course in case of naval aircraft , the afterburners are on till the aircraft clears the ship . Also , as @J örg pointed out , people upload videos that look ' cool ' - hence the impression that they always use afterburners rather than the boring military power takeoff .
AC is easier to produce with the engines , that act as generators . The engines have a rotating shaft that it is easily equipped with magnetic dipoles all around . Then , depending on the instrument , the current is either used directly or , by the use of converters , in DC form as not only it is easier to produce , it is also easier to convert . So electronic devices that uses 12 , 5 or 3V may contain their own voltage converter ( though this is less and less true with modern efficient switch-mode converters ) . If DC conversion was as much efficient as AC conversion , we would n't see high-voltage lines . Last but not least , it 's easier to switch , because the current is null twice per cycle . DC must be switched at full current , which is expensive and weight costly . ( thanks mins )
Airframe parachutes are becoming an increasingly popular option on newly-certificated aircraft , thanks in part to the track record of successful deployments on Cirrus aircraft . If I had to speculate on why they 're not showing up in older certificated designs ( like the Piper PA-28 or the Cessna 172 &amp; 182 ) I 'd go with the reason I mentioned in my comment : " New " Pipers and Cessnas are basically extended manufacturing runs of very old designs - going on 50 + years . Changing an existing aircraft design to include the required hardpoints , breakaway panels , etc. for a parachute system would be a substantial change to the type certificate , and under Part 23 certification rules doing so would cost the manufacturer an equally-substantial sum of money for the design , engineering , and testing required . Light GA aircraft sales at the moment are , shall we say , lackluster -- the additional costs for the engineering , the type certificate update , and the parachute itself would certainly not help matters , as that cost would need to be passed along to the eventual purchaser of parachute-equipped aircraft ( which would probably mean putting a 50 + year old classic Piper or Cessna design in the same price category as a clean-sheet Cirrus SR20/SR22 ) . In addition to the mainly-financial reasons above <URL> has a point regarding weight . <URL> . This kit costs about 80 pounds of useful load , and on many light GA aircraft the useful load is marginal enough that this added weight means you 're effectively sacrificing a passenger to the installation . The Cessna retrofit kit also takes up a substantial amount of space in the baggage compartment <URL> , which is certainly a negative factor as well . Were the chute to be incorporated into the design by Cessna it would likely be installed in a similar location ( there just are n't many other places to put it ) with a similar cost in weight and cargo space .
No airplanes absolutely need a grass strip , but for some taildraggers ( airplanes which have a tailskid instead of a wheel ) it 's a real benefit because the grass is softer on the skid , and the friction of the grass improves control on the ground and helps slow the plane down . Pavement is n't that big a problem for skids make from more modern materials , but you can imagine it 's not going to do a slab of wood much good . Many vintage designs have no brakes or poor brakes , so having grass makes a big difference when landing , on pavement you 'd end up rolling a lot longer and have less directional control at low speed .
China is well known for having very strict air traffic control , who often are reluctant to give pilots the flexibility to deviate around bad weather or try a different - smoother - flight level ( as I 've experienced first-hand ) . That can lead to aircraft in Chinese airspace encountering more turbulence than in other parts of the world . Secondary to that , China can get some nasty weather : Particularly in the South . Compared to Europe they 'll have more thunderstorms , for example , and that can lead to increased turbulence . This image <URL> gives an overview of the number of lightning strikes around the globe . Aside from a few patches in Italy , China has more lightning - and hence more turbulence due to thunderstorms - than anywhere in Europe . As you mention , the mountainous terrain in some parts of the country also has an effect , although you get that in Europe too .
I 'm not in the military , so you could say I 'm talking out my rear end here , but based on my experience as a pilot : yes , military pilots use the autopilot all the time . Here 's my reasoning , in order of most to least convincing evidence : Punching the autopilot off takes about a fifth of a second . The button is right there on the yoke , for crying out loud . The time it takes to turn it off is not a good reason not to have it on . The autopilot is a labor-saving device . When you 're in an aircraft ( and particularly when you 're solo in one ) there are times when you 'd rather be paying attention to your chart or setting up the FMS or stretching or eating a candy bar instead of actually flying the plane . Also , when Air Force pilots fly long repositoning flights , the autopilot reduces fatigue between in-flight refuelings ( the Navy uses carriers ) . Times when you might have to leave the designated path for a mission happen a lot less than you think . Again , not in the military , I 'm just basing this on the realities of fuel and the number of military aircraft out there . Maybe if you 're flying close air support for teams on the ground or something , but remember that the military is first and foremost a logistics organization - it 's a machine for moving people and things from one place to another . Most of the time , military aircraft are n't on a hair-trigger moment 's notice ready-to-engage posture , they 're going from one airfield to another for training or maintenance or something . In most aircraft , you can override the autopilot if you need to anyway . Again , never flown a military fighter aircraft , but based on what I know about flying in general , even if you 're chilling in your F-22 ( with the autopilot on ) if you grab the stick and yank , the airplane will move . ( I would be interested to know whether this is true of Airbus aircraft . )
Because the priorities for military aircraft ( engines ) are different . While it is true that the high bypass turbofans have better fuel economy ( in cruise ) and are less noisy , the low bypass engines offer significant advantages when we take into account their intended use in combat aircraft , such as : The response of the low bypass turbofans to throttle adjustments is faster compared to the high bypass turbofans ; the inertia is less and less air mass is involved ( for increasing the velocity ) - This is important during combat , when thrust requirements change rapidly . They have less frontal area , reducing the drag produced . For aircraft expected to fly at supersonic speeds , however briefly , this is important . Better thrust to weight ratio - 6:1 in Trent 1000 Vs 9:1 F119 ( used in F-22 Raptor ) - Even if the actual thrust produced by the low bypass turbofans is lesser , they produce more thrust per kg of engine , which means that the engine can be more compact in size . The low bypass turbofans are more efficient at higher speeds compared to the high bypass turbofans . The lesser size of the low-bypass turbofans mean that the aircraft can be made stealthier by ' burying ' the engines in the fuselage , which is all but impossible in case of high bypass turbofans .
<URL> . When a business goes bankrupt or bust , depending on jurisdiction , the assets of the company may not belong to the company anymore , they may belong to creditors . Monarch may not have even owned them in the first place , since some airlines use leases from other airlines or banks to get aircraft . Even if Monarch did own the aircraft , and they went belly-up meaning the aircraft were basically nobody 's , now you have to worry about insurance and liability . The aircraft need to be insured to fly , and there is an assumption of liability if something ( like a crash ) were to happen . There are logistics like maintenance , repairs , etc. . Somebody will have to go through all the aircraft and make sure that they are legal to fly ( review logs , maintenance records , etc ) . Then you have the crews : they are not employed , and the CAA is n't going to employ a bunch of pilots for a couple of weeks just to run ferry flights . The pilots may demand benefits , etc. . It would be difficult or impossible to contract them as private parties ( since most insurance companies would not let you do that ) . So the easiest option is to let somebody else take care of all that by using charter flights . They have the infrastructure ( pilots , planes , fuel contracts , insurance , etc ) to get these people out . The CAA just has to call them up and say " we need X number of people picked up from ABC on some-date " , and the charter company takes care of it . Of course it is a little more expensive than doing it yourself , but you are n't trying to basically build a short-term airline and then shut it down again .
With sea creatures the dorsal fin acts as a <URL> providing the actual sideways force during the turn . They remain level while turning . Planes on the other hand bank to turn where the sideways force is provided by the lift of the wings . To provide yaw stability the vertical stabilizer should be as far from the center of mass as possible . They are not in front because that would be unstable as the minor deviation from straight ahead would increase the force into the deviation rather than provide a force to counteract it .
They are n't " almost uniformly sheepskin " , but they are absolutely uniformly flame-resistant ( or self-extinguishing ) as required for aircraft certification . Sheepskin ( and other natural wool fabrics ) are both flame resistant and self-extinguishing ( which is why <URL> are often made of wool ) , and sheepskin tends to wear well , so it 's a good choice for the two seats that will absolutely always be occupied when an aircraft is being operated . In terms of comfort , sheepskin covers also breathe well ( so the pilots are n't sweating profusely while operating the aircraft - one of the reasons they 're popular accessories for cars ) . Other popular fabric choices are natural leather , flame-resistant synthetic leather ( vinyl ) , and various other textiles which pass the FAA " burn test " requirements ( test procedures are described in <URL> for light aircraft , <URL> for transport category aircraft ) .
Because it was something of a <URL> trademark since his early days . His first designs , the VariViggen and VariEze , had such a wing already , and apparently he saw no reason to optimize the wing of the Starship . <URL> Rutan VariEze in flight ( picture <URL> ) The only true innovation was a variable geometry canard , which he even <URL> . Being only 85 % scale , the performance of the Starship prototype was formidable , but once the real production aircraft had been designed with full compliance to airworthiness regulations , the Beech Starship turned out to be less impressive . The additional wetted surface produced more friction drag . Piaggio 's design is clearly superior . By the way , the idea behind the variable geometry canard was sound : In the landing configuration it would balance the additional lift from the fowler flaps on the wing . But the whole mechanism cost more in weight than the reduction in drag during cruise could save . <URL> Drawing from US Patent 4641800 .
By sweeping wing backwards , you essentially make the air ' see ' another airfoil . Look at these two diagrams : When the air meets the wing , it travels along $ V$ . This ' seen ' airfoil is a lot thinner than $ V1 $ ( which is perpendicular to the leading edge ) . As the aircraft experiences less pressure , the aircraft experiences less drag . However , this also reduces the velocity of the air . This is good if you 're looking to delay things such as shockwaves as the air goes supersonic , since spreading the force out more delays this effect and the flow separation which comes with it . Unfortunately , for all the advantages , It would have a very high landing speed . So the wings are swept forward , the aircraft has a more effective aerofoil for lower speeds , and the minimum airspeed decreases correspondingly . There is now more drag , but also more lift which you need for the slower speed . <URL> puts this nicely in not all too-complex terms : If we were to begin to slide the wing sideways ( spanwise ) , the sideways motion of the wing relative to the air would be added to the previously perpendicular airflow , resulting in an airflow over the wing at an angle to the leading edge . This angle results in airflow traveling a greater distance from leading edge to trailing edge , and thus the air pressure is distributed over a greater distance ( and consequently lessened at any particular point on the surface ) . This scenario is identical to the airflow experienced by a swept wing as it travels through the air . The airflow over a swept wing encounters the wing at an angle . That angle can be broken down into two vectors , one perpendicular to the wing , and one parallel to the wing . The flow parallel to the wing has no effect on it , and since the perpendicular vector is shorter ( meaning slower ) than the actual airflow , it consequently exerts less pressure on the wing . In other words , the wing experiences airflow that is slower - and at lower pressures - than the actual speed of the aircraft . One of the factors that must be taken into account when designing a high-speed wing is compressibility , which is the effect that acts upon a wing as it approaches and passes through the speed of sound . The significant negative effects of compressibility made it a prime issue with aeronautical engineers . Sweep theory helps mitigate the effects of compressibility in transonic and supersonic aircraft because of the reduced pressures . This allows the mach number of an aircraft to be higher than that actually experienced by the wing . Is there a performance gain ? Depends on your definition : Having fixed swept wings would imply that : The landing speed might be unacceptably high , and with that , long runways would be required . You could design a fast and light aircraft.Take the F104 Starfighter for example , which had thin , short wings for the same effect but could n't move them , and was extremely dangerous at slow speeds . Having variable wings : The F14 was intended for carrier operations , where you would want a slow landing speed . Making an aircraft go that fast would probably have been impossible otherwise . It was also designed for long range operations , adding weight of fuel . Adds weight and mechanical complexity to the airframe , which increases maintenance cost and fuel burn . If I understand it correctly , today aircraft today rely more on system such as high-lift devices like for instance slats and flaps .
The transponders that have the problem of inadvertently selecting/transmitting " incorrect " ( or emergency ) codes are old-tech designs . Much like the old-tech radio designs there was no concept of " standby frequency " or " code being entered " - whatever was on the face of the instrument is what it 's doing . Radios of the same vintage have the same interface ( e.g. the KX-170b ) : <URL> The usual solution for the old-tech transponders is to think before you spin the knob . If you were squawking and told to squawk VFR ( 1200 in the US or 7000 in most of Europe ) you would n't turn the right-digit until you 'd adjusted one of the other two so you would n't inadvertently squawk one of the emergency/alert codes . ( The radar system could still see you squawking the " wrong " code for one or two passes in this situation , but that 's a self-resolving problem and it generally does n't set off any alarms for ATC . ) Modern ( push-button entry ) transponders do have an " inactive " squawk code in that then new code is n't transmitted until after you 're done entering it . Most also have a clear or one-touch VFR button in case you make an error entering the new code , so if ATC assigned you code and you inadvertently punched in turbulence you do n't need to keep entering a " wrong " code - just hit clear or VFR and try again .
end question
start question
What is the meaning of " American 755 , turn right , heading 320 " ?
It is quite simple if you look into the answer linked by Steve V. to understand what the headings are . Here is a simple example : aircraft flies at 290 . Controller instructs right turn to 320 . The image below shows how should the aircraft turn . Heading is on top and on the orange " bug " . ( Needle shows track but you can safely ignore it for this example ) . <URL> But here is a subtle case : if the aircraft flies on a heading of let 's say 030 and the crew is instructed to turn right heading 320 , then they should perform a 290 degrees turn to the right to meet heading 320 . <URL> This might not be obvious at first sight as it seems awkward , but it 's critical in air traffic control . Notes for the images : Compass is set to show " head up " ie the current heading of the aircraft on top and not " north up " . Also the compass rose for brevity does not depict degrees but tens of degrees . So " 15 " stands for 150 degrees . Images source : own work .
Redundancy , particularly during <URL> operations . How it works depends on the specific airplane type . In the most advanced systems with triple ( or more ) flight guidance computers ( FGCs ) , a " voting " concept is used during critical operations like autoland . All 3 computers calculate their commands independently , and vote on what to do . The middle value , or sometimes the average of the 2 " most similar " values , is then passed to the flight control actuators . In this way , if any one of the computers fails and starts producing garbage commands , those erroneous commands will not be selected ( they are automatically rejected by the voting scheme ) . A monitoring system can also detect a failed computer in this way and take it offline , allowing " fail-active " functionality -- an autoland can continue on the 2 remaining functional computers . Less complex aircraft , and aircraft without autoland , still sometimes have 2 FGCs , but do not support fail-active operation . In these systems only one of the two computers is active or selected at any given time . A transfer switch in the cockpit allows the pilot to transfer control from one computer to the other if one fails . And it 's not just airliners . Business jets commonly also have dual FGCs , and in recent times even small general aviation airplanes like the Diamond DA-42 have dual systems ( Garmin G1000 in dual-GFC700 configurations ) . <URL> ( click for high res version ) shows a Cessna Citation CJ business jet with dual Garmin autopilots . At the top of the PFD , notice there is a small green arrow pointing left ; this indicates the left FGC is currently selected . The photo also shows the XFR ( transfer ) button on the mode select panel , top center , just underneath the master caution/warning annunciator panel . Pushing this button would switch to the right ( # 2 ) FGC and change the arrow on the PFD to point to the right . These indications are fairly representative of other dual-FGC systems . <URL> of a Hawker 800 with Rockwell Collins Pro Line 21 . You can see the same arrow on the PFDs . In this aircraft the transfer switch is labeled " AP XFR " and is again on the autopilot panel just underneath the glareshield at the top of the panel toward the left hand side . And finally <URL> with 3 FGCs and full autoland capability . It 's a bit hard to read in this photo , but just above the autopilot disengage bar ( the " spacebar " looking thing on the right side of the mode select panel just under the glareshield ) the 3 buttons are labeled " A/P ENGAGE " , " L " " C " and " R " for the left , center and right FGCs . During an autoland all 3 would be selected and illuminated .
Each vessel , whether land , sea , or air , should ( might ) have a defined afterbody . The afterbody is <URL> as : The afterpart of a vehicle ; The part of a vessel abaft midships ; A companion body that trails a satellite or spacecraft ; A section or piece of a launch vehicle , rocket , or spacecraft that enters the atmosphere unprotected behind the nose cone or other body that is protected for entry and Merriam-Webster Online <URL> it as : : the after part of a body : such as a : the part of a ship abaft midships b : the bottom portion of a seaplane hull or float aft of the main step To show you , visually , an easy to see set of examples , consider the following pictures of floatplanes ( seaplanes ) : In the first and second images , the afterbody is that part of the aircraft behind the step , which is the little ' notch ' or , well , ' step ' just behind the main wheels . In the third picture , the afterbody is everything after the step , which is the more steeply angled section under the wings . The step is generally just aft of the center of gravity of the plane . Generally speaking , if one were to discuss the afterbody of a large airliners , such as the Airbus A380 , the afterbody would be the fuselage from the wings back , but not including the tail ( where the rudder and elevators are . ) I could not find any Airbus references to ' afterbody ' however . I did find some references to the afterbody of a Boeing 787 , being that part of the plane behind the pressurized cabin , which is the very back of the plane , including the tail . Not a very good solid definition where everyone agrees , sorry .
This is how I explain it , hopefully it helps more than hinders ! Heading : This is where my nose points - and seeing as my nose is attached to my head , this is where my head ( and thus my machine ) is pointing relative to North . Course : This is my INTENDED path of travel that I have calculated taking into consideration winds , variation and declination . Track : This is my ACTUAL path traveled over ground - just like a set of tracks I would leave behind in the snow or sand , relative to North Bearing : This is the angle between the location of an object , machine or destination and either : - my heading . This is called ' Relative Bearing ' . - or magnetic north ( direction toward the magnetic north pole ) . This is called ' Magnetic Bearing ' . So from the picture , if I take off from Springfield enroute to Shelbyville . My course ( the intended path ) is due East , or 090 degrees . I notice my winds are Southerly ( from 183 degrees / to 003 degrees ) , so I make my heading 095 degrees to compensate for wind drift ( or 5 degrees crab into the wind ) . If my calculations are bang on , my track should be the same as my course , however I misjudged the winds , finding out my resulting track over the ground is 081 degrees - I must correct ( by increasing ) my heading to get back on course . Now with some airports , the navaids ( NDB or VOR ) are not directly at the airfield but some distance away , so if I wanted to either fly directly to the NDB or figure out my position in space during enroute nav checks , I would take the bearing to the NDB/VOR either relative to my heading or relative to magnetic north to find its position . Hope this helps .
The most important point is that if any ATC instruction is n't clear then you should just ask them to repeat or clarify it . Having said that , turning in the shorter direction is <URL> in the FAA 's <URL> : FLY HEADING ( DEGREES ) - Informs the pilot of the heading he/she should fly . The pilot may have to turn to , or continue on , a specific compass direction in order to comply with the instructions . The pilot is expected to turn in the shorter direction to the heading unless otherwise instructed by ATC . In my personal experience , ATC almost always say left or right for heading changes if you 're on an approach or departure , but sometimes leave it out if you 're in cruise . That makes sense to me : the busier the airspace the more they want to make sure that you do n't turn the wrong way .
The FAA <URL> defines ' standard rate turn ' as , A turn of three degrees per second . This results in the completion of a full circle in 2 minutes . Every airplane must be able to complete a standard rate turn in order to be certified . The standard rate of turn is used as the main reference for bank angle . GA aircraft are expected to turn at the standard rate of turn during holding , intercepting , tracking , approaches , departures etc. . You 're correct that the airspeed determines the turn rate . As the turn rate is standardized , the bank angle becomes dependent on the air speed . From FAA-H-8083-15A Instrument Flying Handbook , True airspeed determines the angle of bank necessary to maintain a standard-rate turn . A rule of thumb to determine the approximate angle of bank required for a standard-rate turn is to divide your airspeed by 10 and add one-half the result . For example , at 60 knots , approximately 9 ° of bank is required ( 60 ÷ 10 = 6 + 3 = 9 ) ; at 80 knots , approximately 12 ° of bank is needed for a standard-rate turn .
The FAA has <URL> on ASDE-X , most of which I personally have no idea how to interpret correctly . The <URL> in particular has a lot of technical details on radar performance and although I did n't understand much of it I did notice this requirement : 3.6.3 Map Registration The display of target data shall [ R306 ] be registered to the display map with an accuracy of at least 20 feet . So whatever the technical capabilities of the system are , operationally it seems that you can assume it 's accurate to within 20ft , which seems to be reasonable in the context of large aircraft . You may be able to get more out of the documentation than I could , of course .
According to <URL> , is defined as : ... the period between the end of evening civil twilight and the beginning of morning civil twilight , or such other period between sunset and sunrise as may be prescribed by the appropriate authority , as defined by the Member State . ( The FAA and ICAO use a similar definition . ) You can get the Civil Twilight times from <URL> , but ignoring the specifics , the same rule of thumb the FAA uses for purposes of night currency will likely work for you too : Night starts one hour after sunset ( Sunset being when the last of the visible sun disc drops below the horizon . ) Night ends one hour before sunrise ( Sunrise being when the first of the visible sun disk breaks the horizon . ) This actually cheats you out of a few minutes of " night " on either side of the calculation , but it 's conservative guidance if you 're conservative in what you log you wo n't accidentally mess up and give yourself more night time than you 're really entitled too ( i.e. you wo n't make yourself " night current " when you really are n't ) . Note that I 'm a US pilot -- since all my flying and training is based on FAA regs in the US if I 'm completely off the mark and any European pilots or CFIs want to set me right it would be much appreciated :-)
I think you are making things too complicated on yourself . To the best of my knowledge , fighter jet controls will in principle behave the same way as almost any other aircraft - they will in general actuate surfaces the same regardless of orientation . A left/right movement controls roll , a backwards/forwards movement controls pitch . You would push the stick sufficiently to the right to bank until you reach the desired turn rate . You would have to maintain a little right stick to maintain the bank angle . As you do the above , pull back a little to ensure that the vertical speed remains zero . You also need to add a little rudder to create a coordinated turn . See the following images taken from <URL> and <URL> :
A <URL> is any sensor that detects whether there is something in its proximity ( within specified distance ) . There are many kinds of proximity sensors ( optical , magnetic , capacitive etc. ) that detect different kinds of target objects and to various distances . In this case , proximity sensor is used to detect position of the spoiler . Proximity sensors are preferred over micro-switches because they are more reliable , since they have no moving parts and thus do n't wear out . For parts actuated with hydraulics they are the only way to detect the position , since hydraulic actuators do n't provide any direct way for detecting their position ( compared to electric actuators , where in some cases the response of the actuator can be used to detect the position ; the principle is similar to a magnetic proximity sensor anyway though ) .
" Wilco " is short for the phrase " <URL> , " meaning that the speaker will follow the instructions to which they are replying . <URL> places the origin at 1938 , some time after the invention of radio , likely in military usage . Although the phrase " roger wilco " is sometimes used , <URL> since the " roger " ( <URL> ) is implied .
The answer is indeed ( a ) . For tailwheel aircraft , what typically happens is typically the following : With all 3 wheels on the ground , you start gaining speed by increasing thrust . Very soon ( e.g. much sooner that the minimum take-off speed ) , you push the stick to lift the tailwheel off the ground and put the aircraft at more or less zero AoA . When you reach the rotate speed , you pull to increase the AoA and to lift off ( as with tricycles ) . The required pitch up angle is much smaller than what would be needed for the tail wheel to touch the ground again . Alternatively , you may keep the tailwheel on the ground all the way until liftoff . Since with the tailwheel on the ground your AoA is positive , you just need to reach enough speed to generate the required lift for take-off . This may not be possible with all tailwheel aircraft or may increase take-off run length , though .
The first and perhaps most important thing to do is NOT turn around . Generally speaking you wo n't have the airspeed/altitude to make a full 180 and return to the field . While it can be done , it 's advised to continue forward and put the plane down as you would in any emergency . Trim for best glide and pick a landing spot ( limited options in this case ) . In some cases with small plane/long runway situations you will be able to execute something like a short field landing with the remaining runway but that is very situationally dependent . When I flew out of KPNE in a Warrior 24 was 7000ft ; if you lost an engine at rotation you had plenty of runway . At DYL where I fly now that 's not really the case . Every airport is different but a good deal of the airports I have flown out of recently have had long fields at either end of the runway giving maybe an extra 1000 ft or so . Airports in populated areas may have roads you can touch down on . You should always consult the POH of the specific aircraft in this case for proper emergency procedures . Specifically to the 152 point , the take off distance is around 1400 ft. full loaded if memory serves . Unless you are training on 2000 ft strips you should have no problem getting the plane back down with remaining runway at all but the shortest of fields . If you are only 10ft up you should be able to put the plane down fast , albeit a bit hard , but fast none the less . For what it 's worth <URL> . Once you have touched down it would be advised to retract your flaps , this will increase the load on the gear ( by reducing your wings ' effectiveness ) and increase brake effectiveness . You should take care to not lock the brakes as well . Side Story : This happened to a buddy of mine in his Archer a bunch of years back ( I 'll try to find the incident report ) . The plane was fresh out of annual and something was not hooked up correctly and shook loose on take off causing the engine to cut out around 100ft or so . There was a corn field dead ahead and he was able to put the plane down smoothly . Thankfully no one was hurt and he simply owed the farmer for the corn he took out on landing & hellip ; .
Left , right and centre . For example , Heathrow has 27 left ( 27L ) and right and 09 left ( 09L ) and right . <URL> <URL> Here 's an example for an airfield with a 34 left runway . <URL> If there are more than three runways more or less parallel , one or more runway numbers will be shifted by 10 degrees , e.g. 08L , 08C , 08R , 09R . From <URL> At large airports with four or more parallel runways ( for example , at Los Angeles , Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County , Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta , Denver , Dallas-Fort Worth and Orlando ) some runway identifiers are shifted by 10 degrees to avoid the ambiguity that would result with more than three parallel runways . For example , in Los Angeles , this system results in runways 6L , 6R , 7L , and 7R , even though all four runways are actually parallel ( approximately 69 degrees ) . At Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport , there are five parallel runways , named 17L , 17C , 17R , 18L , and 18R , all oriented at a heading of 175.4 degrees . Occasionally , an airport with only 3 parallel runways may use different runway identifiers , for example when a third parallel runway was opened at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport in 2000 to the south of existing 8R/26L , rather than confusingly becoming the " new " 8R/26L it was instead designated 7R/25L , with the former 8R/26L becoming 7L/25R and 8L/26R becoming 8/26 .
The ROUTING is DHP 322 radial to WINCO . So that 's the course line that you 'd intercept when so instructed . There is no reason to actually start at DHP , and since you 'll be flying the heading off the runway , the leg from the field to DHP in the Garmin is immaterial . You can expect that they 'll either clear you to WINCO , or ( for a non-RNAV aircraft , most likely ) that they 'll clear you on a heading to intercept the DHP 322 radial to WINCO ( and thence as filed ) , so you 'd cycle the active leg from the { OPF to DHP } leg , to the next leg , which is { DHP to WINCO } ( which is the same as the DHP 322 radial ) , and then you 'd intercept that active leg . Nothing in those instructions is telling you to fly to DHP , nor should you expect that you 'd get a clearance to do so . To answer the question in the title , until you 're told otherwise , you fly the initial heading in the text instructions . You 're on vectors , so do n't turn until told to do so . If you go lost comm , then AVE-F would tell you that you 're on Vectors to WINCO , so get yourself there as best you can , probably by turning direct if you 're RNAV equipped , or flying the radial if not . EDIT : Note , though , that in the normal ( with comm ) case , the DP instruction is NOT to fly heading 273 to intercept the radial ; it is to fly that heading . That 's your only CLEARANCE . ATC will turn you to intercept on whatever heading they want you on . Only in the case of lost comm would you turn to WINCO upon reaching the 322 radial . In all other cases , follow ATC instructions .
14.5 % given in the article is the ( maximum ) thickness to chord ratio , expressed in percentage . It is usually used to explain how thin ( or thick ) the airfoil is . Note that this is a characteristic of the airfoil . From the NASA page <URL> : <URL> Airfoil thickness to chord ratio , image from NASA page <URL> ... The straight line drawn from the leading to trailing edges of the airfoil is called the chord line . ... The maximum distance between the two lines is called the camber , which is a measure of the curvature of the airfoil ( high camber means high curvature ) . The maximum distance between the upper and lower surfaces is called the thickness . Often you will see these values divided by the chord length to produce a non-dimensional or " percent " type of number .
During the flare somewhere between 25 ' and 50 ' , the A/T retards the thrust levers to idle . They remain in idle mode until reverse thrust is selected which automatically disconnects the A/T . In the case of Emirates 521 , eyewitnesses observed the aircraft do a bounced landing and then attempt a go-around reaching a max altitude of about 150 ' . Because the aircraft had touched down , it can be assumed the A/T had automatically gone to idle , and it appears the thrust levers were not manually advanced . The aircraft then settled back on the runway as the gear was being retracted . More speculation here : <URL> a pilot colleague observed exactly what happened as he was there , waiting in his aircraft to cross runway 12L . The B777 bounced and began a go-around . The aircraft reached about 150 feet ( 45 metres ) with its landing gear retracting , then began to sink to the runway . This suggests that the pilots had initiated a go-around as they had been trained to do and had practised hundreds of times in simulators , but the engines failed to respond in time to the pilot-commanded thrust . Why ? Bounces are not uncommon . They happen to all pilots occasionally . What was different with the Emirates B777 bounce was that the pilot elected to go around . This should not have been a problem as pilots are trained to apply power , pitch up ( raise the nose ) and climb away . However pilots are not really trained for go-arounds after a bounce ; we practise go-arounds from a low approach attitude . Modern jets have autothrottles as part of the autoflight system . They have small TOGA ( take off/go-around ) switches on the throttle levers they click to command autothrottles to control the engines , to deliver the required thrust . Pilots do not physically push up the levers by themselves but trust the autothrottles to do that , although it is common to rest your hand on the top of the levers . So , on a go-around , all the pilot does is click the TOGA switches , pull back on the control column to raise the nose and -- when the other pilot , after observing positive climb , announces it -- calls " gear up " and away we go ! But in the Dubai case , because the wheels had touched the runway , the landing gear sensors told the autoflight system computers that the aircraft was landed . So when the pilot clicked TOGA , the computers -- without him initially realising it -- inhibited TOGA as part of their design protocols and refused to spool up the engines as the pilot commanded .
It is quite simple if you look into the answer linked by Steve V. to understand what the headings are . Here is a simple example : aircraft flies at 290 . Controller instructs right turn to 320 . The image below shows how should the aircraft turn . Heading is on top and on the orange " bug " . ( Needle shows track but you can safely ignore it for this example ) . <URL> But here is a subtle case : if the aircraft flies on a heading of let 's say 030 and the crew is instructed to turn right heading 320 , then they should perform a 290 degrees turn to the right to meet heading 320 . <URL> This might not be obvious at first sight as it seems awkward , but it 's critical in air traffic control . Notes for the images : Compass is set to show " head up " ie the current heading of the aircraft on top and not " north up " . Also the compass rose for brevity does not depict degrees but tens of degrees . So " 15 " stands for 150 degrees . Images source : own work .
Bugs simply make instruments easier to read with a very quick glance . If I need to steer exactly 162 degrees , which is easier ? To read where the needle is pointing or just see if the needle is pointing to the bug which I manually set to 162 degrees ? The bugs are set by rotating knobs on the gauges . Here , the heading bug knob is in the lower right corner . <URL> The way I often use it is to turn onto the next heading required according to my plan , then set the bug to that heading so that I can simply glance at the needle ( still pointing to the bug , good ) to keep me on course . Other uses : If ATC gives you a " next heading " , you will read back the instruction , then you can set the bug to that next heading so that a ) , you do n't forget it and need to call back and b ) can simply turn onto the bug when it 's time to turn . Set it to the departure runway heading on take off . To " fly runway heading " , just keep the bug at the top of the gauge . On arrival , set it to the landing runway heading . As a " gross error " check . You would not believe how many inexperienced pilots set off in entirely the wrong direction . As well as setting the heading bug to " first leg of the plan " , you check this along with " and the road should be on my left with the river on my right " . On some simple autopilot systems , the autopilot follows the altitude and heading bugs rather than having controls for these settings on the autopilot itself .
Both leading and trailing edge sweep help to reduce compressibility effects . For simple estimates , quarter chord sweep is used . This is more influenced by the leading edge , but the trailing edge is still involved with 25 % of the total value . If we look at the particular influence of trailing edge sweep , it is mostly found in the effectiveness of flaps and ailerons . Their effectiveness is proportional to the cosine of hinge line sweep . However , flaps at the end of a long wing chord will create a high pitching moment , requiring a big tail . Most delta wings use simpler , less effective flaps with less moment change . In supersonic aircraft trailing edge sweep helps to reduce sonic boom intensity . In the end , trailing edge sweep is mostly an outcome of the <URL> , similar to <URL> . The structural engineer will want to have a deep root airfoil in order to have enough wing height for a stiff spar or the landing gear without increasing relative thickness too much , and the aerodynamicist wants to reduce wetted area , since it will create friction drag and increase wing mass . In the end , all have to agree to a compromise .
end question
start question
What should I look for / check during an oil change ?
First , a word of caution - Do n't attempt your own oil changes on an aircraft unless you 're familiar with the process , and have both the tools and skills you 'll need to get it done right . It 's probably a good idea to have your mechanic supervise you on your first oil change , and check your work on the next few until you 're sure you 've got the hang of it . This is n't an oil-change how-to - just a list of stuff to look at to judge the general health of an engine . Disclaimers and warnings out of the way , here 's what I look for ( or ask the shop to check ) during an oil change : Draining that dirty old oil First , do n't forget to grab a sample for oil analysis while you 're draining ( I 'll talk about that a little later ! ) . Now , while the oil is running out of the drain you 're really looking for big chunks of metal coming out with it ( or heaven forbid blocking the drain hole ) You also want to make sure there is no nasty <URL> coming out ( that 's a car in the video , but the principle is the much same ) . Basically what 's coming out of the drain should look like oil . It 'll be dirty ( dark to black , rather than the pretty clear-ish liquid you poured into the engine all those hours ago ) , but it should still be flowing nicely . Obviously chunks of metal here would be bad . If you 're noticing them in the drained oil you 've got some serious mechanical damage in your engine and you need a mechanic to check it out . Sludge generally means you need to talk to your mechanic too - often it means a bunch of low-time oil changes to clean out the gunk from the engine , but if it 's severe it could indicate other engine problems that need attention Checking the Oil Screen If your engine has an oil suction screen that can be removed and cleaned ( as on most Lycoming engines ) , remove it and inspect it for any pieces of metal , then clean it and reinstall it . As with chunks in the drained oil , bits of metal in the screen are often a sign of a serious mechanical problem - if you find any you 're going to want to talk to your mechanic . Inspecting the Oil Filter As part of every oil change the filter should be cut open and inspected for fine metallic particles in the pleats . There are a few of ways to do this ( one is to simply stretch the pleats out under a bright light and look at them , another is to wash the filter in a solvent and strain the used solvent through a coffee filter to see if any particles are left behind ) . <URL> If you find any bits of metal in the filter you already know what I 'm going to say -- you 're going to want a mechanic to check things out . A very small amount of metal may not be a serious issue , or it might be the beginnings of an engine on a path to self-destruction . Run an oil analysis Some people do an oil analysis every oil change , some people do n't ever do one . Smarter people than me say it 's probably a good idea to do them , so I consider it to be cheap insurance and a good window into where those " bits of metal " I keep talking about above might eventually start coming from . There are plenty of companies that do aviation oil analysis and for an idea on what 's in the report <URL> . <URL> Note that a single oil analysis wo n't tell you much ( unless things are REALLY out of whack ) - it 's the long term stability or trends that matter here , so if you 're going to do an oil analysis be prepared to do them at every oil change from now on ... Do the things that are n't oil-related An oil change is a good opportunity to do some other regular maintenance - Since the cowling is off anyway why not clean/gap/rotate your spark plugs ( which is another mind-numbing task the FARs allow owners with a private pilot certificate to do ) ? In fact since the cowling is apart and your engine is naked now 's the time to give it a good once over for any loose parts , chafing wires , etc. that might have come up since the last oil change or service that had someone under the cowling . It 's probably also a good opportunity to check all your lights ( interior and exterior ) , and break out the manufacturer 's lubrication chart to see if there are any other things that need to be oiled , greased , cleaned , or sprayed . So what 's all this fuss about metal ? You 've probably noticed above that I 'm really harping on all the ways you can find metal in your oil in this answer . The simple fact is that all engines wear , and eventually they wear out . That wear shows up as microscopic bits of metal relatively harmlessly suspended in the oil ( what the oil analysis picks up ) , but if that wear suddenly accelerates bigger pieces of metal start getting torn off of the moving parts in your engine , and showing up in other places like the oil filter and screen , letting you know something is wrong with your engine , and hopefully letting you know on the ground rather than in the air . I do n't want to give the wrong impression here though : Not every bit of metal that turns up in an oil filter will be a death sentence for the
This regulation does not apply to an ILS approach . You are right is saying that " the VOR system of radio navigation " refers to actual VORs . If the flight is conducted using GPS to an ILS approach then you are n't using VOR for navigation . It does not matter that ILS uses the same instrument display . Intuitively , though ILS and VOR use the same display and frequency band , they are functionally different . The VOR beacon sends out a omnidirectional signal , from which a bearing ( 0-359 degrees ) is calculated . The ILS sends out a focused , directional signal , which the receiver centers on .
One of the suggested communication strategies for uncontrolled airports is to announce the type of aircraft and color . e.g. " Brown and white Cherokee entering downwind " . Rather than using your initials , which like the tail number , do n't really give any information , why not use your color or some distinguishing feature . e.g " Red tricycle ultralight " or " Blue weight-shift ultralight " . Anyone out there would have a better chance of knowing what to look for and seeing and avoiding you .
No , you should not * . In my opinion , you should limit your logbook to records of your own flight experience . This would include any time spent training , as PIC , or as required crew . The time you can log as PIC is that which you spend as the sole manipulator of the controls , the sole occupant , or as the pilot in command when the required crew is > 1 . <URL> . <URL> has some good coverage of this as well . If you 're just hanging out in the airplane , it does n't matter if you 're in the front seat or the back seat . If you 're receiving instruction , you should get an entry and a logbook endorsement from the instructor you 're flying with . Most General Aviation aircraft do n't require a type rating , so I 'm unsure what the context of your final question is . * It 's worth noting that you can technically put whatever you want in your logbook , though it 's not a great idea ; when it comes time to fill out an FAA 8710 form for later ratings , it can get confusing . In my opinion , you still should n't log any time , but if you 're just wanting to record flights that you took with friends , that 's fine . As an instructor who 's had to slog through some weird logbooks , I 'd really , really encourage you to track that elsewhere , though . Your logbook is exactly that - it 's your logbook , for the logging of your flight time , and a record of your flight experience and training .
There are plenty of great $ 20,000 aircraft out there - the hard part is finding them . " What to look for " is an incredibly broad question , and varies substantially between different types of aircraft : You would not look for the same things on a Piper Comanche as you would on a Cessna 182 . Accordingly the first thing you want to do is find a mechanic who is an expert in the particular type of aircraft to help you check it out and do a " pre-purchase inspection " . Finding those mechanics is actually pretty easy : Look for a " type club " that supports the aircraft you 're considering and ask them for recommendations ( e.g. for a Cessna <URL> , for a Cirrus <URL> , for most Piper aircraft <URL> , for Beechcraft <URL> , etc. . Talk to folks on those forums ( and to your mechanic ) about what you , as a buyer , should be looking at before you get the mechanic involved for the more detailed inspection . There are lots of things you as a pilot ( even a student pilot ) can determine just by looking at a plane ( and/or the logbooks ) . Some key items to look at before you go see the plane : NTSB Records <URL> go to the NTSB site ( or the equivalent if you 're not in the USA ) and search for accident records . Not every accident will show up in the database , but sometimes you 'll find out that the cream puff aircraft being advertised has actually been " substantially damaged " in an accident . The NTSB database search is free and there 's no reason not to do it . Logbooks All aircraft have logs , so if possible get a copy of them before you even go to look at the plane . Read through the logs ( yes , all of them ) : You 'll find all sorts of interesting things in there , but what you 're mainly looking for is good , consistent maintenance and regular use of the aircraft . As a secondary concern you 're looking for major repairs ( or significant minor ones ) that you might want to ask your mechanic about . FAA Records You can <URL> online for a small fee . This includes registration information and any records of major repairs/alterations ( " Form 337 " ) filed for the aircraft . It is generally an " interesting subset " of the logs . This is something you 'll want to have handy when your mechanic looks at the plane , though it 's not something you need to have before you go look at it yourself . Theoretically the owner should have all the documents that this record contains as part of their records/logbooks , but in practice paperwork sometimes gets " lost " . If all that looks good it 's time to look at the plane : How is the overall condition of the aircraft ? Cosmetics can lie , so do n't be dazzled by a shiny coat of paint and a nice interior : Is the on-board paperwork ( ARROW ) all in order ? Are the tires , hoses , and other rubber components in good condition ? Is the engine bay ( relatively ) clean ? Are there any leaks , drips , or other items of concern ? Are there obvious signs of damage ( skin patches , dents , fabric tears , etc. ) ? Are there obvious signs of corrosion ( bubbles under the paint , etc. ) ? Is the paint in overall good condition ( no major chips , no cracks , no flaking ) ? Is the aircraft itself clean ? ( As much as cosmetics lie , a plane that looks like it 's been neglected probably has been ... ) Does the aircraft pass a very thorough preflight ? Go through the preflight checklist with an eye for anything abnormal -- ask yourself " Would I fly this aircraft today ? " . If the answer is no , think carefully about why . If the answer is yes it may be time to test-fly with the current owner . Does the aircraft operate correctly on the test flight ? Do the engine and propeller operate properly ? Do all the instruments and avionics function correctly ? Does the aircraft fly well ? Can you trim for hands-off straight and level flight ? If the aircraft passes all your checks it 's time to turn your mechanic loose on it - they will inspect the aircraft for problems ( major and minor ) that you as a pilot might not notice which can wind up costing you a lot of money . This pre-purchase inspection ( and the ensuing negotiation based on what the mechanic finds ) is usually the last stop before handing over your money and taking the keys .
The key when selecting an aviation mechanic or shop to maintain your newly purchased plane is " time in type " : You would not take a Cessna 172 to the United Airlines maintenance facility at JFK , not would you take an A380 to the local Cessna service center ( even though it would be perfectly legal to do so ) . If you 're buying a new aircraft ( of any type ) the manufacturer will be able to recommend an authorized service center for you , and you 'll probably want to use an authorized service center ( especially for warranty work ) . If you 're buying a used aircraft you can still contact the manufacturer and ask about authorized service centers . They will usually be happy to give you a list of places near you that can work on your aircraft , and who are blessed by the factory to perform warranty service , complete mandatory service bulletins where the manufacturer is supplying parts / covering labor , etc. . Aside from manufacturer recommendations there are a lot of other ways to find a maintenance shop that beat simply asking Google and picking one at random . For the most common single-engine piston aircraft ( your typical Piper Cherokee , Cessna 172/182 , etc. ) you can almost certainly find a mechanic at your local general aviation airport - ask the FBO where you 're storing the plane for recommendations or talk to other pilots on the ramp about who they use for maintenance . For more esoteric aircraft ( high-performance singles , twins , vintage/classic/warbirds , etc. ) your best resource is often a type club ( e.g. . <URL> for Beechcraft Bonanzas , or <URL> for the Piper Comanche ) - Google can help you track down a type club , and the members can help you find mechanics who have experience working on your particular airplane . Type clubs are also a great source of other information ( like where to find parts ) .
I will attempt an answer , although the question is a bit unclear . Climb rate is not measured in degrees or any other angle measurement unit . It 's altitude per time unit ( feet per minute usually ) . What you are mentioning is the climb gradient . See <URL> for details Now regarding your questions : Do climb rates for a given flight mission stay constant in one phase of flight ( e.g. until reaching 1500ft altitude ) and then change at a specific flight level or are they continuously adjusted ? Depends on what the pilot wants to achieve . Do they have to meet a restriction ? Noise abatement , crossing etc ? Are they instructed by ATC to climb quicker ( if able ) or slower to maintain separation with an opposite or crossing flight ? In any case they have to adjust their climb rate . Do given climb rates exist for ( one arbitrary ) given flight mission ? Yes and no . Given by whom ? The manufacturer ? The airline company ? The regulations ? If the SID you 've been assigned has climb restrictions imposed , then you have them given but not a firm number . It 's usually less than or more than ( or both ) . Also have in mind that climb rate is affected by aircraft weight as you can see in the document that I 've linked below . But this is more of a limit rather than a given rate for the specific flight . Is there a method to calculate the change of climb rates depending on altitude and weight ? Again , on whose perspective ? The aerospace engineer 's who designs the plane ? Or the pilot 's who will " just " fly it ? In the second case there are lookup tables , but I hardly recall details since it 's been almost 10 years from the last time I 've seen one . Are there sources like papers , reports , manuals that will work for genuine citation ? Your best bet is BADA . You might want to have a look into <URL> * where it actually describes ( among others ) the climb rates for various altitudes and weights for several aircraft types . Note that this is quite an old document dated back to 1998 , but I would guess this is the best one can get since BADA is proprietary and has lots of use restrictions . So I would n't expect anything much newer to be publicly available . * ( labeled since links have the bad habit to disappear )
The Part 141 flight school that I used to work at quoted around \ $ 7,000 for their instrument package , which was 30 hours of dual flight , 20 hours of ground instruction , and 10 hours of PC-ATD simulator time . They were a Cessna Pilot Center using the old CPC King Schools course . It was a good course , and while numbers varied , I did have a couple of students who squeaked by right on the Part 141 course minimums . Other pilots added 5 to 10 hours more flight training into the mix . In general , my gut says that it should cost an average pilot who has 100 + hours and flies semi-regularly between \ $ 7,000 and \ $ 9,000 ; probably closer to the low end than the high end , especially if the student does a bunch of self study at home on a flight simulator , possibly using VATSim as a simulated ATC . As far as what to look for , I would recommend a Part 141 course just because the FAA is involved in the course standards , and instructor standardization is ( supposed to be ) part of the 141 criteria . It might be worth asking what their first-attempt pass rate is on checkrides , but that 's not a meaningful long-term measure of the course 's quality , just a short-term one . You should find a course whose syllabus makes sense , includes simulator training and scenario-based flights , and make sure you work with an instructor you like . They ca n't be your best friend - they very well might need to give you some serious critique or cut a lesson short because things are n't going well - but you should be happy to spend a couple of hours a foot away from them in the cockpit . I 'm trying to track down the average hours to attain an instrument rating in the US ; if I find it , I 'll update my answer .
Both the MetroJet and GermanWings incidents were deliberate acts of destruction , not accidents in any common understanding of the word , or indeed in the sense defined by the Convention on International Civil Aviation . The <URL> , as it 's also known , defines an accident as : An occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft [ ... ] in which [ ... ] a person is fatally or seriously injured [ ... ] except when the injuries are [ ... ] inflicted by other persons . My emphasis added - see <URL> for the full definition - it 's quite dry but interesting , if you 're interested in that kind of thing . The exceptions it lists are illuminating . Deliberate acts and " incidents " I do think that the definitions in the Annexe are slightly odd . You 'd think that the deliberate destruction of an airliner in flight should be called an incident , but an incident is apparently : An occurrence , other than an accident , [ affecting safety ] . I guess that 's one way of describing a bombing or deliberate crash into terrain ... but then there 's also a Serious incident which is merely : An incident involving circumstances indicating that an accident nearly occurred . [ my emphasis again ] So that would make the GermanWings and MetroJet cases incidents , but not serious incidents ! However : since " Appendix 7 " of the ICAO Accident/Incident Reporting Manual lists " types of incident " , and deliberate acts of destruction are not amongst them , I can only deduce that they are classified as neither incidents nor accidents . I am not sure exactly what the official terminology is for them .
I would not recommend a telescope for viewing aircraft . As others have pointed out , a telescope that is suitable for astronomy would be incredibly overpowered for viewing aircraft - the aircraft would move out of the viewing frame very quickly , and you would have a difficult time tracking them . I would suggest picking up a <URL> ( the kind of thing bird watchers and hunters use - good ones can be had in the 50 to 100 dollar price range , and excellent ones abound from about $ 100 up ) , or a pair of good binoculars for your plane watching . The zoom factor is far better suited to plane spotting , and either option would be substantially more portable than a full telescope rig . As for advice on a telescope , there is an Astronomy stack exchange site , and while <URL> the Astronomy site 's <URL> might be a good place to ask for advice on picking a telescope . ( I 'm not sure how active their chat room is , but it 's worth a shot ! )
When flying over mountains Pilots will have to encounter unpredictable winds , high density altitude , steeply rising terrain and box canyons , mountain waves , rotor clouds , turbulence , and clouds covering high ground . <URL> It is therefore essential to take the below mentioned factors into consideration : ( 1 ) ROUTE PLANNING : When flying over mountains Route Planning is extremely important because a straight line between two points may not always be the best way to go . Therefore , pick a route that avoids the rugged areas and highest peaks where an emergency landing could not be made . It usually takes very little extra time to bypass the most mountainous areas and follow major roads through more populated areas and lower terrain . Do not approach a ridge until you have sufficient altitude to cross with a safety margin . If you encounter too much sink , you must have enough altitude to turn away towards lower terrain . To make that turn as easy as possible , its wise to turn your aircraft to a 45-degree angle to the ridge before you cross . <URL> ( 2 ) THE TERRAIN FACTOR : The rising terrain will often out climb non-turbocharged aircraft . If your aircraft has a service ceiling of 14,500 ft. , that is based on standard atmospheric temperature which is 59 ° F at sea level and decreases an average of 3.5 ° F per thousand feet . If the surface temperature at 5000 ft. is 100 degrees , the density altitude on the ground is about 9,000 ft. When you climb to an indicated altitude of 9,500 feet you have reached the service ceiling of you aircraft . ( 3 ) THE WIND FACTOR : In a light aircraft , it is best to stay on the ground if the winds are greater than 35 miles per hour . Due to the venturi effect , winds will be much greater in the vicinity of mountain passes . Cross passes as high as possible , as downdrafts up to 2,000 feet per minute can occur on the leeward side.When strong winds of 40 to 50 miles per hour are blowing perpendicular to a mountain range , expect mountain waves and strong downdrafts for many miles on the leeward side . ( 4 ) THE CLOUD FACTOR : The combination of rising ground and lowering ceiling can be deadly . Mountains disappear not only in clouds , but also at night . You should not fly over high territory after sunset unless you are at the minimum en route IFR altitude which provides a 2,000 ft. clearance along airways . When flying after dark , closely monitor your altitude and when in a turn , your rate of descent . A mountain checkout flight is all that is required to get started . The checkout will enable you to operate around some pretty impressive terrain : Flatlander Focus : Two good books on the market are The Mountain Flying Bible by Sparky Imeson , and Flying the Mountains : A Training Manual for Flying Single-Engine Aircraft by Fletcher Fairchild Anderson . Reading either one will give you a solid foundation on which to build your skills . Most Importantly - Know Your Aircraft &amp; Its Limitations <URL> ( a ) What distance over the ground does your aircraft cover in a rate-one turn ? ( b ) What 's the distance for a steep turn ? ( c ) What speed and configuration do you use for reduced visibility and for a minimum radius turn ? ( d ) What is the best-angle-of-climb speed ? ( e ) Do you know the manoeuvring speed ( VA ) and understand its application in potentially turbulent conditions ? ( f ) How is your aircraft performance and handling affected by altitude and turbulence ? ( g ) How is performance affected when operating at maximum-all-up-weight ? Needless to say recent practice and currency are vitally important .
There is no standard because there 's no standard emergency . The response to " Say fuel onboard " ( or the way the question is phrased ) depends on who cares most about the answer . Fuel Remaining ( in minutes ) This is how you report it when you declare a minimum fuel emergency , and it 's most useful for approach and tower controllers to know exactly how long they have to get you on the ground before your engine gets quiet ( and if they can get you to an airport in that timeframe ) . Fuel Remaining ( in hours ) This is what you 'll give for most general emergencies , and also what 's entered on flight plans . It 's the most generally useful number to a pilot or controller . If you 're VFR-only pilot stuck on top of an overcast and call ATC with a pan ( urgency ) message because ca n't see a way through the controller will want to know how far they can vector you to find a hole before it becomes a fuel emergency too . Fuel Onboard ( in Pounds/Kilograms or Gallons/Liters ) The folks who care about this number drive around in ugly fire trucks wearing silver jumpsuits ( the ARFF crews ) : If the worst happens they want to know how big a fire they might have to deal with , and how much foam they 're going to need to handle it .
SOS is a distress signal . In the context of <URL> it would be equivalent to a call , which is the standard voice signal for distress . There is , as far as I 'm aware , no standard equivalent for an " urgency " ( ) situation in morse code . As far as its use in aviation , most aviation communication today is by voice ( radiotelephone ) , and " SOS " is not generally used in voice communication . Its used by morse code stations is because it is a short and easily recognized pattern : Its recognizability is part of the reason it replaced the old Marconi CQD general distress call code which was literally a general call to all stations ( ) signaling " distress " ( ) . I ca n't find a reference , but I would assume there 's at least one case in history where the SOS code was used by an aircraft ( back when morse stations were common on aircraft ) . An SOS signal could of course be transmitted today using the unmodulated carrier from your radio by simply keying the microphone , but that would only be useful if the voice circuit of your radio has failed and you had no other means to communicate . Otherwise voice contact or setting your transponder to <URL> would generally be the preferred way to signal distress .
There are two primary factors that affect the skin temperature of an aircraft in flight : the air temperature , and the speed of the aircraft . The air temperature where airliners cruise is relatively cold , around <URL> . As a body like an aircraft moves through air , it compresses the air , which causes the air temperature to rise . The maximum temperature rise will be if the air is completely stopped , such as at a leading edge . This is called the <URL> , and the amount that the temperature rises is called the ram rise . Using a <URL> to find the ram rise : $ $ RR = \ frac { V ^ 2 } { 87 ^ 2 } $ $ ... where $ RR$ is in Kelvin , and $ V$ is the true airspeed in knots . Using a typical airliner cruising speed of 500 knots gives a temperature of 33 degrees . This brings the total air temperature to -22 ° C , which is still quite cold . At places other than the leading edge , the temperature rise will be less . This is why <URL> , even being insulated and pressurized . Airliners just do n't fly fast enough to produce a significant amount of heating . On the other hand , the SR-71 could fly at over 1,910 kts , which gives a ram rise of 482 ° C . The air does n't get much colder as you climb to the altitudes where the SR-71 flew , so this gives a total air temperature of over 400 ° C. Speed makes a huge difference .
There is transfer of control -- " I have the aircraft " / " You have the aircraft . " Then there is intervening -- which may or may not involve a transfer of control ... directing " you 're getting slow , ADD POWER NOW " may be a more effective example of intervening than taking control , depending on the phase of flight &amp; other circumstances . ( It 's easier for a First Officer to intervene with a directive " add power " or " go around " than than for him to take the aircraft ! ) And then there is what was shown in the video , which looks like neither of the above -- simply crew duties as @Lnafziger commented . The captain there did n't take over control ( yet -- the video ends before he takes over to taxi ) , they simply both pushed forward on the control column -- put weight on the nosewheel for better steering , perhaps . Looked perfectly normal &amp; expected . To answer the question as asked ( " Under what circumstances should the pilot not flying intervene without asking for aircraft control ? " ) , there are plenty of times when intervening without taking control could be appropriate -- the directive callout ( " ADD POWER ! " ) , or correcting an aircraft system or Flight Management Computer setting , for example . There are also a smaller set of times when " I have the aircraft ! " is appropriate : a disoriented pilot is about to fly into an unusual attitude , or a pilot is incapacitated in a phase of flight where there is no time for " hey , are you okay ? " to differentiate between distracted &amp; incapacitated . The captain always has the prerogative to take over , although there are plenty of times when something else is a better choice -- directing " go around " instead of taking the aircraft at low altitude to try &amp; salvage a bad landing , for instance . Particularly in cases of incapacitation , the FO also has that option , but realistically , he may have more explaining to do than the captain would have if roles were reversed . In a pure training situation ( initial formation flying in the military comes to mind ) , there are times when control may transfer back &amp; forth ... the student flies as far as he can , starts to get out of position , the instructor takes the aircraft , puts it back into position , the student is given control again , etc. . But that 's not really the sort of scenario you 'd see in airline operations . There might be times the pilot-monitoring captain ( i.e. he is the pilot not-flying on the FO 's leg ) might take over the FMC programming rather than talking the FO through the necessary changes -- sometimes it 's just better to do it &amp; explain what you 're doing rather than talk through each entry and button press . But that 's again not really the same as " I have the aircraft . " With qualified crews in the airline world , it just is n't all that common that a situation arises where one pilot has to assume control outside of the normal transfers ( i.e. the normal transfer to the captain on landing if he has the only nosewheel steering tiller ) . And , as noted in the comments , every transfer , both expected and unexpected , needs to be verbalized by both pilots : " I have the aircraft . " " You have the aircraft . "
Yes , this is dangerous and must be avoided . Consider this : Between the low speed range where the aileron works as intended and the high speed range where it works like a Flettner flap there is one speed point where the rolling moments of the aileron and the wing twist cancel each other out . There the aircraft is uncontrollable in roll . No sane pilot would fly such an aircraft voluntarily . Set the speed at which full aileron deflection produces only a quarter of the rolling moment coefficient as the never exceed speed .
During extension and retraction the gear drag is substantially higher than in the extended position . This has two reasons : When the gear moves , the first thing to happen is that the big bay doors open . They are also the last to close after the gear has reached its new position . During that time , the large cavity of the gear bay will cause additional drag , sometimes as much as half of the drag of the extended gear . When the wheels are close to the fuselage , their drag contribution is higher than when they are at some distance due to higher interference drag . <URL> Figure 38 from S. Hoerner 's <URL> , Chapter 13 page 14 . Note that after landing gear extension <URL> . The time it takes to retract the gear is similar to that where windshear will cause the biggest airspeed loss . Consequently , cycling the gear will increase drag over that of the extended configuration , and any improvement in aerodynamic quality due to a retracted gear can only be gained after the worst is over and the aircraft will speed up and climb anyway , regardless of gear position . Also , changing the configuration will be distracting in a stressful situation , and the risk of a wrong configuration change is increased . It is better to let the pilot focus on flying the plane than to burden her/him with additional work .
The time taken for the daily maintenance or ' A ' checks ( or any other checks for that matter ) depends on a number of parameters like : The aircraft configuration . The experience and skill level of the aircrew . The condition ( or age ) of the aircraft and its components . Requirement of any special checks ( whether manufacturer/regulator mandated or operator requirement ) Usually , the checks to be carried out during each schedule ( hourly or calender based ) are determined by the manufacturer ( sometimes in co-ordination with the operator ) and laid down . The time required is then calculated by actually timing the operations and adding correction factors or by statistical analysis over a period of time . One thing to note is that this is not exact and will vary based on a number of factors . For the same checks , different operators ( and manufacturer ) may allot different time periods . If two different checks ( for e.g. airframe and the engine ) are required to be carried out at the same time , the time required will differ .
FAA medical certificate requirements <URL> : Medical certificates are designated as first-class , second-class , or third-class . First-class is designed for the airline transport pilot Second-class for the commercial pilot Third-class for the student , recreational and private pilot Coming to your question , <URL> ( my highlighting ) : ... the ICAO naming structure for the various classes of medicals does not fit with that of the U.S. Under the ICAO definition , a second class medical applies only to holders of private pilot licenses . In most States , outside of the U.S. and Canada , it is easier to simply carry a valid first class medical rather than trying to explain to a foreign inspector that a FAA second class medical equals an ICAO class 1 medical . For more information , please <URL> .
I guess this will vary from airport and scenarios . Say if you are in a small Cessna on a little grass-strip : They will most likely always listen to you . However , In a passenger jet , on a busy airport : Things fast get a little more complicated . It is very expensive for an airliner to hold a plane , and even more to ground it . And it affects more people than it would with the Cessna scenario . If you tell , say the flight attendant while the plane is rolling down the taxiway that you hear abnormal sounds : They will likely misinterpret you as nervous and will most likely ignore it . But if you can somehow socially convince them : It is still the captain that makes the end decision about turning around . I do n't know if this has actually happened before other than in the article mentioned in the question . If there is something wrong about the plane : The captain will likely know well before you do . The engines have so many sensors and fail-safes that the captain will likely have the fault displayed in the cockpit before you even notice something unusual , and he will probably make the decision before you even reach a flight attendant .
end question
start question
How does flying below the freezing level in a thunderstorm help avoid the most critical icing ?
The icing occurs due to the presence of supercooled liquid droplets . From <URL> : The condition most favorable for very hazardous icing is the presence of many large , supercooled water drops ... Thus , heaviest icing usually will be found at or slightly above the freezing level where temperature is never more than a few degrees below freezing . For ice to form on the aircraft , the following conditions are required : The presence of liquid water i.e. rain or cloud droplets . The temperature at aircraft structure should be at or below freezing point . Now , as the altitude increases , temperature decreases . Using this , the best way to avoid these conditions would be to either : Fly above the altitude where the temperature is below -15 degrees , where supercooled water drops are not present ( they would 've frozen already ) , or Fly below the altitude where the temperature is above freezing point , where the water droplets , if present are not supercooled .
<URL> shows what happens in a spin . <URL> The <URL> shows a left turn , and the slip indicator shows a skid ( ball to the far left as well ) . To get out of it you 'd want to push hard on the right rudder pedal . The yaw damper does n't allow full rudder deflection . Also as the instructor shows , pushing the stick left and right does nothing . The stall protection will push forward , again wo n't help . The TBM 930 does n't have an auto-throttle , so there is no engine control involved either . The installed Electronic Stability and Protection ( ESP ) system does n't handle developed spins -- Leveling at 4,500 feet , I performed a series of steep turns , slow flight , an imminent stall with gear and flaps down , and a power-on stall . As the stall approaches , the G3000 's Underspeed Protection ( USP ) feature , linked to the angle of attack computer , comes alive as it automatically commands the autopilot servos to lower the nose . ESP , meanwhile , will attempt to return the airplane to level flight if bank or pitch angle limits are exceeded . -- <URL> Summary : The safety features on the TBM would alert and prevent getting into a stall or spin .
The speed limits were set by FAA in the early days of jet age for better control of the aircraft and safety where the air traffic ( in VFR ) is the densest and have little to do with noise . FAR § 91.117 states Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator , no person may operate an aircraft below 10,000 feet MSL at an indicated airspeed of more than 250 knots ( 288 m.p.h. ) . TWA Flight 553 , a DC 9 <URL> a Beechcraft Baron , killing 26 people on March 9 , 1967 . NTSB investigation determined that due to the high rate of descent of the DC-9 , its pilots were not able to see the other plane in time to avoid a collision . Following this accident the FAA issued Advisory Circular 90-32 titled ' Air traffic control and general operations , radar capabilities and limitations ' in Aug 1967 . According to <URL> on the accident , The FAA has adopted a rule establishing that all aircraft flying below 10,000 ft m.s.l will be limited to a maximum speed of 250kts effective December 15 , 1967 ... ( to ) provide a more realistic ' see and avoid ' environment in the airspace below 10,000 feet mean sea level ( MSL ) where the traffic congestion is greatest ...
$ V_X $ published in the manual is $ V_X $ for flaps up . $ V _ { X _ { F10 } } $ will be slower than $ V _ { X _ { UP } } $ . Most likely , the speed in the procedure is , or is very close to $ V _ { X _ { F10 } } $ . $ V_X $ ( speed for angle of best climb ) occurs where the excess thrust ( $ T$ - $ D$ ) is the highest . Refer to the graph below : $ D$ is Induced drag ( $ D_I $ , varies with $ \ frac { 1 } { v ^ 2 } $ ) + Parasite drag ( $ D_P $ , varies with $ v ^ 2 $ ) . By extending the flaps , you are increasing only $ D_P $ and the graph describing $ D$ ( $ D _ { tot } $ in the graph ) moves upwards to the left . This means that the point for $ V _ { MD } $ moves to the left . Since $ V_X $ is found at max $ T - D$ it varies with thrust too ( which will vary differently , depending on the type of propulsion system ) , and is not automatically found at $ V _ { MD } $ , but the two speeds generally move together in the same direction . There 's also another , albeit marignal , effect ( that i did not put in the graph ) to take into consideration for the first 10-20 ft , and that 's the ground effect . In ground effect , the aircrafts $ D_I $ will be lower , further moving the $ D$ graph to the left , and downwards , resulting in a lower $ V _ { MD } $ , and therefore generally also lower $ V_X $
It is called a <URL> and I do n't think that any of the present generation large commercial aircraft use them . That said , a number of older commercial aircraft have used them , a good example being the Sud Caravelle . <URL> Image from eu.airliners.net There are some issues with using drogue chutes in a commercial airliner , which would limit their effectiveness . Most commercial airliners have thrust reversers already . For it to be effective , the parachute has to be quite huge . For example , the Handley Page Victor , which had MTOW in the range of A320 , had a drogue chute 48 ' ( or 14.6 m ) in diameter . The chute would occupy volume and increase weight . If drogue chutes are used , they have to be packed before every flight , which will increase turnaround times . Another option is to replace them at the end of every deployment , which would increase costs . Deployment failure/partial deployment/Uncommanded deployment will affect the safety of the flight . The need to use a drogue chute can limit the crosswind landing of the airliner significantly . Aircraft dragging a huge chute during taxiing back to the ramp is not a good idea from FoD point of view .
Basically , dihedral effect is that during banking , the ' lower ' wing will experience a higher angle of attack compared to the ' higher ' wing , and a result , a greater lift . The resulting net force and moment reduces the banking angle , reducing stability . Consider a wing with a dihedral angle $ \ Gamma $ with a forward airspeed of $ u $ . If the sideslip angle is $ \ beta $ , the wind due to sideslip is $ u \ cdot sin \ beta $ . From geometry , the normal velocity induced due to dihedral , $ v _ { n } $ becomes $ u \ cdot sin \ beta \ cdot sin \ Gamma $ . <URL> Image from <URL> Note : The notations are different in the figure ; but the principle is the same . For our purposes , we can take the sideslip velocity ( $ u \ cdot sin \ beta $ ) as $ v _ { y } $ . Now , consider two sections from the wing - one each from the ' lower ' and ' higher ' sides . The induced velocity is of the same magnitude in both the sides , while the direction differs , as can be seen from the above figure . <URL> Image from <URL> <URL> Image from <URL> For small angles , $ v _ { y } $ is nearly equal to $ u \ beta $ . The induced angle can be given as , $ \ Delta \ alpha = \ frac { v _ { n } } { u } $ . From the earlier relations , we have , $ \ Delta \ alpha _ { 1 } = \ beta \ cdot sin \ Gamma $ , and $ \ Delta \ alpha _ { 2 } = - \ beta \ cdot sin \ Gamma $ . Because of these induced angles , the lift on the downgoing wing increases by $ \ Delta L$ , while of the other one decreases by $ \ Delta L$ . The net result is that the ' lower ' wing experiences an increases lift , causing a rolling moment , which causes the banking angle to reduce . <URL> Image from <URL>
The V22 Osprey yaws by tilting one rotor backwards from the vertical and one forward by moving the <URL> up on one side and down on the other causing a cyclic change to the rotor blade angles of attack . This is accomplished using the pedals in just the same way as a helicopter . Since the rotors are tilted from the vertical , this introduces a horizontal component to the thrust vector . The rearwards titled rotor produces a horizontal thrust component to the rear and the forwards tilted rotor produces a horizontal thrust component to the front . This produces a turning moment , using the wings as the lever , around the centre of gravity and therefore the aircraft yaws . The secondary effects will be as expected . Since some of the thrust vector is no longer vertical , a little more power will be required to maintain height and I expect that there will be a pitch change although I 'm not familiar enough with the aerodynamics of this type to figure out which way and how big .
Turning on the autopilot is generally a single button or switch , but with a caveat . That big panel with the altitude selector , heading bug , nav options , etc programs the flight director , which is most likely enabled prior to even taking off and pre-programmed with your initial altitude leveloff , departure heading , etc. . While hand flying the pilot not flying who is operating the radios will update the flight director settings as your ATC instructions vary . This is generally updating altitude , heading and engaging nav . When it is time to let Otto fly , at that point it is just a single button to slave the autopilot to the flight director .
So there are potentially two ways to interpret your question . First is a pilot who holds an FAA commercial pilot certification , second is a societal occupation label generally referring to a pilot performing as a crewmember of a 14CFR Part 121 scheduled air carrier airway , or colloquially , an airline pilot . In both cases the idea that any pilot need to be exceptionally capable at math is a fallacy . I suspect it 's a holdover from the 40 's and 50 's when all flight planning calculations needed to be done by hand . Now all of that is automated and even allowed during the FAA written tests . Additionally , needing strong math skills is often claimed when an individual is actually thinking of a test pilot or aeronautical engineer , which both require very strong algebra and calculus skills . That said , there are some areas in the higher level written exams that rewrite you know how to calculate weight and balance , but these all relay on standardized some equations that are n't exceptionally difficult for even a novice . These written exams include the Airline Transport Pilot ( which will be required for the second interpretation ) , Dispatcher Certificate , and Flight Engineer .
My copy of " EW 101 : A First Course in Electronic Warfare " calls it " formation jamming " . <URL> Mind you , an operator of a radar with non-cooperative threat recognition capability will at least suspect something is wrong ( although not from all aspects and ranges ) .
Was it anything to be concerned No Should I have brought it to the notice of the airline crew ? Yes , but not because it is a safety issue . Tell them so they can deal with it to give the next passenger a nicer experience . What is happening is no different than a glass of ice water sitting on your kitchen counter . The warmer side of the glass ( the outside ) becomes cooler because of the cold on the inside and it transfers that coolness to the surrounding air . That surrounding air cools enough to cause the moisture it contained to condense into liquid that sticks to your glass . If the glass were cold enough , it would freeze that condensation . The window on the aircraft is that cold so the condensation freezes . There is a mechanism under the window to keep this from happening . It is a jar of <URL> that absorbs all moisture ( dries the air ) in the window area so that there is no moisture to condense in the first place . Often , there is a tiny bit still . As the desiccant absorbs moisture from the air , it retains it . So periodically , it gets saturated to the point it ca n't absorb anymore and the desiccant needs to be changed . Either the desiccant in your window needed to be changed or moist air is bypassing the desiccant on its way to the inside surface of the window . Normally there is a seal between the outside window and that thin plastic window you can touch and the only way for air to get in or out of that inter-window area is through the desiccant . Your window may have a broken seal allowing moist air to bypass the desiccant . Either way , it is a system designed only to keep the window from forming ice so the passengers can look out the window , it has no safety or structural consequences .
<URL> is how the helicopter flies in most situations . It flies similar to an airplane in this situation , with pitching up and down to increase and decrease airspeed . This is controlled by use of forward and aft cyclic . Straight flight is where the tail rotor is set so that it opposes the turning tendency of the main rotor . This essentially prevents the helicopter from yawing while in flight . This is controlled by using the anti-torque pedals . Level flight is simply when the helicopter is flying at a constant altitude . This does not mean , however that its nose is pointed ahead , or that it is flying forward , merely that it is not gaining or losing altitude . I 'm not sure exactly what cruise flight is . When a helicopter is " cruising " , it most likely is maintaining altitude and flying straight ahead , but I do n't think there is a separate term for it .
I did all my training in PA-28 's ( Warrior and Archer II mainly ) and here is my advice ) First off , practice makes perfect in all cases here . Second , I am not a CFI and you should ALWAYS seek the experience of a CFI to help you learn how to fly properly . Discuss everything with your CFI before trying anything . The PA-28 is one of the most benign airframes and even in the bumpiest the bumpiest of conditions you can fly it by the numbers every time . Floating on landing is generally caused by ( in my experience ) 2 things . Excessive speed on final - Remember you will only land nicely once you have gotten rid of all excess speed . This happens during your round-out and flare to landing . On a short field even a perfect landing will take up more runway if you are overspeed since you need to bleed that speed off . Ballooning - This is generally a result of over speed and over flaring . Since the PA-28 is a low wing ( compared to the high wing of the C172 ) an over-flare to early will cause significant ballooning as you effectively bounce off the ground effect . A proper timed round out and flare will come in time . One thing you can do to mitigate this ( and I found this helped as a student pilot for me ) is to fly a longer final leg ( and thus a longer downwind ) . When I was learning to fly a stable approach it took time for me to get the settings in and really nail the approach . A longer final will help you settle the plane into place as a student and really nail a maneuver like this . Generally tight patterns are taught but if its safer and better for you to fly a longer final and nail the maneuver , do it . In the PA-28 's you can ( and should ) be right on 65 kts when doing a soft field . Practice descending at a constant airspeed at altitude with your instructor . 500ft/min right on 65Kts with full flaps , then come back into the pattern and use what you learned to come in right as you should . Cut the power a bit earlier . Generally you are most likely taught to cut the power over the numbers and touch down at the markers . In a short field situation you can cut the power a bit earlier , pitch down to keep you speed up , and touch down right on the numbers . <URL> Train at an actual short field ( or as short as you are allowed to fly ) . My flight school generally had us going between 5000ft airports with 2 runways ( we were based at KPNE ) . Crosswinds were never really an issue and runway length left plenty of margin for error . My instructor made it a point to take me to 3000 X 60 fields to really get practice in ( the shortest the fligh schools insurance would cover ) . Depending on where you are training out of this may not be an issue . One more general habit of new pilots is over correcting and getting your self into an increasingly corrective state . This happens both laterally and vertically but in your case the vertical over correction is going to be the killer . If you are comming in and notice that you are low you add power , pitch up a bit and now you are too high . You pull power and pitch back down but this builds up some speed . Now you find your self over correcting all over the place to get back to a stabilized aproach . This is where the long final will help . You need to really get the plane on that 65Kt mark , trim it off , leave the power alone and fly it in . If you get bumped by a gust or a thermal wait a second and see if the termal settles then and only then should you come in with a small correction .
Its a bit dated but here is a <URL> . Keep in mind these are navy pilots , often considered the best of the best and in peek physical condition . Based on the publish year I would suspect all subjects were male as well . Here is <URL> on reaction times for pilots on low sleep . This is <URL> , might be of some help . An additional question I have related to this is , how can one design an aircraft to make it difficult for pilots to enter PIO 's ? This is an interesting question and in some regards could be its own question here . One of the big debates ( mainly between Boeing and Airbus ) is if systems like this should exist and who has the final say in terms of control deflection . Airbus takes the approach that the computers should prevent the pilot of say pulling back on the stick and stalling the plane . While Boeing generally allows pilots to be the final say and while their systems will warn of a stall you can ultimately pill back the column until the plane stalls . In terms of how you would design something like this you would have to limit control input after an approach to oscillation was detected .
Not a local thing at all ! In Australia , it is extremely common to hear , especially for aircraft on departure . Listening to LiveATC , particularly Sydney International Approach/Departure ( YSSY ) you will quite often hear ATC give an aircraft permission to exceed 250KIAS below 10,000 ft. Qantas 123 : Approach , QFA123 , with you passing 2,300 , climbing 5,000 . . Sydney Approach : QFA123 , Identified , Climb FL240 , cancel speed restrictions below 10,000 . . There are a number of reasons this is used . The first , I have already hinted to in the example radio call above . Departures : It is extremely common to hear ATC cancel speed restrictions on departing aircraft . This gives better separation for aircraft departing in the same direction . For example , one of the busiest sectors in the world is Sydney - Melbourne Australia . The common SID 's out of Sydney for Melbourne are the DEENA4 WOL transition and the WOL1 Departure , depending on operational runway . As a large amount of aircraft use these departures , the further the lead aircraft can get on the SID prior to the trailing aircraft becoming airborne , the better . Arrivals : Again , using Sydney , they receive a large amount of Regional Turbo-Prop traffic ( Dash 8-Q300 / Q400 , Saab 340B , BE350 ) . You will commonly hear Approach cancel speed restrictions on these aircraft on decent so they can give them more space on the approach . They land reasonably slower than a B747/A380 , so the more room , the better . Another reason is simple . These guys are operating commercial operations , hence faster is better , especially on descent . So if there is no or low traffic in the TMA , ATC will commonly release the speed restriction on aircraft to accommodate the company operations .
OK , I sat on my hands for a while , so now I 'll stick my head in the lion 's mouth . You should absolutely sump your tanks every time you go flying as part of a routine preflight inspection , whether you 've taken on fuel or not , whether the aircraft has been hangared or out on the ramp , and even if it 's below freezing . Water is n't the only thing you 're looking for ( misfueling happens - also bits of fuel tank sealant , rubber from a rotting bladder , dirt that made it past the fueling truck 's filters , etc. - you want to find these things ! ) Ideally if it 's below freezing you should also pre-heat your aircraft so the <URL> , instruments , and fuel are above freezing when you 're preflighting ( which is generally accomplished by sticking the plane in a heated hangar ) , but sometimes that 's not an option and you make do . Why should you sump the tanks if it 's below freezing ? Well like I said above , water is n't the only thing we 're looking for - and all those concerns still hold valid no matter what the temperature is . Water is the one that people seem to come up with as a reason for not sumping when it 's below freezing though , so let 's talk about water : There are five general ways water can manifest itself in your ( Avgas ) fuel system : Liquid Water If it 's not been below freezing ( or it 's really sunny and your fuel tanks have acted like an oven ) water may be liquid , waiting for you at the sump drain just like on a warm summer day . You 'll drain it out and go on about your business . Slush ( ice crystals suspended in the fuel ) If it 's below freezing you may have suspended ice crystals or slush in the fuel ( particularly if you just took on fuel ) . This will look " cloudy " when you drain it from the sump and it 's a good indication that today is not a good day to fly : you may have a LOT of water in the fuel , and you need to need to deal with it ( warm the plane up and drain off the water , and figure out how so much of it got in there in the first place ) . ( There is a chance that slush could jam your fuel drain open , in which case your fuel tank will empty itself onto the ramp with great rapidity . ) Little bits of ice Little drops of water can freeze into little bits of ice , which are often just too big to come out of the fuel sump drain , but just small enough to lodge in it and keep it from closing ( which , again , will cause your tank to empty itself onto the ramp with great rapidity . This is also an indication that today is not a good day to fly ) . BIG bits of ice over the sump drain Liquid water will flow to the lowest point in the fuel system ( the drains ) . If it 's below freezing it will freeze there , potentially blocking the sump drain . You 'll notice this condition because the sump valve may feel stiff , your tank may not drain , or it will drain very slowly , possibly with water in the fuel . This is a good indication that you should n't fly until you figure out what the cause of the problem is ( it could be ice , it could be a defective valve , or it could be a bunch of other things , but until you know you want to stay on the ground ) . Hidden Ice ( big bits of ice away from the sump drain ) This is perhaps the most insidious : Ice that 's not near the sump , and does n't block or jam anything . Hopefully you 'll spot this sitting at the bottom of your tank when you look in to check the fuel level ( you do visually check your fuel level , right ? ) , but you probably wo n't notice anything out of the ordinary when you sump the tank . ( There are of course other ways water can hide out in the system besides the fuel tanks , but these are where you 're most likely to find it . ) The most likely " bad thing " to happen to you in any of those scenarios is that your fuel sump will be jammed open by ice . This means you 'll spill a tank 's worth of avgas on the ground , and you 'll have to call your airport 's spill cleanup/emergency number and let them know . That emergency is on the ground , and it may be a little embarrassing to have to explain to the spill cleanup folks , but it 's better than the other possibilities . The Bad Things that can happen to you in the air if you go flying with undetected ice/water in the fuel are far worse : The ice could melt and your engine could start trying to burn water , which does n't ignite very well . <URL> for one example of how things can go catastrophically wrong if you neglect to sump your tanks ( or ignore the warning signs when you do ) .
The FAA has <URL> disturbances into four levels : Level 1 : Disruptive behavior - suspicious or threatening Level 2 : Physically abusive behavior Level 3 : Life-threatening behavior Level 4 : Attempted or actual breach of the flight deck These are also ICAO standard classifications from the restricted Doc 9811 , according to <URL> . I 'm not sure who came up with them first . That IATA document also provides sample things that might be considered to be each level .
Your question appears to assume that thrust reversers are an acceptable way of keeping an aircraft from sliding off a slippery runway . While this may be true in rare cases , generally speaking you would NOT want to use reverse thrust to avoid skidding off a runway as that typically would exacerbate the problem . Consider the following scenario : you have an icy runway and a strong crosswind from the right . As you start the takeoff roll , the airplane begins drifting left . You apply right rudder to correct , and the aircraft heading moves to the right of the runway direction . If you resolve the engines thrust vector into it 's components relative to the runway centerline , you have most of the thrust propelling you down the runway , a much lesser amount propelling you toward the right side of the runway . Lets say the left drift continues in spite of the engine thrust vector driving the aircraft to the right side of the runway , and you decide to abort the takeoff using reverse thrust . Thus , the thrust vector relative to the runway centerline will slow the aircraft . However the thrust vector 90 & deg ; to the runway centerline will be toward the left side of the runway , which when added to your leftward drift will likely put you off the left side of the runway . If you Google " tower air 747 crash " you 'll see a number of entries concerning just such a scenario and the result . I found <URL> to be the most instructive , although I do not wholly agree with the conclusions or with the narrative of what happened ( a friend of mine was in the jumpseat right behind the captain , and I flew as a f.o. with that captain ) . An obvious answer to your question is to never get yourself into such a serious situation . Can you wait for better conditions ? Is another runway available ? But if you MUST use a slippery runway for either takeoff or landing ( or have already foolishly committed yourself ) , remember that if a runway is that slippery , it 's feasible to continue down the runway in a manner that your course ( the runway direction ) does n't match your heading . If the captain of the Tower Air flight had elected to do that , he might not have had the accident he did , or he might have had a much more serious accident . Tough call !
<URL> their Avgas 100LL will not freeze above -58 ° C . <URL> The ' typical ' freezing temperature is not given , but I would expect we 'd be more interested in the maximum freezing temperature .
Say you are flying on a route that requires an even level , but you would like an odd level such as FL350 . The phraseology to use would be Request FL350 The rest is up to ATC . Depending on local agreements and the current situation , we may be able to grant you the level right away , maybe we need to pick up the phone and talk to downstream sectors or maybe we ca n't offer the level at all . In any case , there is no harm in asking . Regarding the part of your question that mentions weather , if you are requesting a level change because of extreme weather ( such as moderate/severe turbulence or icing ) , state so in your request . We will then handle your request with higher priority , and you are more likely to get the different level . Request FL350 due to moderate icing
end question
start question
What safety features prevent jets sucking in ground staff or equipment ?
No , there are no safety features . Only safety procedures on the flight deck and on the ground . Basically it all boils down to that nobody may go near any aircraft ( jet or prop ; they are both similarly dangerous ) that may have engines running . When starting the engines , the pilots first turn on the beacon ( the red flashing lights on the belly and tail ) , then check the ground crew has left and only then start the engine ( s ) . And similarly upon landing , the pilots shut the engines down , wait a bit to let them spool down and turn off the beacons ; then the ground crew should ask ( via radio or the wired intercom connected to a socket at the nose ) whether the engines are indeed off and only then they may start working . Since start-up normally only happens after push-back , so away from the terminal , there is usually no risk then . Upon arrival however the ground crew needs to come to the aircraft relatively quickly and insert chocks to the wheels , so the correct procedures are important . <URL> where ground worker was injured because the procedures were not followed ( he was coming from the rear , so he was only blown away , not sucked in ) . In that incident , the engines were at idle . They are still very dangerous in that case . I found an Airbus document which shows danger areas , for A320 with CFM56 engines , at idle as : suction danger 2.2 m ( 7.2 ft ) from engines ( semicircle forward and to the sides of the engine and back to 1.5 m behind the inlet ) and exhaust danger to 55m ( 180ft ) behind the nozzles with 30 ° spread with exhaust velocity exceeding 105km/h ( 65mi/h ) for 17m ( 55ft ) aft of the nozzles . At full power the suction area grows to 5.9 m ( 19.5 ft ) radius and the exhaust danger to 275m ( 900ft ) with velocity over 105km/h down to 150m ( 500ft ) aft .
There are numerous methods for air-to-ground communications . I may be missing a few , but off the top of my head , here are the ones I can remember : normal VHF comms Operational staff at the airport maintain an operations frequency that you can use just as you would would ATC . The limiting factor here is the requirement of line-of-sight with the ground antenna and this limits range . We could normally raise ops about 30-40 minutes out , at altitude , if someone was actually listening . This is similar to a GA pilot calling unicom to arrange ground services . This method is also used for maintenance at some stations and for talking to fuelers and deicing operators . <URL> This is a selective calling protocol that operates over HF and VHF frequencies . Each participating airplane and ground station ( typically a dispatcher or ATC ) has a code and if you know the code you want to communicate with , you can establish two-way communications with them . To use this in the air required tuning a specific frequency and using a hand-mic with a keypad to dial the ground station code . On the ground I 'm not sure the exact method they use ( phone patch ? ) but when they called us we 'd get an aural " SELCAL " announced by the airplane along with a light to alert us . <URL> This service provides VHF-to-PSTN patches and allows you to call your dispatchers actual phone , medlink , or anyone with a phone you feel like calling . This worked by calling an operator over the normal radios and having them dial a number and connecting us together . Satellite phone Works just like any other satellite phone and use the Iridium network . <URL> This works just like text messaging . Select your recipient , type a message and hit send . You get alerts when messages arrive . The interface I 'm familiar with in the airplane is a program in the FMS with limited pre-set recipients you could contact ( dispatch and perhaps a few others ) . The ACARS software can also be setup to send specific messages to specific stations , e.g. an " In-Range " message which is routed to operations at your destination . From the ground side , this is usually baked into the dispatch flight-following software . Our dispatchers could right click on an airplane , get a menu , pick " text message " and type a message that would be sent to that airplane .
No , they were not designed separately . They were designed by people who had all participated in collaborations before . The origin was the research into unstable configurations performed by <URL> in Germany in the late 1970s by a modified F-104 , the control configured vehicle <URL> . <URL> F-104 CCV ( picture <URL> ) As a result , MBB designed the Taktisches Kampfflugzeug 90 ( or TKF-90 ) , the first design of an unstable delta canard which promised unmatched maneuverability . Since Germany could not afford to develop the aircraft all by itself , collaborations were started with both Dassault and BAe , so that French and British engineers could learn of the advantages of this layout . <URL> MBB TKF-90 concept ( picture <URL> ) First , BAe collaborated with MBB and joined the TKF-90 design , resulting in the European Collaborative Fighter proposal , only to continue on their own with two delta canard designs of their own , P. 106 and P. 110 . P. 106 had one engine and one vertical tail while P. 110 had two of both , like the TKF-90 . P. 106 was rejected by the RAF , but went into a collaboration with Saab and eventually became the JAS-39 . To be fair , the first company to build and fly a closely-coupled delta canard was Saab with their <URL> . Saab has a long history of innovative work , beginning with ejection seats in 1942 and sweptback jets in 1948 . <URL> Saab 37 Viggen ( picture <URL> ) . In contrast to the TKF-90 it was an aerodynamically stable layout . Meanwhile , MBB collaborated with Dassault in the Future European Fighter Aircraft ( FEFA ) program , so the French side learned of the advantages of a delta canard . Eventually , the French wanted less air-to-air capabilities and a smaller aircraft for better export chances , and the remaining FEFA partners continued in the European Fighter Aircraft ( EFA ) program which resulted in the EF-2000 , while Dassault went it alone with the Rafale . The EF-2000 is hampered to this day by this heritage . Its wing area was decreed by <URL> and <URL> to be no more than 50 m ² when a 60 m ² wing would had resulted in a much more capable design . Next , the British engineers insisted on a straight leading edge , ignorant of the fact that only a cranked delta would provide good post-stall pitch characteristics . They also refused to accept a <URL> , and the German side could only rescue the " smiling intake " in order to reduce the radar cross section of the EF-2000 somewhat . <URL> " Smiling intake " of the EF-2000 ( picture <URL> ) . The curved contour avoids corner reflections of electromagnetic waves . And do n't get me started on the odd location of the airbrake : On the center fuselage where it is least effective at high angle of attack and will blanket the single vertical tail . Designed by a committee with too many British engineers .
I do n't know for certain as I 'm not military , but I imagine that they pressurize the fuel tanks using bleed air , much like jet airliners do . It 's also likely that they make use of boost and ejector pumps to provide positive pressure directly to more centrally-located tanks which the engines then feed from . ( from <URL> [ pdf ] ) The F-15 has both wing &amp; fuselage tanks ; <URL> : The left and right engine feed tanks contain baffles in order to provide a limited amount of fuel to the boost pumps during inverted flight or during negative G maneuvers Left wing tank Auxiliary tank Left engine feed tank Right wing tank Right engine feed tank Tank 1 ( main tank ) <URL> that limit the speed at which fuel can flow from one end to another , usually to prevent fuel sloshing and screwing up balance .
Table of contents Future focii Short answer - Important : stealth , sensors ( radar &amp; IR ) , data fusion , networking , long-range weapons . Unimportant : dogfighting with guns . Future counter-detection and counter-measures - Important : RF and IR stealth , lasers , hard-kill defenses How will stealth fighters fight each other ? - including THE MOST IMPORTANT LESSON Busting myths Myth : Stealth aircraft ca n't use radars / radars reveal your location - LPI radar Myth : IR sensors render stealth obsolete - IR range is short ; shorter than radar range against nonstealthy a/c , but greater than radar range against stealthy a/c Myth : US lags behind Russia/Europe in IR tech - US had less need ( better radars ) ; US has very good IR tech Myth : Stealth makes you invisible to radar - very hard to see , not invisible Myth : Stealth is obsolete / a hoax / just marketing - vastly reduced detection range ; more efficient jamming ; dictate engagements Myth : WWII/low-freq radars make stealth obsolete / an F-117 was shot down with this one simple trick - Low-freq radars have limited use ; F-117 story is untrue . Myth : most combat is WVR dogfighting - not since the 1960s Myth : Guns are primary weapons . F-4 's were massacred by obsolete MiG-21s in Vietnam because they did n't have guns . F-4 guns myth - the F-4s did just fine Welcome to the BVR missile era - where missiles take all the credit , and you usually do n't see your enemy Resources - for modern air combat Glossary As aircraft become stealthier , we 'll rely more on the following : Non-radio sensing IR search and track ( IRST ) Optical sensing ( EO/IR are/can be combined into essentially an EO/IR telescope . Future designs will use multiple bands ( MWIR , SWIR , color HDTV ) , have wider fields of view Mid-future : laser tracking and targeting . High-powered lasers ( 100s of kW ) for fighters <URL> , but in the meantime they could obtain very high quality bearing , range , speed , and altitude information . Networking and data fusion Highly integrated aircraft sensors Off-board targeting Eg , a very stealthy sensor platform feeding targeting info to less stealthy ( even non-stealthy ) launch platforms . Advanced radars Multi-band or broadband radars ( integrated mid/high-frequency capabilities ) More powerful AESA radars Better processing Multi-static arrays to detect side-aspect radar returns . Side-looking radars . Again , VLO a/c are not equally stealthy in all directions . They are least detectable from the front aspect . For instance , the F-22 was to be upgraded with cheek-mounted , side-looking radars , but these were cancelled to reduce cost . Even better stealth Short answer Detection ranges will shrink ( against other LO fighters ) . IR sensors may become the primary means of detection . Fighters may cruise at low subsonic speeds to delay detection . Radar will still remain the primary sensor for years to come ( at least 2 decades , the minimum time for adversaries to field large numbers of LO a/c ) . Stealth remains essential . DATA FUSION and NETWORKING become hugely important ; large forces must fight as seamless units . Remote targeting will become more common . Very , very stealthy sensors ( eg , F-22 successor ) may pass targeting info to less stealthy shooters ( eg , F-22 , F-35 , F-15 , missile truck with VLRAAMs ) Future AAMs will feature datalinks and multimode seekers ( eg , IR , RF , and laser ) , improving counter-measure resistance . Many AAMs already have datalinks -- shooter guides the missile until the missile 's own seeker acquires the target . Advanced propulsion systems debut ( multi-pulse motors , ducted-rocket/ramrockets , scramjets ) , yielding longer range , higher speed , imrpoved kinematics . Defenses will improve , requiring deeper magazines ( smaller weapons and/or larger internal payload bays ) . Space , weight , power , and cooling requirements go up . Aircraft grow larger . Dogfighting will remain rare . Short-range , maneuvering combat will remain unsurvivable with the advent of reliable , high-performance , high Pk , HOBS missiles and helmet-mounted cueing systems . Also , lasers do n't miss . ( See below . ) 5th gen fighters ( F-22 , F-35 ) will thoroughly dominate over 4th gen fighters ( F-15 , Su-35 , Typhoon ) . Regarding counter-detection and counter-measures Fighters will better hide their RF and IR signature . See : engine exhaust troughs on F-117 , B-2 , YF-23 , and 6th gen fighter concepts . See : AETD , ADVENT , and F135 upgrades . Tails may disappear . EW ( eg , jamming ) will remain important ( See : ) . DIRCM ( directed IR countermeasures , an IR laser to jam/kill missile IR seekers ) will protect fighters and bombers . Already slated for the F-35 . Hard-kill missile defenses will debut ( likely small anti-missile missiles in near-term ; anti-missile lasers 20 + years hence ) . Today , we rely primarily on soft-kill defenses , like jamming and decoys . Answering the question : how will stealth fighters fight each other ? With better sensors and better stealth . With mid -
She kept the Squadron Leader updated as much as she needed to , but she preferred to keep comms chatter to a minimum when she was ... Military-related terms : ... <URL> ... <URL> ... on a <URL> ... on <URL> [ British English , specifically used for search and rescue ] ... <URL> [ British and American English , respectively ] General terms : ... in the air ... airborne ... at the controls ... flying ... in flight ... on a mission ... doing ( her ) rounds ... aloft There might be other , more technical terms in use in the military for specific operations or missions but I have no experience there .
In common parlance , " General Aviation " typically means " not-airline " . In the <URL> , the FAA now defines General Aviation as : That portion of civil aviation that does not include scheduled or unscheduled air carriers or commercial space operations . and it gives the ICAO definition : All civil aviation operations other than scheduled air services and nonscheduled air transport operations for remuneration or hire . Both these definitions are closely tied to commercial operations , and they go out of their way to point out that non-scheduled air carriers are NOT general aviation . Note that " civil aviation " would mean " not military " . Historically the term has been very colloquial , and to some extent you will still find different definitions from everyone . However , IMHO these are the most clear definitions available .
A vertical take-off , known as a " towering " or " confined area " take-off , is normally only used when it is not possible to take-off and remain in <URL> before gaining speed and climbing away . For example , your operational need is to land in a clearing in a forest or perhaps a field surrounded by tall trees . In order to take off again , you need to climb vertically until you 've cleared the tops of the trees so that you can transition forward to gain speed . You might need to use on at night ( because you can not see if there are any obstacles ahead ) or when taking off from snow or sand when your vision will be obscured , making a vertical take-off safer . It is technically defined as any take-off which requires you to climb vertically until out of ground effect . <URL> , I 've discussed the reasons why the power required to transition in ground effect to forward flight is much less than that required in a hover or a vertical climb out of ground effect . Before attempting a towering take off , the pilot should conduct a power check to establish that they have enough power to hover OGE ( out of ground effect ) . If you do have enough power to hover OGE , then in theory , you could continue to climb vertically until the reduction in engine power output or lift ( small effect ) as you gain altitude reduces the power margin to the point where further climb is not possible without exceeding limits . So , to the point of your question , why is it not safe ? The main reason is a scenario which is common to all helicopter operations , not just a towering take off . Climbing vertically to 90 feet is exactly as dangerous as coming to a 90 foot hover in an arrival from forward flight . This scenario is putting yourself into a shaded area of the <URL> , known by pilots as the " avoid curve " or perhaps more accurately the " dead man 's " curve . Importantly , this has nothing to do with how much power you have which of course , if the engine stops , suddenly becomes zero ! <URL> <URL> In short , test pilots , using a fully loaded helicopter over level , prepared surfaces , try to enter <URL> from different combinations of height and speed . At some point , they look at each other and say " a normal , well trained pilot , could only just auto-rotate safely from that combination of height and speed . They plot these points on a graph , join the dots and say " see those shaded areas , do n't go there " . It represents the areas where you will not have enough of the combination of potential and kinetic energy to make a safe landing . As you can see , the towering take-off puts you deep inside the avoid curve . This is the first safety concern . If the engine stops , you will almost certainly crash . I chose that curve , for an Enstrom F28 , because it nicely illustrates that if you continued climbing vertically to 300 feet , you would pop out of the top of the curve . From this height , you could auto-rotate safely . The second safety concern goes back to the power required . If you run out of power during the climb , the aircraft may start to descend into its own rotor vortex and can enter a <URL> . In a confined area , you have no options for escaping it and certainly , all but the best pilots will not avoid a crash or , at best , a very heavy landing . I 'm a relatively low time private pilot and when I do my power checks , I want to see at least a 10 % additional reserve over the measured power check . There have been times when pilots have landed in confined areas but have then not had the power to hover OGE . They have had to reduce the weight and/or wait for a lower temperature before trying again . The third safety concern is the need for good skills and training . When performing towering take-offs in typical sport and private helicopters , the pilot must be gentle on the controls . Relatively large or rapid control inputs cause large spikes in the power required . When you have plenty of speed , <URL> but when climbing vertically , you might be calling for more power than is available . You must climb OGE slowly with gentle collective increases and , when clear of the top of the trees or other obstacle , ease the cyclic forward gently . It is this last input which is especially risky . If you push the cyclic forward as you would in a normal take off , you could find yourself running out of power and settling into the top of the tree with nothing left to give . The safe way to do it is a slow climb but obviously , this leaves you in the shaded area for longer . I was always relieved when I cleared the trees and got back into normal flight and the temptation , which must be resisted , is to increase your climb rate to reduce the time on the curve but of course , this reduces your power margins . The general principle is to use the power required and no more . Gentle climb , gentle movements , be ready to pick up wind as you clear the obstacle , and you 'd better have made sure before you get there that it 's a head wind . The fourth safety concern ( and the last one to my knowledg
In the modern day and age , it is very difficult to put a numerical value to this type of question , simply because the chance of something happening is so incredibly remote . This is not a clear-cut equation and is dependant on several factors . A few thoughts : The impact of loosing one engine will be less significant on a four-engined aircraft than a two-engined aircraft . You only loose 25 % of thrust as compared to 50 % . However , two engined jets are built with greater safety margin and are able to handle an engine failure at any phase in the flight . Four engined jets are certified to be able to fly on two engines on one side of the wing . In theory , you are twice as likely to suffer an engine failure with four engines , since you have twice as many engines . While the lost thrust would be less significant , very rarely damage can propagate to cause damage to other parts ( See <URL> and <URL> ) . In general , it is easier , cheaper and faster to maintain two engines than four . Should a complete engine swap be necessary for instance , you only need to do it twice instead of four times . Every extra step is an step where something could theoretically could go wrong . The <URL> ( Boeing 777 ) is certified to handle ' large ' birds ( 4kg ) as compared to the <URL> ( Airbus A340 ) only being able to handle ' medium ' birds . Hence , the Boeing 777 engines are likely to be a bit more robust . From a human perspective , pilot workload will be lower with two engines rather than four . Should something happen in a time-critical emergency , there will be more systems you need to keep an overview of . See <URL> . Furthermore , not every engine-related incident is spared simply cause you have four engines . <URL> lost all four engines due to volcanic ash . On <URL> , the engines failed in unison due to ice in the heat exchanger on the engines that were operating in identical conditions . Despite ETOPS being around for several decades and applying to thousands of aircraft I have not heard about a single accident involving commercial jets operating in that domain .
After looking through the FAR 's , the answer is no , the rear passenger seat can not be occupied by somebody claiming to be a " safety pilot " . <URL> : ( c ) No person may operate a civil aircraft in simulated instrument flight unless -- ( 1 ) The other control seat is occupied by a safety pilot who possesses at least a private pilot certificate with category and class ratings appropriate to the aircraft being flown . ( 2 ) The safety pilot has adequate vision forward and to each side of the aircraft , or a competent observer in the aircraft adequately supplements the vision of the safety pilot ; and ( Emphasis Mine ) So the safety pilot basically has to be able to access the controls and have vision that supplements the pilot , meaning must be able to see as well as the pilot position would .
Paraglider Pilots can induce a stall by holding the brakes at seat or waist height until the wing retards . The wing does not want to do this and will resist but a full stall will eventually be induced this way . Pilots will feel and hear the reduction in forward airspeed . To come out of a stall , the pilot may smoothly move the position of the brakes upwards anticipating a surge where the wing recovers and may dive or surge in front of the pilot . Performing a 360 in light wind conditions , the side of the wing on the inside of the turn may stall . Typically , smoothly and promptly coming out of the turn using the brakes , will cause the wing to recover , failure to recover may result in a flat spin . Flying near full speed with minimum brake also risks a deflation of the wing on the left centre or right sides . This might be exacerbated if the pilots all-up weight is at the upper or lower weight limit of the glider ; typically gliders come in xs s m l xl sizes . Prompt appropriate use of the brakes is pretty much all a paraglider pilot has to recover normal flight in all the scenarios above . If in doubt pilots should follow the instructions in the gliders manual and ensure they have enough recent flying hours in the conditions they wish to fly that they can do so safely , ie not freeze , recognise the symptoms of a stall for their glider , and react appropriately . Like all aircraft it wo n't be possible to recover from a stall below a certain height , so a pilot should have enough skill not put themselves at risk whilst still having fun ! I imagine hang glider pilots will feel and hear the wind , and be aware of the pressure on the control bar . I 'm guessing their priority will also be to get air flowing over the wing by pulling in on the control bar - but I 'm only guessing as I was a PG pilot not an HG pilot .
Radio frequencies in the USA are assigned by the <URL> , not the FAA . There 's no ' private ' air-to-ground frequency mentioned in the AIM but <URL> does say that the FCC has assigned 122.900 as a MULTICOM frequency for : Activities of a temporary , seasonal , emergency nature or search and rescue , as well as , airports with no tower , FSS , or UNICOM Arguably your fly-by is " temporary activity " , however the definition of MULTICOM is : A mobile service not open to public correspondence used to provide communications essential to conduct the activities being performed by or directed from private aircraft So if your fly-by is " essential " ( and safe ! ) then I guess you could use 122.9 . There are <URL> for requesting temporary air-to-ground frequencies for air shows , but that 's obviously a special case . As for legality , it seems that <URL> to use an aviation handheld radio on the ground : You may only use your hand-held aircraft VHF radio in your aircraft under the terms of your aircraft license . You are required to have a separate Ground Station license to operate your radio on the ground . But because this is more about FCC regulations than FAA ones , I suggest that you ask on <URL> ; they 'll probably know a lot more about how it all works .
" We know that most of the plane accidents and deaths result from the explosion of fuel tanks in the planes " This is a fallacy . Most deaths do n't happen because of explosions , but because of impact damage , fire , and inhalation of toxic fumes ( in no particular order ) . Next to that , many people tend to get killed because they are crushed by fellow passengers during evacuations . And some die on the ground being run over by emergency vehicles or from environmental conditions ( heat , cold , wildlife ) . Ratchet Freak correctly points out why your " solutions " wo n't work ( in fact one of them will make the problems worse ) . And yes , research is being done and has been done . Modern jet fuel has a much higher flame point and vapour pressure than does regular gasoline as a result . Fuel tanks are fitted with baffles and sometimes coolers to keep the fuel liquid so it does n't explode easily . This is in part a result of what happened to TWA800 , one of the very few accidents to be caused by a fuel tank explosion ( and there the explosion was itself only possible due to a combination of rare circumstances and chance events , made worse by maintenance problems with the aircraft ) . The image of aircraft ( and cars , trains , ships , buildings , anything really ) blowing up in a wall of flame at the least trouble is one created and perpetuated by Hollywood and has no reflection in reality whatsoever .
Most helicopter do n't carry radar ; there is no need for it . In civil helicopters radar is typically used for weather detection . In most use cases there is not real need for it because helicopters are usually operating under daytime Visual Flight Rules ( VFR ) and are staying away from clouds . For maritime helicopters that are used in search and rescue operations or off-shore operations on oil-rigs , weather is often installed . The typical location is in a radome in the nose of the helicopter . Examples are the <URL> or <URL> Military helicopters use radar for detecting objects . Depending on the nature of the mission the helicopter is designed for , the radar is underneath ( usually for navy operation , providing sea surface detection capabilities , see for example the navy version of the NH90 ) or on top of the rotor ( to look over obstacles such a hills / trees and provide fire control to their missiles ) . An example is the <URL> .
The brakes are much more effective than anything else , at least for the jet I have experience in ( EMB-145 ) . Our landing performance data typically assumes full braking application , spoilers deployed and no reverse thrust . The airplane will most certainly stop without using reverse thrust , just not as fast . I never tried not using the brakes , and if I were to I would want a light airplane and a very long runway . As Lnafziger pointed out in the comments , the brakes are part of redundant systems so that they are always available . In the EMB-145 , the brakes were serviced by two independent * hydraulic systems . The inboard brakes were on one system while the outboards were on the other for a total of 4 wheels each with big carbon fiber brakes . To address the comments on slick runways , assuming braking action allows an attempt to land in the first place , you have to be careful . With reverse thrust alone you may not be able to maintain the runway centerline and directional control may become difficult through uneven deployment of the reversers and other factors . In this scenario the spoilers are helpful to increase traction and brake effectiveness . In short , if the runway is slick then the only way I 'm attempting a no wheel brake landing is after I delcare an emergency . Finally , to address the question in the title , the wheel brakes are always the primary means of slowing the airplane . * You could transfer fluid between our systems through the parking brake .
No , rocket missiles are recoil-less weapons . When firing a gun , the charge burns inside the chamber and the generated gasses do not escape before the shell leaves the barrel , so the reaction force is transferred to the body of the gun . When firing a rocket missile however there is open space behind he missile and the reaction force only accelerates the generated gasses that are ejected off the back and does not affect the launching platform significantly . This is true for missiles launched from tube ( like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> ) , off a rail like the wing-tip sidewinders or from free fall like most of the heavier air-launched rockets . The lack of recoil is an important advantage of rockets . Bazooka can be fired from shoulder while anti-tank gun with comparable explosive charge is heavy device and needs good support to handle the recoil . On the other hand rockets need more propellant than comparable gun shells , because the generated gasses leaving at high speed carry away a lot of kinetic energy most of which would be available for the shell in a gun .
Generally speaking , FAA does not allow supersonic flights over land except in special restricted military flight corridors . These are called High Altitude Supersonic Corridor ( HASSC ) in the US . For example , the one near <URL> is : <URL> NASA also <URL> about supersonic flights : The F-18s flew in Edwards ' High Altitude Supersonic Corridor at 32,000 to 40,000 feet for the supersonic runs . However , <URL> that FAA 's jurisdiction is only until 60,000 feet , hence above this altitude , there are no speed limits : According to the FAA regulations the controlled airspace extends up to 60,000 feet . Anything flying above may fly at " unlimited speeds . " During <URL> , US Air Force had its <URL> over mainland .
A very simple answer to this question is that the FAA ( and international agencies ) require it to be so to ensure that all passengers are available to hear/see the briefing . The other more robotic/pilot-like answer to this is because it is on the taxi checklist . Haha :)
Thrust vectoring is for flying outside the " normal " envelope ( which is characterized by attached flow ) . Airliners should really never leave this envelope , so they are perfectly fine with regular control surfaces . If you want to add thrust vectoring , it would make most sense if the engines are at the back of the airplane . On most airliners , it is really better to put them on and ahead of the wings , because in this location they help both with flutter damping ( mass ahead of the elastic line helps ) and bending relief . Putting the engine mass right where lift is created is better than carrying stresses all around the airframe , which would be the case with rear-mounted engines . The redundancy point is valid , but it would be more helpful to have redundant control surfaces , and this is exactly what airliners have . At some point , every airplane has to come down for a landing , which requires to throttle the engines . No thrust , no control ! Most extreme case : If one tail surface breaks off , I wonder if thrust vectoring would be up to the job of trimming the aircraft even with cruise thrust . Not only have the raw forces to be sufficient , the reaction time to control setting changes has to be quick enough to suppress oscillations . I am sure , however , that thrust vectoring will certainly not suffice in all flight phases . Thrust vectoring is perfect for situations at high angle of attack where you quickly want to point the nose of your aircraft at your adversary , so you get lock-on first . This is quite different from what an airliner has to do .
I am not a glider pilot , but the principle holds for flying any fixed wing aircraft1 : you should keep your head level with the aircraft , as you described , not the horizon . As your instructor explained , there may come -- or will come -- a time when you are not able to keep your head level with the horizon due to the nature of a particular maneuver or orientation , and that is a practical matter to consider . It is certainly difficult to incline one 's head 60 ° to the side in a steep turn . From my perspective , however , the more important reason is that your frame of reference needs to be the aircraft . You are used to viewing the world with the ground as your frame of reference ; down is down , up is up . As you learn to fly , however , you need to learn a new way to view three dimensional space , or -- more specifically -- the way you move through that space in the aircraft . It might sound cheesy , but you really need to learn to become one with the aircraft and hold the same perspective regardless of the aircraft 's orientation . Now , that being said , as you gain experience and develop your skills , you may come to realize that this perspective shift does not always require that your head remain rigidly perpendicular to your shoulders . Rather , it is a matter of perception which will eventually be independent of how your head is oriented relative to the aircraft . At my first flying job I spent much of my time in maneuvering flight and my head was rarely still -- much less level with the aircraft . I spent a great deal of time with my head on a swivel , looking up and down , side to side , craning forward to clear into a turn , looking back into the cockpit , etc. . At this stage in your training , however , it is probably important to train to keep your head straight within the aircraft ; certainly follow your instructor 's instructions , and you should do well . 1This probably holds true for rotorcraft as well , or any aircraft for that matter . I am only sharing what I am familiar with .
end question
start question
How do airlines handle communication/notification after an accident ?
If an airline has an accident , the chances are you ( as the next set of passengers to board that plane ) will be the least of their concerns - if there 's an incident then it tends to be a case of all hands to action stations to deal with the media , emergency services , families of any potential victims , provide assistance where possible etc. . That said , they do have some procedures they attempt to follow . These vary a little from airline to airline . Most will make an attempt to contact you via text/email if they have it or via the GDS to your travel agent , depending on how far away you are from your departure day/time . It also depends whether you gave contact information to the carrier or your travel agent , whether your travel agent passed it on or , indeed , whether you used a travel agent at all . The next set of passengers rightly tends to be second priority after dealing with the incident , however . Often if you 're on the next flight , therefore , the communication will be a little slow and the first you 'll know about it will be when you arrive at the airport - also remember that there 's a good chance you 're already at the airport , or are on a connecting flight . If you get to the airport , you 'll likely be informed by the staff there who will attempt to get you onto another flight with the same company or another carrier . As an addition from the comment below , if you 're a family member etc who 's signed up to flight alerts from the airline in order to hear about delays/diversions etc ( some airlines provide this as a service to avoid inconvenience and avoid too much waiting traffic at the terminal ) , then you 'll likely be one of the first priorities . The system is normally set up to send automated or manually-triggered pre-written messages , but in an emergency will usually be used to send a manual message to relevant family members etc. . Obviously this only applies if you 've signed up to the service , and only usually applies to the airline 's own service : if you 've signed up with a third party flight tracking service , they likely have no more information than you do .
You would not attempt this . Aircraft are certified to climb with engines inoperative after V1 , they would just climb to a holding altitude and run the checklist . They would rather not attempt to any cruise altitude . Running the checklist you would determine if you are above the maximum landing weight ( MLW ) and decide to burn or if able , to dump fuel . Dumping fuel during the takeoff/rotation phase is not advisable to be honest , as you would leave a contaminated runway behind . Sure , most of the fuel will evaporate , but there will be a contamination nonetheless . I will quote <URL> 's comment shamelessly for another item to consider : According to <URL> a 747 can dump 6000 pounds of fuel per minute . Given that ( from what I found ) it typically carries at least 200,000 pounds , and has an MTOW of over 800,000 pounds , it seems unlikely you 'd dump enough fuel fast enough to make any difference .
If an airline has an accident , the chances are you ( as the next set of passengers to board that plane ) will be the least of their concerns - if there 's an incident then it tends to be a case of all hands to action stations to deal with the media , emergency services , families of any potential victims , provide assistance where possible etc. . That said , they do have some procedures they attempt to follow . These vary a little from airline to airline . Most will make an attempt to contact you via text/email if they have it or via the GDS to your travel agent , depending on how far away you are from your departure day/time . It also depends whether you gave contact information to the carrier or your travel agent , whether your travel agent passed it on or , indeed , whether you used a travel agent at all . The next set of passengers rightly tends to be second priority after dealing with the incident , however . Often if you 're on the next flight , therefore , the communication will be a little slow and the first you 'll know about it will be when you arrive at the airport - also remember that there 's a good chance you 're already at the airport , or are on a connecting flight . If you get to the airport , you 'll likely be informed by the staff there who will attempt to get you onto another flight with the same company or another carrier . As an addition from the comment below , if you 're a family member etc who 's signed up to flight alerts from the airline in order to hear about delays/diversions etc ( some airlines provide this as a service to avoid inconvenience and avoid too much waiting traffic at the terminal ) , then you 'll likely be one of the first priorities . The system is normally set up to send automated or manually-triggered pre-written messages , but in an emergency will usually be used to send a manual message to relevant family members etc. . Obviously this only applies if you 've signed up to the service , and only usually applies to the airline 's own service : if you 've signed up with a third party flight tracking service , they likely have no more information than you do .
<URL> ( <URL> ) Cool room in a cargo terminal . The rabbit arrived fine but there was some sort of mistake and he was locked inside a freezer overnight . Goods that are perishable and human remains awaiting transport , wait in the freezer before being loaded onto flights . Different rooms for cargo handling can be <URL> , they include : Cool rooms Freezer rooms Warm rooms ( for e.g. perishable flowers ) Dangerous goods rooms There are also specialized <URL> 's that come with refrigeration units . <URL> ( <URL> ) Temperature controlled ULD . [ Depending ] on the nature of the goods to be transported , [ ULD 's ] may have built-in refrigeration units .
There are indeed only two ' official ' classifications of aviation incidents , which are defined in <URL> . Accident . An occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft which takes place between the time any person boards the aircraft with the intention of flight until such time as all such persons have disembarked , in which : a ) a person is fatally or seriously injured as a result of being in the aircraft , or direct contact with any part of the aircraft , including parts which have become detached from the aircraft , or direct exposure to jet blast , except when the injuries are from natural causes , self inflicted or inflicted by other persons , or when the injuries are to stowaways hiding outside the areas normally available to the passengers and crew : or b ) the aircraft sustains damage or structural failure which : adversely affects the structural strength , performance or flight characteristics of the aircraft , and would normally require major repair or replacement of the affected component , except for engine failure or damage . when the damage is limited to the engine , its cowlings or accessories : or for damage limited to propellers , wing tips , antennas , tires , brakes , fairings , small dents or puncture holes in the aircraft skin : or c ) the aircraft is missing or is completely inaccessible . Note I. -- For statistical uniformity only , an injury resulting in death within thirty days of the date of the accident is classified as a fatal injury by ICAO . Note 2 . -- An aircraft is considered to be missing when the official search has been terminated and the wreckage has not been located . And then there is Incident . An occurrence , other than an accident , associated with the operation of an aircraft which affects or could affect the safety of operation . They do also define ' serious incident ' , but simply as an incident which was nearly an accident ; which is still an ' incident ' by the definition above .
You should definitely not attempt flight if there is frost on the windows that would affect visibility , or on any of the wings or flight control surfaces . Frost accumulation on such surfaces can reduce the lift generated by your wings , possibly causing a crash on takeoff . <URL> , frost the size of a grain of salt , distributed as sparsely as one per square centimeter over a wing 's upper surface , can destroy enough lift to prevent a plane from taking off . The cheapest solution is to try to re-position the plane on the ramp so that the sunlight has a chance to melt it away . You can also temporarily move the plane into a heated hangar until it melts , or ask the FBO to do so for you . If the forecast is predicting a chance of such conditions the night before , you can usually call the FBO on the night before and ask them to move your plane into their hangar just for the night , in advance of your morning flight . If you 're really anxious to go , you can ask the FBO to apply a heated deicing solution to your plane , but be prepared to pay for it ( it 's priced by the gallon and the amount needed will depend on the size and amount of frost of your plane ) . Not all FBOs will have deicing capabilities , particularly if the region does not commonly experience such conditions .
We should not make statements about any particular airline . Air travel is and remains very safe , due to : Good practices imposed by the regulatory institutions . Feedback of things that went wrong in the past to prevent them from happening in the future . Very mature engineering and technology implementation Lots and lots of experience with reliability numbers over the decades . That being said , proper procedures do need to be followed and it could theoretically be the case that only minimal maintenance is carried out at some airlines , while others are more pro-active and lead the field in safety practices . Think Rainman , and the airline that has never crashed . Safety numbers of all airlines in the developed world are very good . Cheaper airlines must follow the same practices as more expensive airlines . The cheaper tickets are the result of better business practices , not of worse maintenance practices . Edit @Michael Kjörling points out a TV episode about a case of Madrid airport being closed , all traffic lining up for Valencia , and three RyanAir aircraft declare fuel emergency . Plus a LAN Chile declares engine out Mayday . Do n't know if this counts as evidence though , TV programs must find or produce a topic that is sensational enough for transmission . The safety numbers are still on RyanAirs side , their safety record is pretty good .
Generally you do not notify the FAA , you notify the NTSB ( the relevant regulations are in 49CFR , specifically <URL> ) . If you notify the FAA they will contact the NTSB , because the NTSB is the agency charged with investigating aircraft accidents . If you crash in a cornfield somewhere and notify the NTSB they will probably ask the nearest FSDO to send an investigation team ( unless you 're a major airline or a fairly high-profile incident ) . So ultimately it does n't much matter which agency you call , but you should be calling the NTSB . With the administrative stuff out of the way , the reporting requirements are also in that same section of 49CFR . Basically they say : You are required to notify the NTSB " immediately , and by the most expeditious means available " of any aircraft accident , which is defined as : ... an occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft which takes place between the time any person boards the aircraft with the intention of flight and all such persons have disembarked , and in which any person suffers death or serious injury , or in which the aircraft receives substantial damage . You are also required to notify the NTSB ( again , " immediately , and by the most expeditious means available " of any incident ( something that 's not an accident as defined above ) which meets the following criteria : Flight control system malfunction or failure ; Inability of any required flight crewmember to perform normal flight duties as a result of injury or illness ; Failure of any internal turbine engine component that results in the escape of debris other than out the exhaust path ; In-flight fire ; Aircraft collision in flight ; Damage to property , other than the aircraft , estimated to exceed $ 25,000 for repair ( including materials and labor ) or fair market value in the event of total loss , whichever is less . Specific requirements for aircraft with a takeoff weight above 12,500 pounds Release of all or a portion of a propeller blade from an aircraft , excluding release caused solely by ground contact ; Specific requirements for " glass cockpit " displays . Specific requirements for TCAS advisories . Damage to helicopter tail or main rotor blades , including ground damage , that requires major repair or replacement of the blade ( s ) ; Specific requirements for air carrier blunders like landing on the wrong runway . " Immediately and by the most expeditious means available " basically means pick up the telephone and call them : They do n't want you dispatching a letter via Pony Express that 's going to take a week to get to the NTSB 's headquarters while the aircraft is sitting in a field exposed to the elements with evidence literally washing away in the rain .
DeltaLima is correct but there is a little more to the story which he hints at in his link . This topic is known as Freedoms of the Air . There are five official in total , each dictating in what way an airline may operate in a foreign country . What KLM has done is a : Normal stop for those getting off . Technical stop for the onward passengers . Both are less controversial than what would essentially be letting a foreign operator offer flights in your country , which would not help local carriers ( and which would constitute Cabotage as DeltaLima says ) . The technical stop is defined in the second freedom of the air : Second Freedom of the Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State or States to land in its territory for non-traffic purposes ( also known as a Second Freedom Right ) . The Third and Fourth Freedom states that the airline can load and unload passengers in a foreign country for transport to and from the carrier home country : Third Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to put down , in the territory of the first State , traffic coming from the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Third Freedom Right ) . Fourth Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to take on , in the territory of the first State , traffic destined for the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Fourth Freedom Right ) . ( Needless to say , 3 and 4 go hand-in-hand ) Source : <URL> See also this <URL> for easier reading . The other option , aside from not doing it for legal reasons , is that KLM can not justify the trouble and cost of doing it . Setting up more domestic presence ( websites , additional staff , pricing in regard to competition ) in a foreign country is a somewhat complicated business . There would be additional waiting time on the ground when stuff was loaded and paperwork sorted out . Furthermore , I imagine that KLM would like to block the free seats for the complete leg as long as possible ( which would generate the greatest revenue ) , so the actual number of available sub-segments for booking would not be that great .
<URL> ( <URL> ) A320 landing gear approach paths . It 's important to approach the landing gear from the right angle , because an explosion could throw deadly debris at the firefighters . Cooling According to <URL> , water-mist is to be used to cool the brakes . Water , CO2 , or foam , are not to be used . All those cause sudden cooling that can lead to wheel cracks or rim burst . Fire If there is fire , then large amounts of water or water-mist is to be used . Foam is to be used if fuel tanks are at risk . <URL> ( <URL> ) Fire crew attending to 1400 ° C brakes . Not an emergency , but interesting : <URL> ( <URL> ) Upon deplaning back in Pyongyang , we noticed the brakes of the main gear were being cooled down with water . Naturally , this led to a mass gathering downstairs , as everyone wanted to take a photo of this event . We learned that this is actually standard procedure , which seemed legit as I remembered seeing water on the apron after our [ Ilyushin Il-62 ] flight as well . Related : <URL>
Was it anything to be concerned No Should I have brought it to the notice of the airline crew ? Yes , but not because it is a safety issue . Tell them so they can deal with it to give the next passenger a nicer experience . What is happening is no different than a glass of ice water sitting on your kitchen counter . The warmer side of the glass ( the outside ) becomes cooler because of the cold on the inside and it transfers that coolness to the surrounding air . That surrounding air cools enough to cause the moisture it contained to condense into liquid that sticks to your glass . If the glass were cold enough , it would freeze that condensation . The window on the aircraft is that cold so the condensation freezes . There is a mechanism under the window to keep this from happening . It is a jar of <URL> that absorbs all moisture ( dries the air ) in the window area so that there is no moisture to condense in the first place . Often , there is a tiny bit still . As the desiccant absorbs moisture from the air , it retains it . So periodically , it gets saturated to the point it ca n't absorb anymore and the desiccant needs to be changed . Either the desiccant in your window needed to be changed or moist air is bypassing the desiccant on its way to the inside surface of the window . Normally there is a seal between the outside window and that thin plastic window you can touch and the only way for air to get in or out of that inter-window area is through the desiccant . Your window may have a broken seal allowing moist air to bypass the desiccant . Either way , it is a system designed only to keep the window from forming ice so the passengers can look out the window , it has no safety or structural consequences .
The practice of naming aircraft probably comes from the days of the flying boat , and the naval tradition of naming ships - <URL> had many named aircraft , and <URL> . Other airlines of the period had similar naming practices ( I 'm not sure who started it , but Pan Am 's fleet was well known for it ) . As a marketing tool telling folks they 're flying on " Clipper Emerald Isle from New York to Dublin " may have been more attractive to passengers than " Pan Am Flight 12345 " or N880PA . Particularly before the commoditization of air travel , when flying was still a new and novel form of transportation , having a connection back to familiar " sailing " metaphors may have helped get passengers on board and could help differentiate your service from another airline . Modern airlines do n't seem to push their aircraft naming as much as historic carriers did , but <URL> - in fact Lufthansa paints their plane names onto the fuselage , though I 'm not sure if they announce them to passengers . A skilled marketing department could build a brand around ship names , but I 'm not aware of any airline doing so today .
In the US , yes . Kerosene [ for use in aviation ] is taxed at $ 0.244 per gallon unless a reduced rate applies . These taxes mainly fund airport and Air Traffic Control operations by the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) , of which commercial aviation is the biggest user ( <URL> ) . More information from <URL> . In the UK , it <URL> on the user . Aviation turbine fuel used for private pleasure flying : # 0.5795 per litre Aviation gasoline ( Avgas ) : # 0.3770 per litre Air transport <URL> . Furthermore : Article 24 of the [ 1944 Convention of International Civil Aviation ] requires all contracting states not to charge duty on aviation fuel already on board any aircraft that has arrived in their territory from another contracting state . Further to this , the exemption of airlines from national taxes and customs duties on a range of aviation-related goods , including parts , stores and fuel is a standard element of the network of bilateral ' Air Service Agreements ' ( ASAs ) between individual countries .
This depends on what exactly you want the aircraft to do : Immediately depart the hold and fly directly to another fix : N1234 cleared to ' clearance limit ' via direct ' fix ' and then as previously filed . Immediately depart the hold and fly an assigned heading : N1234 Cleared to ' clearance limit ' via radar vectors . Fly heading ' heading ' . Proceed to another fix after passing the holding point inbound : N1234 After ' holding fix ' , cleared to ' clearance limit ' via direct ' fix ' and then as previously filed . Fly the published approach after passing the holding point inbound : N1234 Maintain ' altitude ' until ' holding fix ' , cleared ' approach name ' . Altitude Lastly , add the altitude to any of the above clearances if it is different than the current altitude by adding a climb/descend and maintain ' altitude ' clearance .
In addition to repaints , aircraft are also periodically washed and treated to maintain the paint quality and reduce the build up of dust/grime/salt and other particulates . There are automated systems installed at some airports to clean airplanes as they taxi over these areas . Think of it as a drive through car wash , but for airplanes . The very first applications of these were actually for the US Navy because they have a requirement to wash aircraft due to their proximity to seawater . A company called tammermatic developed a system for the navy to clean airplanes directly on the field using a set of powerful jets . Images from the <URL> <URL> <URL> Then there is the <URL> ( PDF brochure ) , developed by PMW ( a company that makes concrete pumps ) to wash aircraft automatically . It was first used by Lufthansa in 1997 ( image cc : ARNE DEDERT / AFP ) : <URL>
In flying you never trust your inner ear because it is easily deceived , you ca n't block out the inner ear inputs , you simply learn to ignore them in favor of your eyesight . When you first learn to fly it is in visual meteorological conditions using the horizon as a reference , then in instrument conditions ( if you choose to get an instrument rating ) using your instruments such as the <URL> and the <URL> .
Most airplanes have a POH ( Pilot Operating Handbook ) with a table on aircraft distances . <URL> .
The total mass of a light helicopter is about 1000 kg ( depending on type and actual payload , of course ) . The 200 pound guy adds about 10 % to the total mass ( and weight ) . The skids are relatively close to the centre of gravity ( COG ) . Immediate impact Kinetic energy In terms of mechanics , the jumping man will have a mostly <URL> with the helicopter , and he will transfer both , kinetic energy and impulse accordingly . One may simply choose the helicopter as reference coordinate system to calculate the resulting change of ( vertical ) speed for the helicopter : $ $ \ Delta v _ \ rm { H } = \ frac { m _ \ rm { G } \ Delta v _ \ rm { G } } { m _ \ rm { H } + m _ \ rm { G } } = \ frac { 1 } { 11 } \ Delta v _ \ rm { G } \ \ \ \ \ \ ( m _ \ rm { H } = 1000 \ rm { \ , kg } , \ m _ \ rm { G } = 100 \ rm { \ , kg } ) $ $ In the movie , the jumping man will just make it . The relative speed will be close to zero , and divided by 11 will be even closer to zero . If he had a significant speed relative to the skid , he would not be able to hold himself . The transfer of kinetic energy is negligible for the stability of the helicopter . Added weight The total weight of the aircraft increases by 10 % . This sudden change creates a jolt which is clearly perceptible inside the helicopter , also suddenly changing the vertical acceleration . The ( vertical ) speed is the mathematical integral of the ( vertical ) acceleration . The speed will steadily change . The same holds true for the ( vertical ) position of the aircraft , which is the mathematical integral of the ( vertical ) speed . In other words , the inertia of the bigger mass will prevent sudden change of vertical speed . For the pilot , this 10 % disturbance will be very obvious , and he needs to counteract . ( Note that there was a related question recently : <URL> ) Imbalance The imbalance caused by the guy hanging somewhere else than under the COG creates a torque . This torque creates an angular acceleration . This angular acceleration integrates to angular speed , which integrates to roll and pitch respectively . While the angular acceleration starts suddenly , the angular speed can only change steadily . The helicopter will not loose its attitude in a fraction of a second , like it happens in Hollywood movies . Countermeasure The pilot will use the Collective control to counter the added weight , and the Cyclic control to counter roll and pitch . Provided that the pilot reacts timely enough , it should be possible to stabilize the helicopter . 100 kg additional mass should not prevent the helicopter from climbing , unless it was already overloaded and without safety margins before the 200 pound guy arrived . More critical is the torque created by the offset load and the resulting COG shift . I am not aware of the roll and pitch performance of small helicopters , but I believe that they are able to fly with somebody standing or hanging on a skid . Asymmetric load of this magnitude will likely impact stability and manoeuvrability , but will not necessarily cause a crash . If the fearless 200 pound guy instead would jump and hold to the tail skid , the additional weight would be much further from the COG , and the outcome probably be disastrous . Safety This does not mean that it is safe to continue the flight with the 200 pound guy hanging anywhere on one skid . Pilots always need to verify if the amount and distribution of the load is within the performance limits of their aircraft . See <URL> for some explanation and example ( note Figures 2-5 , 2-6 , and 2-7 ) . Depending on the helicopter performance and the load distribution before the guy jumps , the new distribution may be within the specified safe longitudinal and lateral COG envelopes , or not . <URL>
No . Federal law prohibits the NTSB from releasing any CVR recordings , and the NTSB notes that they are <URL> The same law requires them to release a transcript , like the ones seen in accident reports , if the transcript is relevant to the accident or incident . See <URL> : ( 1 ) The Board may not disclose publicly any part of a cockpit voice or video recorder recording or transcript of oral communications by and between flight crew members and ground stations related to an accident or incident investigated by the Board . However , the Board shall make public any part of a transcript or any written depiction of visual information the Board decides is relevant to the accident or incident -- ( A ) if the Board holds a public hearing on the accident or incident , at the time of the hearing ; or ( B ) if the Board does not hold a public hearing , at the time a majority of the other factual reports on the accident or incident are placed in the public docket .
Essentially they plan on some fraction of the fleet undergoing some sort of maintenance check at any one time , so they build their flying schedule around the remaining fraction . And then there is some amount of flex due to things needing unscheduled maintenance or coming out of maintenance early . What makes the task easier is the fact that maintenance needs can be forecast fairly far in advance , and so the schedules can be built around a knowledge of how many aircraft are likely to be available . As an illustration ( not necessarily representative of any particular airline 's actual numbers ) , let 's say you have a fleet of 200 aircraft , and you know that on average each aircraft will be down for two 2-week heavy maintenance checks each year . That works out to essentially one month out of 12 , each aircraft is down , or a little under 10 % of the time . Add in a little time for shorter maintenance visits ( but still longer than an overnight ) , plus an allowance for the fact that some aircraft just need unscheduled work , and the maintenance planners may end up telling you to plan on 175 aircraft available each day . So that 's what you build your schedule around . Now let 's say that one aircraft takes a birdstrike &amp; an engine needs to be changed . That is now a hole in the schedule . It can be covered by cancelling a flight ( undesirable , but always an option ) . If an aircraft is finished with maintenance ahead of schedule ( say it was scheduled down all day for some work , but the work is actually done by noon ) , that aircraft may be able to be put into service . Perhaps it 's possible to delay some sort of minor maintenance a day ( not a heavy check , but something quicker ) and essentially create one aircraft-day of capacity , and push the check off to a weekend day when the schedule uses fewer aircraft . Or maybe the schedule was built with one or two aircraft available as spares that day . Depending on a variety of factors , spares may or may not be available , or even deliberately built into the schedule at all . Having an A-380 sitting around unused all day is an EXPENSIVE insurance policy against something unforeseen happening , but cancelling a flight on something that big is an expensive event when it happens ! If you operate all out of one giant hub and you know that your fleet of 500 aircraft ( flying 450 lines every day ) is likely to have 2-4 aircraft every day go to the hanger for unexpected maintenance , it 's probably a good financial decision to allocate two or three of those lines as dedicated spares . If your aircraft operate a point-to-point schedule , it 's harder ( or unfeasible ) to keep a spare aircraft at every airport you serve , " just in case " something happens to break there . There are complicated decisions that airlines will continuously evaluate to find what balance works best for their particular operation . In some cases , it may be possible to substitute an aircraft from a different fleet for a broken jet ... an MD80 goes to the hanger , and a 737 with a reserve crew flies the rest of the day that the MD80 would have flown . Or maybe a 757 broke , and the decision is to use the 737 to cover the flight , and re-accommodate the extra passengers that the 757 could hold that the 737 now ca n't . That 's a tactical decision that the airline 's operations center will make , considering the availability of both aircraft and crews , as well as the passenger loads . ( They also may pull a " healthy " 757 off of its less full schedule to fly in place of the broke 757 , use a 737 that was n't going to be very full to cover that 757 's route , put an RJ on the 737 's route that day , and cancel the RJ 's flights " due to maintenance . " And if that inconveniences 4 flights of 40-50 people who mostly just get delayed a few hours , that 's probably a better plan than stranding two flights of 200 people who 'd otherwise have no way to get where they 're going until tomorrow or later . )
end question
start question
Are there any best practices for transitioning from paper logbooks to electronic logbooks ?
Logbooks are an interesting blend of personal and professional recordkeeping . The FAA does n't really make a big deal about what method you use to log your flight time , just as long as you log all flight time which you 're going to later use to justify currency or a new certificate . This means that you can do whatever works best for you , as long as you ( and your future employers ) are happy with it . When I transitioned to <URL> , I decided to spend a few weeks worth of evenings and just enter everything , line by line . I did this because I had a lot of spare time , and because from now on I 've got a pristine digital copy of everything , which is a nice feeling . However , this is certainly not necessary , and there is no reason why you could n't summarize your totals with one or a few line items . In fact , Safelog provides a function to do exactly that : you create a pseudo-aircraft type which is defined as " summarizes several aircraft " . You can get as coarse ( 1,302 hours in airplanes ) or as fine ( 389 hours in blue C-172M 's with the funny starter that sounds like you just dropped a shot glass in a garbage disposal ) as you want . I would say that whatever you choose to do , just be sure that you enter it using a format which will be compatible when you switch from Android to iPad . It 's bad enough to do it once , why put yourself through the hassle of doing it twice ?
The FAA released a 70 page report back in 2003 titled <URL> which basically says that the overall accident rate of the two types of airplanes are almost the same . They found that the " available safety " of Technically Advanced Aircraft ( TAA ) is greater than non-TAA aircraft , however in emergency situations pilots often were not aware of the resources available . To offset this , they recommend ( among other things ) more training for pilots before flying TAA 's so that they actually have the safety related aspects available to them . Here were their official findings : Team Findings : The safety problems found in the accidents studied by the Team are typical of problems that occurred after previous introductions of new aircraft technology and all also reflect typical GA pilot judgment errors found in analysis of non-TAA accidents Previous safety problems similar to those identified in this Study have been remedied through a combination of improved training and , in the case of new aircraft capabilities , pilot screening ( i.e. , additional insurance company requirements of pilot experience ) . The predominant TAA-system-specific finding is that the steps required to call up information and program an approach in IFR-certified GPS navigators are numerous , and during high workload situations they can distract from the primary pilot duty of flying the aircraft . MFDs in the accident aircraft did not appear to present a complexity problem . The Team also believes that PFDs , while not installed in any of the accident aircraft and just now becoming available in TAAs , similarly are not likely to present a complexity problem . TAAs provide increased " available safety " , i.e. , a potential for increased safety . However , to actually obtain this available safety , pilots must receive additional training in the specific TAA systems in their aircraft that will enable them to exploit the opportunities and operate within the limitations inherent in their TAA systems . The template for securing this increased safety exists from the experiences with previous new technology introductions -- the current aircraft model-specific training and insurance requirements applicable to high-performance single and multi engine small airplanes . However , the existing training infrastructure currently is not able to provide the needed training in TAAs . Effective and feasible interventions have been identified , mostly recommending improvements in training , and effective implementation mechanisms for the recommended interventions exist . Therefore , TAA safety problems can be addressed , and the additional available safety of TAAs to address traditional causes of GA accidents can be realized as well . APOA has a nice <URL> .
The <URL> was designed to provide a standard model of data exchange for things like : Aerodrome/Heliport including movement areas , services , facilities , etc. . Airspace structures Organisations and units , including services Points and Navaids Procedures Routes Flying restrictions The <URL> on the AIXM site is pretty responsive but relatively quiet . The data available through AIXM seems to be mostly European based but the system was not designed to be restricted to EU .
Twin enigned aircrafts without counter-rotating propellers A great many twins do n't have counter-rotating props : One such aircraft is the BeechCraft Baron 58 , as seen in <URL> . Another aircraft I can think of is the King Air 350 . It is not any more or less common to have one or the other . Contra-rotating propellers Another interesting solution to the P-factor ( prop pulling towards one direction ) , especially on single engine aircraft is contra-rotating props , two propellers on the same shaft that spin in opposite directions . This is mainly for single engine racer aircraft , but there are multi-engine aircraft known to have it , such as the Soviet Tu-95 Bear bomber . The pic shown here is a Spitfire Mk . XIV : A better explanation of the P-factor P-factor is the term for asymmetric propeller loading , that causes the airplane to yaw to the left when at high angles of attack . Assuming a clockwise rotating propeller it is caused by the descending right side of the propeller ( as seen from the rear ) having a higher angle of attack relative to the oncoming air , and thus generating a higher air flow and thrust than the ascending blade on the left side , which at the other hand will generate less airflow and thrust . This will move the propellers aerodynamic centre to the right of the planes centreline , thus inducing an increasing yaw moment to the left with increasing angle of attack or increasing power . With increasing airspeed and decreasing angle of attack less right rudder will be required to maintain coordinated flight .
Tip jet rotors are still being developed , none of them are ramjet powered as far as I know . The <URL> is tip rocket powered , while the <URL> uses air jets powered by a conventional engine . Ramjet technology has not improved , so the cases for using them on rotor tips has not changes . They are still too heavy , thirsty and noisy .
According to the <URL> , The air plane can structurally accommodate pilots or passengers weighing up to 250 lbs . Of course , this is subject to the maximum allowable takeoff weight . The manual also gives the forward and aft cg limits ( in page 30 ) . In case of very light pilots , the aft cg limit may be exceeded and it may be required to carry ballast for bringing the cg within limits .
Aviation is very energy-hungry . While hydrogen is quite efficient in terms of energy per mass ( <URL> ) , it is awful in terms of energy per volume . Aircraft today use their wings for fuel storage , which helps to reduce bending loads and uses a volume unsuitable to transport payload . This will not work for hydrogen . The biggest problem is <URL> , and none of the solutions is really attractive : Kryogenic : Storing the hydrogen at a temperature where it is liquid ( below 20 ° K ) greatly reduces volume demands , but now you need to add insulation , and even then the energy per volume is only a quarter compared to hydrocarbons . This is used in rockets , because they can rely on extensive ground support before launch and use up the stuff in a few minutes . Airliners , however , need to store their fuel over tens of hours , so their hydrogen tanks will be much heavier and bulkier than those of rockets . Compressed : This avoids the energy input for liquefaction , but now you need a strong and heavy pressure vessel . Current <URL> uses up to 700 bar pressure , but even then the volume demand is higher than that of kerosene for the same energy content . Hydrides : Some metals like magnesium or <URL> can bind hydrogen and release it when heated . However , even in the most efficient compounds like sodium tetrahydroaluminate , only 7.4 % of mass is useable hydrogen , making this exquisitely unsuitable for mass-critical applications like aviation . Currently a <URL> looks the most attractive and has been tested widely . The first ( partially ) hydrogen powered aircraft was the LZ-127 Zeppelin which used a mixture of gasses of equal mass per volume as air ( <URL> ) to power its engines . Tupolev designed and flew the <URL> , the first hydrogen-powered heavier-than-air aircraft , in 1988 . The results showed that the principle worked , but could not compete with kerosene . Currently , <URL> , but none with the hope of widespread application - as it stands , binding hydrogen chemically to carbon will still give the best way of storage ( liquid and unpressurized ) for aviation . Hydrogen becomes the best source of energy only when combustion speed is critical , such as in supersonic combustion ramjets ( <URL> ) .
The obvious answer you mentioned should be reiterated : Avoid thunderstorms whenever possible ! Just because there are " best penetrating altitudes " does n't change the fact that thunderstorms are extremely hazardous to aircraft and should be avoided in the first place . With that said , the FAA 's <URL> mentions that , if unable to avoid penetrating a thunderstorm : To avoid the most critical icing , establish a penetration altitude below the freezing level or above the level of -15 ºC . This is to help minimize rapid accumulation of clear ice : Supercooled water freezes on impact with an aircraft . Clear icing can occur at any altitude above the freezing level but at high levels , icing from smaller droplets may be rime or mixed rime and clear . The abundance of large , supercooled water droplets makes clear icing very rapid between 0ºC and -15 ºC , and encounters can be frequent in a cluster of cells . Thunderstorm icing can be extremely hazardous . Another point to mention is that , regardless of there being a recommended " penetration altitude , " it is important to maintain a constant attitude , not altitude : It is almost impossible to hold a constant altitude in a thunderstorm , and maneuvering in an attempt to do so greatly increases stress on the aircraft . Stresses are least if the aircraft is held in a constant attitude . But again , emphasizing the dangers of thunderstorms , the circular states : Never regard any thunderstorm lightly , even when radar observers report the echoes are of light intensity . Avoiding thunderstorms is the best policy . and Weather recognizable as a thunderstorm should be considered hazardous , as penetration of any thunderstorm can lead to an aircraft accident and fatalities to those on board .
There 's one I can think of immediately , and that 's the granddaddy of them all , the <URL> . The X-1 's control system was unassisted and it had no hydraulic system . The only part of the control system that was assisted was the horizontal stabilizer , which was <URL> . I think most of the early supersonic test airplanes were mechanically operated .
I am currently developing a plugin for virtual airlines to pull live data , and I use the FlightAware 's API which is really good in my opinion . With a little bit of php magic you can get all the schedules for your airlines for free ( if you sign up for the free account ) or you can pay to get access to the getAirlineSchedule query which just basically does what it says . <URL> There is the website if you 're interested , to get access to the free area , sign up and click the ' get prices ' area and the very left option should be the free pack ;) If you 're interested in my code which I am developing , you can check it out at my github ; <URL> Good luck ;) EDIT : You get the data in the form of json , so you can pull strings of data from there :)
In normal operations there are regulations against this sort of thing ( as Dave has said ) . But there have been a few emergencies where the First Office or the Captain have become incapacitated ( due to medical emergencies ) , and the remaining pilot has declined to ask if there is another pilot on board to help fly the plane . Here is an example from 2011 of a <URL> ** , I have heard of others but ca n't find references . So , admittedly , that may be the only actual occurrence . So , to finally answer your questions : Very rarely , in an emergency situation , there can be a single pilot on a commercial airliner . Granted , there were passengers on board , so I 'm not sure it fits your narrow definition of " solo " , but it 's about as close as it 's going to get . For completeness ( though I do n't think it counts ) , there have been a few instances of a single pilot stealing a commercial jetliner . For example <URL> . There were actually two people involved , one was a mechanic , the other had a private pilots license ( hence the pilot was " soloing " ) . The aircraft has not been seen since ... so it 's assumed it ended badly , and , for the record , it 's also assumed the pilot was coerced ( if indeed he was even flying the plane ) . There are a couple more incidents , namely this <URL> , which was stolen by a mechanic , circled for an hour , then crashed . And also this <URL> , which was actually stolen by a Captain form Air Botswana . He circled the airport for a couple of hours demanding to speak to everyone from his girlfriend , to his boss to the President of Botswana . They were actually arranging to have him speak with the president when he crashed his plane into two other Air Botswana ATR-42-320s that were parked on the ground . He was the only one killed . Again , though , I 'm not sure if these fit the criteria you are looking for . But in that last one , at very least , he was the only person on board the aircraft , it was a commercial aircraft and he was in fact a Captain . But to say all this an irregularity would be an extreme understatement ... ** For clarification : The reason I state this is the only example I could find is because it 's the only one where I could find a report where it was specifically stated the remaining pilot had no help . To quote from the report : Once the initial Cabin Crew assistance was complete , the Captain indicated that he did not need assistance in operating the aircraft , although this was suggested in the operator 's procedures for pilot incapacitation . The First Officer took no further part in the operation of the aircraft . No inquiries as to the possible presence on board the aircraft of either medically trained personnel or qualified pilots were made . All other examples I saw either specifically stated that a new co-pilot was found , or they skipped that detail entirely . All of that being said , I somehow doubt this is the only case , it 's just the only one I could explicitly verify .
There are quite a few 727 that actually had nose wheel braking , however they utilized it only for maximum braking power . ( Also they were proven to be ineffective and unreliable , so a service bulletin was written to remove the system ) . Saab Gripens use nose wheel brakes to stop as well , the main gear sits farther aft than most planes , so there is quite a bit of weight on the nose gear , which makes it effective for stopping .
No matter which kind of engine , you need some way to supply the engine with energy and you need some way to store that energy until you need it in flight . Short of going nuclear ( and there are some nontrivial engineering problems involved in designing a halfway safe nuclear reactor that you can put on a plane and keep it lightweight enough that flying it is n't pointless ) , chemical fuels for burning have the best available ratios of weight to energy stored . This is particularly important for aviation because more weight means more induced drag which means more thrust needed . Joule for joule , the efficiency of fuel-burning engines is not great , but the superior energy density of hydrocarbon fuel more than makes up for that and allows them to supply more useful thrust per kilogram of energy storage lifted than either batteries ( low losses , but very heavy ) or fuel cells ( medium losses , but require small-molecule fuel such as hydrogen or methane that still have markedly worse energy densities than kerosene ) . Since you speak about " exhaust gases " in the question , note that current aircraft derive at most a small fraction of their thrust from ejecting exhaust gases . Propeller planes do n't generally make use of the exhaust at all , and " jet " engines are practically always high-bypass turbofan engines where most of the energy from the combustion goes to drive the fan that blows intake air backwards without burning anything in it .
According to <URL> they used to be very customizable , but not very much interchangeable at least to the point that no one bothered to change them on second-hand aircraft . They are reducing it because it only causes confusion . Aircraft change owners and pilots change employers and it 's most useful if all aircraft of the same type have the same cockpit layout . As far as 787 goes , it has very similar flight deck to 777 , always , to the point it has <URL> .
What are the requirements for radio systems in aircraft ? Generally there are n't any , at least as far as " being required to have radios " . It is perfectly legal to fly around in most of the United States in a Piper Cub with no radios of any kind . Indeed , unless it 's been retrofitted with one a Piper Cub would have no electrical system at all - so you would only be able to fly under " daytime VFR conditions " in airspace not requiring communication with air traffic control ( absent special arrangements ) . If you elect to fly an aircraft equipped with radios ( as most of us do ) there are specific requirements those radios must meet , which are described in <URL> . This is not a comprehensive list , but : For Communication radios these are outlined in <URL> and TSO C-169a . Transponders must meet specific TSO performance criteria per <URL> Navigation Radios ( VOR/ILS/ADF ) must meet specific TSO performance criteria if used under instrument flight rules . The TSO number for these escape me at the moment but I 'm sure you can look them up . GPS systems must meet TSO C145c / TSO C146c requirements ( if used for IFR navigation ) . The Emergency Locator Transmitter ( ELT ) must meet specific TSO criteria . The requirements obviously vary based on the type of radio , and typically reference other industry standards ( for example <URL> for VHF communication radios sends you over to RTCA/DO -186 B for the actual performance criteria ) .
At least in the US there are plenty of ways to get a flight briefing . My usual sources of pre-flight information are , roughly in order : <URL> No kidding , if I 'm planning a long/multi-day trip I 'll start looking at the long-range forecasts 10 days before my flight using The Weather Channel 's iPhone app or their website . As far as weather information goes it 's pretty decent ( which means " frequently wrong up until 24 hours before go-time , but still worth paying attention to " ) . Charts ( <URL> or <URL> ) , <URL> , and <URL> If you 're planning more than a hop around the local pattern you should familiarize yourself with the airspace you 'll be passing through , landmarks ( and obstacles ) on the ground , and navaid / airport frequencies . Charts and other FAA publications provide a great way to do that , and you can also usually pick up a phone and call the airport you 're flying to for additional information . All of this documentation is available in a variety of forms - Paper , electronic downloads direct from the FAA ( as linked above ) , or as part of flight-planning software like Foreflight , Garmin Pilot , WingX Pro , etc. . <URL> A few days before a planned flight it 's worth reading the forecaster 's discussion to see how confident the people predicting the weather are about their guesses . This is also something you should check the day of departure if there 's any uncertainty about the weather . Electronic briefing tools ( <URL> / <URL> / Foreflight/etc . ) About 24 hours out you can get official briefings from DUAT/DUATS/Foreflight and a bunch of other flight planning tools . Get them and learn to read them . Electronic briefings from many of these tools are recorded and count as an " official briefing " - a record is made that you requested and received the information . You are responsible for understanding all the information that just got dumped in your lap however , and that 's a huge responsibility , especially for a student pilot ! <URL> ( 1-800-WX-BRIEF ) The day of departure your final briefing should be a phone call to flight service to speak with an actual briefer to review your flight . If you can sit down and have your electronic briefing from # 3 in front of you it 's very helpful because you can follow along with the briefer to be sure you did n't miss anything . Calls to Flight Service are recorded and count as an official briefing . If you 're unclear on anything you 're being told you can ask for clarification . Of all the tools available I personally think the best one is calling flight service and speaking to a briefer . <URL> I 'd say they 're skipping out on a critical bit of your training , and you owe it to yourself to pick up the phone and . This is your big chance to talk to a live human being and ask any questions - big ones that I always ask are " Are there any TFRs along my route of flight ? " , and if I 'm anywhere near a restricted area I 'll check its status ( " Is R-12345 active ? " ) .
Yes , there are several systems . The simplest are REALLY BIG WINDOWS ( and binoculars ) : <URL> When the entire wall in front of you is an big expanse of glass looking out over the runway there 's a good chance you 'll notice something trying to roll onto the runway . Many runway incursions are detected visually . Really big windows do n't work as well when you have multiple runways and larger airport complexes though , so we have some technological solutions too . The most common is Automated Surface Detection Equipment ( ASDE ) , the one being deployed today is <URL> . This is basically " radar on the ground " which interrogates aircraft transponders and shows the controllers which aircraft are where on the airport surface : <URL> There are also systems on the ground designed to prevent incursions , but those are mainly for use by pilots . These include <URL> , <URL> ( which include " stop bars " that light up on hold-short lines ) , and " runway guard lights " ( which may be mounted either in the pavement or <URL> ) . Many of these systems can be controlled from the tower , either by automatic systems or manually by the controllers .
The Soviet <URL> ( and also the <URL> ) had an automatic ejection seat . The aircraft had two smaller engines for VTOL . If one of them failed , the seat ejected automatically once the aircraft rolled past 60 $ ^ \ circ $ . From <URL> : The pilot sat on a K-36VM ejection seat , with the ejection performed automatically in takeoff or landing excursions using an " SK-EM " system . The SK-EM system was automatically engaged after the aircraft rose a few meters from the deck ; it could be turned off manually , or would turn itself off if the vectored-thrust nozzles were more than 67 degrees to the vertical . These ejection seats were first developed for <URL> ( though never installed on them ) . The Yak - 36 had two side-by-engines , the failure of any one of which could flip the aircraft - this led to the development of an automatic ejection system that would activate aircraft seemed to be departing from safe vertical-flight parameters . According to <URL> , 18 automatic ejections have been recorded in Yak-38s .
There is a descent requirement , but it 's perhaps not in the way you imagine as it has to do with oxygen supply . <URL> subpart K states : ( b ) Crewmembers . When operating at flight altitudes above 10,000 feet , the certificate holder shall supply enough oxygen to comply with § 121.329 , but not less than a two-hour supply for each flight crewmember on flight deck duty . The required two hours supply is that quantity of oxygen necessary for a constant rate of descent from the airplane 's maximum certificated operating altitude to 10,000 feet in ten minutes and followed by 110 minutes at 10,000 feet . The oxygen required in the event of cabin pressurization failure by § 121.337 may be included in determining the supply required for flight crewmembers on flight deck duty . This specifies that a turbine aircraft must be able to descend from it 's maximum certificated altitude to 10,000 ft in 10 minutes or less . This means the maximum descent speed is variable to maximum certificated altitude , so if an aircraft 's ceiling is 42000ft it must be able to descend at least 3200fpm , it it 's 25000ft then 1500fpm . As for how that 's done I do n't think the regulations say , it 's up to the manufacturers to develop aircraft that can meet the requirement .
For go-around , several things have to be done in the moment the decision is taken : Apply full power ( obviously ) , disconnect autopilot glide-slope mode , disarm spoilers and retract them if they are extended , disarm autobrakes and in some aircraft reduce flaps . Modern airliners , and some smaller aircraft , have a method for doing all of these at once via the <URL> . On Airbus aircraft it is done by just advancing the thrust levers to the TO/GA ( full power ) position , but on Boeing aircraft and many other types it is a separate button on or near the thrust levers . So if the crew " apparently decided to undertake this procedure manually " it means they moved the thrust levers forward and started changing the other things . And probably missed one of them . Notes : I am not sure whether lateral mode remains under automatic control or not and it probably depends on aircraft as some can connect autopilot to only roll or only pitch and others do n't . Pitch control is manual immediately after go-around in either case . The last flap setting usually adds a lot of drag and a little lift . In some types the drag is too large and the flaps have to be retracted to the last usable position . On other aircraft they can be used in any position and have to be left were they were to avoid loosing lift .
end question
start question
Why has the range of movement of the control surfaces changed over the past year ?
We found the problem . The control stops are under the seat and are made of plywood . It looks like at some point in the past someone had added a small layer of plywood to reduce the control deflections but that over time the glue had deteriorated or the wood had swollen , so that there was now too much stop . Removing the extra ply and sanding the glue back to the wood fixed the problem .
The Suntan project needed all fuselage space to hold three tanks for liquid hydrogen , so the engines had to be placed somewhere else . Placing them near the fuselage would put them in the range of the fuselage 's shock waves . Putting them out on the wing would help with wing bending relief and ensure a clean intake flow . Once they are so far out , you can as well put them on the wingtips , so that they do not cause a pitch-up moment . On the SR-71 , the engines were also placed outside the fuselage and into the wing 's plane , much for the same reasons . Keeping the intake flow uniform is paramount for the undisturbed operation of supersonic intakes , and I assume that Kelly Johnson wanted to make sure that the engines would not suffer an unstart when flying reconnaissance missions over hostile territory . With the little experience in supersonic flight in 1955 it was prudent to avoid built-in pitching moments - after all , the supersonic L/D likely was in the single digits , so an out-of-plane engine placement would had produced more moment than on subsonic aircraft . Hydrogen was selected to achieve the highest possible flight altitude , so the aircraft would be safe from surface-to-air missiles for as long as possible . I initially thought that the wingtip location would enable to cool the hot wing structure by heating up the hydrogen on its way to the engine , but heating was planned to be done with bleed air in a special heat exchanger . Quoting <URL> : The CL-400 design divided the hydrogen tankage into three sections ; the forward tank had a capacity of 67 000 liters ; aft , 54 000 ; and center ( sump ) , 15 000 . The two main tanks were kept at 2.3 atmospheres pressure and the sump tank slightly lower for fuel transfer . In the sump was a booster pump , built by Pesco Products , that supplied liquid hydrogen to the engines at a pressure of 4.4 atmospheres . The engines were mounted at the wing tips , which meant that the liquid hydrogen had to pass through a hot wing with surface temperatures up to 436 K . The design provided a vacuum-jacketed , insulated line for this purpose . Regarding the perceived danger of using hydrogen , <URL> says : Tests were devised in which tanks containing liquid hydrogen under pressure were ruptured . In many cases , the hydrogen quickly escaped without ignition . The experimenters then provided a rocket squib ( a small powder charge ) to ignite the escaping , hydrogen . The resulting fireball quickly dissipated because of the rapid flame speed of hydrogen and its low density . Containers of hydrogen and gasoline were placed side by side and ruptured . When the hydrogen can was ruptured and ignited , the flame quickly dissipated - , but when the same thing was done with gasoline , the gasoline and flame stayed near the container and did much more damage . The gasoline fire was an order of magnitude more severe than the hydrogen fire . The experimenters tried to induce hydrogen to explode , with limited success . In 61 attempts , only two explosions occurred and in both , they had to mix oxygen with the hydrogen . Their largest explosion was produced by mixing a half liter of liquid oxygen with a similar volume of liquid hydrogen . Johnson and Rich were convinced that , with proper care , liquid hydrogen could be handled quite safely and was a practical fuel-a conclusion that was amply verified by the space program in the 1960s . At the time , however , Johnson and Rich filmed their fire and explosion experiments to convince doubters . When work on Suntan started , liquid hydrogen was a laboratory curiosity . Preparing the infrastructure needed for operating the CL-400 , the Suntan project led to the building of large-scale liquid hydrogen plants . Their availability paved the way for the cryogenic rockets of the Apollo program ! Interestingly , a similar engine location was selected by the Russian design bureaus <URL> and <URL> supersonic bomber in the mid-50s . It was started after news of the US Weapon System 110 ( which later led to the XB-70 ) reached Russia and was similarly cancelled after two prototypes had been built and only one aircraft had flown . <URL> M-50 during display in 1961 at Tushino airshow ( picture <URL> ) . Note the similarity of the Mig-21 and M-50 planform - both originated from the same work done at <URL> . Placing the outer engines below the wing would had caused ground contact on rotation . Speaking of rotation : The M-50 had two central gears and the bomb bay between them , and the main gear had to be placed so far aft that the M-50 could not be rotated the usual way with the elevator . So the engineers devised what they called the " galloping bicycle " . When the aircraft reached 300 km/h , the forward gear rapidly extended to rotate it to 10 ° . Placing the outer engines B-58-like below the wing would had required an even longer gear .
I ca n't speak directly to the ICON A5 as I neither own nor fly one , but for every aircraft I 'm familiar with the manufacturer 's " book numbers " are generous theoretical values - for example , they typically assume flying perfectly straight-and-level in a no-wind condition , and getting the best possible fuel economy performance from the powerplant . The Icon folks are openly honest about this on their specs page : <URL> , and range is certainly " Performance " in my book . Personally I have no doubt that the A5 could manage 300NM under the conditions for which its designers did the math to arrive at that number - it 's a slick little plane with a fuel-sipping engine - but they may have done a " to empty tanks " calculation ( leaving you to account for the <URL> ) , and in the real world the 15-knot headwind you run into will substantially reduce your range ( or , conversely , you can fly in the other direction and increase it ) . As with all aircraft your mileage will , quite literally , vary depending on the day and direction of flight .
First it is beneficial to have an idea how the <URL> . With <URL> , the suction peak on the upper side is already well developed at smaller angles of attack , so the surrounding air will be accelerated towards that low pressure area . Now you need to extend that mental picture to 3D . The inner wing has those flaps deployed and , consequently , a suction peak near the leading edge and low pressure on the whole upper side . This will also suck in air from the side . As a consequence , the flow moving towards the outer wing will see a similar upward acceleration as does the flow streaming towards the inner wing , plus a sideways acceleration . This acceleration increases the local angle of attack at the leading edge of both wing sections . If the outer wing was already close to its stall angle of attack before the flaps were lowered , now the increased angle of attack will push the flow beyond the stall condition . The geometrical angle of attack ( measured as the angle between the flow direction at infinity and the reference length of the airfoil ) did not change . The " real " angle of attack as experienced by the outer wing , however , will produce a flow similar to what would normally only be experienced at a higher geometrical angle of attack . This moves the outer wing into the stall region when the inner wing still works in the linear realm . This can lead to asymmetric stalls which produce a strong and sudden rolling moment , and at low altitude that is the last thing you need while lining up with the runway . Adding <URL> will move the stall angle of attack up a few degrees , and now it will again be the inner wing which stalls first , as it should .
Other folks have already addressed why we want to lock the flight controls when we leave the aircraft - " to prevent damage from gusts of wind " , and " to keep the plane from doing interesting things in a strong breeze " . To the question of the " best " position to lock controls in , for light aircraft the general consensus is that the rudder and ailerons should be locked in the neutral position - In this position any wind blowing over the wings will cause them to lift uniformly , putting tension on the tiedown ropes holding the aircraft to the ground . ( If the ailerons are locked at an angle one wing will generate more lift than the other , allowing one of the tiedown ropes to go slack . ) Elevators are a subject of a little more nuance and debate : It 's generally considered best to lock the elevator in the " nose down " position ( because any gusts of wind over the tail will push the nose down , rather than encouraging the nose to lift , this also means that those gusts will apply tension to a tie-down rope located at the tail rather than causing it to go slack ) . On some aircraft locking the elevator in the nose-down ( or nose-up ) position opens up spaces that birds may try to nest in ( <URL> ) - some pilots prefer to lock the elevator of these aircraft in the neutral position to discourage avian visitors . Generally it 's better to lock the controls than leave them unlocked to bang around in the wind , so on some light aircraft not equipped with control locks pilots use the seatbelt to hold the controls in place . This often results in a " sub-optimal " control position ( elevator fully nose-up , ailerons full-deflection left or right ) , but because the wind speed at which control surfaces may bang against their stops is usually lower than the speed at which the aerodynamically unfavorable control positions will substantially affect the aircraft this is a " lesser of two evils " approach .
From a totally practical standpoint , let 's say you 're in a small tricycle gear aircraft with a freely castoring nose wheel ( or a tail dragger ) and you 're starting your takeoff roll in a calm wind . When you bring the power up , the aircraft is going to want to turn left ( <URL> ) , in other words to yaw about its vertical axis in a counter-clockwise direction , and head for the grass off the left side of the runway . You counteract that adverse yaw by using right rudder to keep the airplane straight . Initially you might have to use some right brake as well until there 's sufficient air moving past the rudder . If you had a steerable nose gear , you would n't need the right brake . You reach flying speed , apply up elevator , and lift off . As the airplane rotates about its lateral axis , there 'll be some additional adverse yaw as a result of that rotation ( again another question ) . Even if you had a steerable nose gear , that would now be useless as the nose gear is no longer on the ground . Your means of continuing to fly straight ahead is to counter the adverse yaw with rudder , and you would continue to use right rudder as you climb out . If you do n't , you 'll start turning left . You reach the altitude you want , level off , and trim for level flight straight ahead . Then you decide you want to turn left . You start the turn briskly with left aileron , but you forgot to use any rudder . If you were looking at the ball on the bottom of the turn and bank indicator , you would see it shoot left . If you had used left rudder while initiating the turn , that would n't have happened . You would have started a coordinated turn . Now you 're coming back to the airport , and there 's a crosswind from the left . You decide you want to counter that crosswind by slipping into it . In other words , you want the airplane to travel sideways at a speed that matches the crosswind while still having your nose pointing straight down the runway . So , you lower the left wing and to keep the airplane from turning , you use right rudder to keep the airplane aligned with the runway . You match the crosswind by adding or decreasing your bank . There are other uses of rudder , and especially in aerobatics . I once flew a few loads of skydivers . The jumpmaster sat behind me , and to help him in positioning for the drop zone , he wanted flat turns . In other words , he wanted the airplane turned while keeping the wings level . So , if he wanted a left turn , that meant left rudder and right aileron . Uncomfortable from a pilot 's standpoint . Finally , back in the 1960s when I was working on my instrument rating , I had an instructor who taught that the best way to track a localizer in close was to use rudder only for small corrections . Personally , I do n't like that method , but it 's one way of doing things . A useful thing , the rudder . You need to be able to directly control movement about all three aircraft axes .
CNN has applied for and received multiple waivers for <URL> as allowed by <URL> . <URL> -- This allows " Small unmanned aircraft system ( sUAS ) operations over human beings in accordance with the CNN UAS Operations Manual , Fotokite Pro 1 Operator Guide , and Fotokite Pro 1 Specifications Sheet . " It allows operation " over private or controlled-access property with permission from a person with legal authority to grant access " and prohibits operations over open-air assemblies of people . <URL> -- This allows operations " conducted over human beings for the purpose of closed-set motion picture and television filming " . Make and model of sUAS not specified , but all operations must comply with the operator 's manual . <URL> -- This waiver is granted for the Vantage Robotics Snap only , and allows " operations over all human beings ( including Nonparticipants ) " . It also limits the altitude when operated over people to 150 feet AGL , as opposed to the normal limit of 400 feet AGL . I assume this is the waiver you are interested in . The simple reason why only one particular model of UAS is allowed is that CNN only submitted that model for waiver and no others , and the FAA approved that . This is a somewhat unsatisfying answer , but neither CNN 's nor the FAA 's reasoning is included in the text of the waiver itself . The rest of this answer is speculation on my part . As can be seen on <URL> , the Snap is reasonably lightweight ( 1.37 lbs / 620 g including battery ) , has caged props , and has a high-quality camera . ( The camera is n't a matter of safety , but it is presumably something a cable news provider is interested in . ) If a prop were to fail catastrophically , the cage would hopefully contain at least some of it , thus eliminating risk of a crowd being hit by sharp objects . The height restriction of 150 feet AGL reduces the potential for injury of a nonparticipant should the sUAS fall on them , and the prop cages prevent contact with moving parts . I suspect that CNN applied for a waiver specifically for this model and the FAA approved it based on the following : It 's specific . The more general the application , the more likely it is to be rejected . If you know what you 're working with , you can evaluate all the parameters and come up with a safe solution . If there are more variables , it 's harder to reason about . It has certain safety features as discussed above , which make it more suitable for flight over nonparticipants than some other models . It 's standard . CNN has a single platform to train their over-crowd operators on . Once again , this also has safety benefits , because the operators are extremely familiar with one model of unit , instead of broadly familiar with many different ones . This particular model of sUAS had all the features that CNN wanted and that the FAA was interested in for this application . This may include such factors as weight , safety features , well-written operation and maintenance manual , and ease of maintenance . Additionally CNN may have liked the cost ( the FAA would n't care about that ) . The FAA maintains a list of <URL> .
Helicopters are very inefficient in forward flight , for several reasons . Consider Glauert 's high speed assumption , i.e. the helicopter can be represented as an aircraft with a circular wing during high speed flight . Now , if you know anything about basic fixed-wing performance , you 'll realize immediately that this implies an aspect ratio just over 1 , which is awfully small . You may recall that for a fixed-wing aircraft , induced drag is inversely proportional aspect ratio -- so a very low aspect ratio means very high induced drag ! Induced drag is normally not a big deal for fixed-wing aircraft at high speed because it 's proportional to the square of the lift coefficient ( which decreases with speed ) , but ... In reality , the situation for a helicopter is even worse ! Glauert 's assumption assumes we have an ideal rotor , i.e. one that has a uniform induced velocity throughout . In practice , the inflow distribution over the rotor is highly non-uniform , especially at high speeds where the advancing side of the rotor is in a very different aerodynamic environment than the retreating side . Even on a very simple level , the " working area " swept on the retreating side is much smaller than that on the advancing side . Since lift needs to be balanced , momentum theory implies a higher induced velocity over the smaller area " worked " by the retreating side , and therefore a much higher induced drag at high speeds than an equivalent fixed wing aircraft . <URL> <URL> As the helicopter goes faster , and as the rotor turns more slowly , more of the retreating side blade will stall , which leads to a dramatic increase in drag . This starts on the inboard section of the blades , and moves outwards as the advance ratio ( ratio between flight speed and tip speed ) increases . In fact , the most inboard sections of the blade will even be in reversed flow -- and airfoils do n't work too well backwards . On the advancing side , things are bad too , but for different reasons . The profile drag of the rotor increases rapidly with speed . Moreover , as the advance ratio increases , the advancing tip Mach number also increases -- and as the blades get into the high transonic regime , local shocks begin to form and lead to even larger increases in drag . This can be delayed by slowing the rotor down , but that makes the problems on the retreating side even worse ! In general , it 's hard to develop airfoils that work well in both regimes . Outside of the rotor itself , the rotor hub is very draggy , between the main rotor shaft , pitch links , swashplate , hinges and blade grips , etc. . Helicopters usually have pretty " utilitarian " fuselages , as well , which are not so well streamlined . Plus , you have the tail rotor , which has most of the same problems as the main rotor . Back to the specific question of range , the Bregruet range equation says that the range of an aircraft is proportional to the lift-to-drag ratio and the speed of the aircraft . We 've already established that the L/D of a helicopter is pretty bad , especially at speed . So , the cruise speed is going to be pretty low and the L/D is going to be pretty low , so to sum up , the range is going to be really low . The tradeoff is that the helicopter is very good at hovering -- even amongst VTOL platforms , the helicopter is the most efficient . Speed and range are the price you pay for that capability .
I certainly would not say that the 737 MAX is " losing heavily " to the A320neo . The A320neo is entering service in the next couple of months ( October 2015 . ) The 737 MAX is n't entering service for another 2 years ( 2017 . ) I do n't think many aircraft manufacturers would be upset with having <URL> for an aircraft that is still 2 years from even entering service . It should further be noted that the A320neo was right around the same total when it was 2 years from entering service . Some additional factors that come into play : The A320 line tends to be more popular in the low-budget Asian market , which is growing significantly right now . The U.S. Dollar is currently relatively strong compared to the Euro , due to lots of economic problems in the Eurozone . This means that products exported by European manufacturers are relatively cheaper than products exported by American manufacturers compared to their usual price difference . Obviously , that 's an advantage for Airbus , as it means that it 's cheaper than normal right now for customers to buy Airbus vs. buying Boeing . This is , again , especially important to the cost-sensitive low-budget markets . Airbus ' Chinese assembly line allows them to make A320s for the Asian market quite a bit cheaper than Boeing can make 737s for that market , due to the major differences in labor costs .
The Ju-87 Stuka did undergo engine change during its life . The initial Ju-87A version used the <URL> A engine , which produced 602 hp . This was almost immediately replaced with Jumo 210D , which produced around 661 hp . The first production version , the Junkers Ju-87 B-1 used a <URL> D generating 1,184 hp . Note this version had the fuselage and landing gear redesigned from 87A . The next major version , the Ju-87D , used a Jumo 211J delivering 1,401 hp , after briefly dabbling with Daimler-Benz DB 603 engines . The final operational version of Stuka , the Ju-87G , used the Jumo 211J engine . This is more or less the same path followed by other combat aircraft of the era . For example the Hawker Hurricane MkI used a Merlin III engine producing 1,310 hp , while the last major version , the MkIV used the Merlin 24 ( or 27 ) engines , producing 1,620 hp . However , the main thrust in engine change in Ju-87 was increasing the payload , rather than increased speed or maneuverability like the Hurricanes . For example , Bomb carrying ability was nearly quadrupled from 500 kg in the B-version to 1,800 kg ( max load ) in the D-version . Another reason was the aircraft design itself . It was designed to be a rigged dive bomber , and increase in speed would 've done it no good ( it is to be noted that the fixed landing gear added a lot of drag , though it was study enough to mount a cannon ) and it had limited maneuverability at the best of times when loaded ( though it had good turn performance at low altitudes ) . The airframe had reached its limit . The only reason the Stuka served till the end of the war though its limitations had become apparent by the Battle of Britan was simply because no better replacements were avilable ( though the process started in early 1940 's ) , though the <URL> took over some of the duties of Ju-87 .
I 'll address these one by one . Should shoulder harnesses be installed , at least to enable passengers to decide to use them or not ? No . They would not serve a significant purpose to improve safety in those seats , and they would add weight and increase maintenance costs for airlines . Keep reading , and this will come to light collectively with my full answer . Why would shoulder harnesses be obligated for flight attendants in their jump seats , but not for passengers ? Those seats are n't lined up in rows , therefore there is no seat in front of them that they would hit and be stopped by . Think of it like a school bus with no seat belts ; the passengers will be stopped by the seat in front of them in a low-force crash , but the bus driver wears a seat belt because there is a steering wheel and windshield in front of them , not a padded seat . How is 4 true ? ( It is superfluous in a crash when compared to the same safety from a lap belt ) Essentially , if there is a crash that will kill people , the shoulder harness will not be the thing that makes a difference . The lap belt is n't really even there for crashes . Extreme turbulence could throw someone up out of a seat ; a lap belt is sufficient to prevent this . A shoulder strap is designed to reduce impact with an object on board a vehicle . A car , we can safely assume , will remain in one piece if it hits a concrete wall . Airplanes do not have structures designed to withstand impacts like that . If a plane disintegrates in a crash , the passenger , packaged along with the lap belt , shoulder strap , and all , will come to impact the external object directly due to structural failure . No seat belt can save you from a total structural failure . Do the safety benefits not outweigh the costs ? Since there really is no safety benefit whatsoever in adding them in the seats that do n't already have them , no . It would be security theater that costs airlines a lot of money . Regarding Pilots Notice I highlighted the low-force impact statement up above in regards to buses . Let 's say there is a low-force impact in a plane such as a taxiing crash that jars everyone on board . The passengers will hit the seats in front of them , not that the seats are even necessary to prevent injury . However the pilots , on the other hand , have a lot of hard instrumentation in front of them such as throttle quadrants , and other things you do n't want accidentally shoved forward during a ground crash .
Check the units . Using $ $ W = 50000N $ $ instead of $ W = 5099kg $ you get $ $ V = 83m/s $ $ ( vs. $ V = 26.5 \ sqrt { m } $ ) .
If the controlling software allows it then yes . There 's at least one drone available where autonomous flight <URL> ; the <URL> says that the drone will continue its " mission " even if you lose the signal to it , although the overall length of the flight path is limited to 5km and the drone will not fly close to airports . Other drones stop and hover or land if they lose the connection to the controller . Whether doing this is actually a good idea ( or legal in whichever jurisdiction you want to operate in ) or not is a whole other question .
ATC frequencies do n't change very often , but when they do they are planned well in advance . NOTAM 's are issued ahead of time to let people know , and if the airport has ATIS they will include the new frequency on the ATIS . If it is an enroute frequency , the other controllers will simply hand you off to the new frequency , and you do n't even need to know about it ahead of time .
You are right : A slip is a cross-controlled ( and uncoordinated ) situation . It 's exactly what your instructor was teaching you to avoid during your early lessons . As far as nomenclature goes : all slips are cross-controlled maneuvers , but not all cross-controlled maneuvers are slips : On climb-out in most piston singles you will be stomping on the right rudder to offset the plane 's left-turning tendencies , and you will probably notice that you 're rolling in a tiny bit of left aileron ( which offsets the banking tendency introduced by the rudder ) - your controls may be very slightly crossed , but the result is coordinated flight ( a centered ball ) . The real difference here between an " unintentionally cross-controlled situation " and an " intentional slip " is the intentional bit : When you are knowingly slipping the aircraft - for example to bleed off altitude on a high final without increasing your airspeed - you 're aware that you 're flying in an uncoordinated and aerodynamically unstable condition . You 're aware of the risks , and are hopefully monitoring the aircraft carefully to avoid a stall/spin . For a little more insight , faaflighttest.us <URL> which is worth a read , and possibly an hour in the air practicing some of what they discuss with your instructor so you can get the " feel " .
The maneuver was safe . A spokesperson of the DFS ( German Air Traffic Control ) told the Berliner Morgenpost that the pilot requested and was given clearance to fly a left curve in case of a go-around . The necessary distance to other aircraft was ensured and a specific height for the maneuver was not determined . The spokesperson also said that the DFS believes that this maneuver was safe . However the LBA ( Federal Aviation Office ) started examining the case and requested Air Berlin to submit a statement which provides a reason for the go-around . The editorial staff of that newspaper believes this to be a routine procedure . <URL> A rough translation of the relevant part in english : Christian Hoppe , spokesperson of the German Air Traffic Control confirmed that : " The pilot previously requested if he is allowed to fly a left-curve in case of a go-around and was given clearance . " The necessary distance to other aircraft was ensured , the specific height of the maneuver was not determined . " From the DSF 's point of view the maneuver was safe . " The Federal Office for Air Navigation corrected earlier information , which claimed that the pilot had reported problems with the landing-gear . " That was our assumption . " The Federal Aviation Office will nonetheless examine the case , Air Berlin should submit a statement on the reason of the go-around . Our editorial staff believes , after multiple requests , that this is most likely routine operation .
14.5 % given in the article is the ( maximum ) thickness to chord ratio , expressed in percentage . It is usually used to explain how thin ( or thick ) the airfoil is . Note that this is a characteristic of the airfoil . From the NASA page <URL> : <URL> Airfoil thickness to chord ratio , image from NASA page <URL> ... The straight line drawn from the leading to trailing edges of the airfoil is called the chord line . ... The maximum distance between the two lines is called the camber , which is a measure of the curvature of the airfoil ( high camber means high curvature ) . The maximum distance between the upper and lower surfaces is called the thickness . Often you will see these values divided by the chord length to produce a non-dimensional or " percent " type of number .
Short answer If a single range should be stated for ACAS II , it would be the reliable range of 14 NM , even if targets can displayed by current TCAS II up to 30/40 NM . Reliable means here : a track can be established with a probability of at least 90 per cent for aircraft within the surveillance range . The reliable range of 14 NM is achievable with a ground plane antenna a power of 250 W and a Mode S sensitivity of -- 74 dBm . Diversity of ranges There are different range values that can be considered : Overall pulse detection range is 30 NM . Reliable surveillance range is 14 NM . Recommended RA range is 12 NM . Guaranteed range is 4.5 NM . The range must be limited because it impacts the number of transponder addresses to be stored for a given transponder density as well as the number of interrogations within a volume , hence radio spectrum use and reliability . ACAS II recommendations by ICAO ACAS II ICAO recommendations are found in <URL> , Airborne Collision Avoidance System ( ACAS ) Manual : Interrogation pulse detection range is 14 NM for Mode A/C and 30 NM for Mode S . The equipment should have the capacity for surveillance of any mix of Mode A/C or Mode S targets up to at least 30 aircraft . Surveillance must be reliable within 14 NM , with an aircraft density of 0.3 aircraft per square NM within 5 NM ( and up to 142 aircraft within 30 NM ) . The equipment should assess as possible collision threats only those targets within a maximum range of 12 NM . No target outside this range should be eligible to generate an RA . As density increases , reliability decreases . If the overall target count ever exceeds the surveillance capacity at any range up to 14 NM , the long-range targets may be dropped . The system reliability is guaranteed within the minimum range of 4.5 NM . This radius is deemed adequate for providing protection for up to 500 kt encounter . TCAS version 7.1 TCAS II is the sole implementation of ACAS II which fully comply with ACAS II . The reference ( paying ) documents are : <URL> ( RTCA ) and <URL> ( EUROCAE ) . From the EASA document <URL> TCAS II can simultaneously track up to 30 aircraft , within a nominal range of 14 NM for Mode A/C targets and 30 NM for Mode S targets . In implementations that allow for the use of the Mode S extended squitter , the normal surveillance range may be increased beyond the nominal 14 NM . However , this information is not used for collision avoidance purposes . This is confirmed in FAA document <URL> TCAS has a requirement to provide reliable surveillance out to a range of 14 nmi and in traffic densities of up to 0.3 aircraft per square nautical mile . [ ... ] TCAS can simultaneously track up to 30 transponder-equipped aircraft within a nominal range of 30 nmi .
Please do n't believe everything you read . You healthy scepticism is your best defense against the nonsense you might read about <URL> . What causes the flow to increase its angle when approaching the leading edge is the low pressure region above the wing . This is not only the main contributor to the wing 's lift , but also the reason for the flow pattern ahead of the wing , in combination with the overpressure region around the stagnation point . Please read <URL> and let me know if something is left unclear .
For the current format , it was 1993 when it was standardized . On July 1 , 1993 , a new , revised Terminal Aerodrome Forecast ( TAF ) format and code replaced the existing TAF code . This new code is in effect in most countries . The exceptions are the United States and Canada . These two countries issue Terminal Forecasts for domestic use and TAFs for the military and those airports serving international aviation . On January 1 , 1996 the U.S. and Canada will convert entirely to the new TAF code . After that date , the new code for weather reports ( METAR ) and TAFs will be used worldwide . The North American code used in the FT ( and SAO ) will be discontinued . Although the new TAF code is being adopted worldwide , each country is allowed to make modifications or exceptions to the code for use in each particular country . The TAF code , as described here , is the one used in the United States for those airports serving international aviation and will also be used after the January 1 , 1996 conversion date . The World Meteorological Organization 's ( WMO ) publication No. 782 " Aerodrome Reports and Forecasts " contains the base METAR and TAF code as adopted by the WMO member countries . ( <URL> ) <URL> also confirms the date for the US . The WMO publication No. 782 can be <URL> .
end question
start question
What is transmitting this radio signal @ ~ 110.515 MHz and for what purpose ?
Well , the SDR dongle paid off - mystery solved . It turns out , the signal was actually at 153.2 MHz , but was somehow breaking through into 110.515 MHz on my handheld scanner . The signal originates from a high power pager transmitter using the FLEX protocol . As this is plain text , I decoded some of it using an excellent open source application called PDW , and have listed it below for reference and general interest ( sensitive information has been redacted ! ) .
Blending is the process of filing and polishing damaged sections off of the turbine blade . This prevents further damage and extends the life of the engine without having to replace parts , making it a very economical solution . There is a limit however , as modifying the turbine blades leads to a small cost in efficiency that can build up over time . <URL>
" Four hundred " was likely annunciated twice due to a bit of a dip in the terrain that would cause it to pass the 400ft level twice . The " hundred above " call-out is for 100 feet above decision height to let the crew know they will need to make their decision soon to either continue or go around . After that , you hear the " two hundred " and " minimum " call-outs right after one another . The " one hundred " call-out afterwards signifies 100 feet above ground level .
The maneuver is called a " breakaway maneuver " or simply a " break " , it 's also sometimes colloquially referred to as " peeling off " in the context of aircraft leaving formation . You can see it more clearly in this video : This is a standard maneuver used when <URL> , or as a way to safely exit formation flight ensuring that the departing aircraft is clear of the rest of the formation group . It also has tactical advantages as seen in the photo you posted ( when being tracked by an infra-red/heat-seaking missile , dropping flares and a hard breakaway is one technique used to convince the missile that the flare is actually your engine , by getting your real heat source out of its " line of sight " quickly ) . Aerodynamically the breakaway maneuver is nothing more than a steep turn : Roll the aircraft into the desired bank , setting power and pitch up to maintain your altitude and airspeed in the turn as desired . <URL> , though the bank angle and airframe loading ( G forces ) would need to be maintained within the aircraft 's limitations . The primary difference with fighters and attack aircraft is that the bank angle is dramatically steeper ( in the extreme , a 90-degree " knife-edge " bank ) and the turn much tighter because these aircraft have the excess power ( thrust ) required to sustain flight in that configuration and are sturdy enough to withstand the G loading induced by a " hard pull " in the breakaway maneuver . The abrupt wings-up turn along with the nice roar you get advancing the throttles makes the maneuver an impressive one for airshow crowds to watch .
Some <URL> databases are <URL> and require a USB port . Since navigational databases are updated frequently and require a simple way to make an update , USB ( or memory card slots ) are generally used to allow for rapid and easy updates without having to remove any panels . In some cases the port may be in the avionics bay however that is usually easily accessed as well . It should be noted that a recent change in regulation now allows pilots to update nav data , <URL> . Was it really intended for charging devices like phones ? That seems naively insecure . Generally these ports are not for charging but the basic design of a USB port more or less always allows you to charge from it because of the nature of the port . The security on the ports is more about cockpit security . In most cases the security lies in making it difficult to get into the cockpit in the first place . It is often assumed now that if you are in the cockpit you should be there . There is of course many questions this opens up some of which have been answered here or would be good to ask about . As iPads become more common in the cockpit for navigation and the such USB ports are <URL> for charging but this seems to be more common in GA planes currently .
MULTICOM is used when operating in the vicinity of an airport that has no tower , no FSS , and no UNICOM so would n't be appropriate here . There is an air-to-air frequency ( 122.75 ) but most pilots do n't monitor it unless they have a specific reason to ( i.e. someone else that they want to talk to ) .1 You can listen to the closest airport or approach control frequency , but that would only help if the other aircraft is on the same frequency . In short , there is n't a good option for this , and in my opinion , unless you have a spotter watching for traffic in the area it would be pretty hard to do safely since it will be very hard for you to watch the area for traffic while doing aerobatics . Other pilots may also have a hard time spotting you because you could be approaching from odd angles . If you can get flight following , I would highly recommend it , but there is an even better option : Practice in an Aerobatic Practice Area . See <URL> for more specifics on this . Not only would ATC and airports in the area know where you were , but a NOTAM is issued any time that it is active to warn pilots transitioning the area . 1 See <URL> for more details on communication frequencies .
The different airspeeds : IAS is indicated airpseed CAS is calibrated airspeed EAS is equivalent airspeed TAS is true airspeed CAS is IAS corrected for instrumentation and position errors . The errors are most pronounced in slow and high angle-of-attack flight . IAS figures in aircraft manuals are actually converted from CAS . For ease of use . <URL> ( Wikipedia link ) . <URL> However , a modern plane with an <URL> ( ADC ) actually displays CAS , despite being labelled as IAS . Below 200 knots and 10,000 feet , for all purposes , CAS equals EAS . As the plane goes faster and higher and compresses the air , the air changes density , an effect known as compressibility that affects the CAS reading . <URL> EAS is computed by the ADC on a modern fast plane , and together with the density altitude , the TAS is then known . Ground speed and track ( from GPS , navaids , and/or INS ) together with the TAS allows the <URL> to calculate and display the wind speed/direction . Before ADC 's , pilots used charts like those in the answer . Summary : In a modern plane , what the pilot actually uses is CAS , despite being labelled IAS . And EAS is used in computing the TAS by the ADC . For engineers , TAS ( actual velocity through the air ) is used in lift equations , EAS is used in calculating dynamic pressures on the plane ( TAS corrected for air density ) . Source used and a must read : <URL>
Rotor is the generic name for something in rotation . It can be used for a propeller , the rotating wing of an helicopter , the rotating elements of a compressor or a turbine , etc. . Rotor ( rotating ) is the antonym of stator ( stationary ) . Propeller blades are airfoils ( small wings ) which accelerate air to create lift and thrust . Sometimes a propeller is referred as a propeller disc to designate the whole disc swept by the blades , and the inner cone . <URL> <URL> . Propeller blades are fixed on the rotation axis , except for the pitch angle . Rotor blades ( rotorcraft ) are not fixed , they have some freedom in flapping and leading-lagging . <URL> Source : <URL> These freedom degrees are necessary to prevent vibrations due to varying forces encountered by a blade during a full turn . Rotor blades of a gas turbine are like propeller blades , though for the turbine itself they may work by " impulse " and by reaction ( acceleration by converging nozzle ) , and more generally by a mix of both principles . <URL> Often the inner part of a rotor holding the blades is referred as the rotor disc . Blades of a turbine engine are fixed like blades of a propeller , though in some cases they are not locked on the disc mechanically , but dynamically by the centrifugal force . The distinction between rotor and propeller is more a matter of custom . Rotor is quite generic , you ca n't be wrong using it for a spinning device . Propeller is rather specific to the mean of creating horizontal thrust within a fluid and with the objective to move an object . A house fan is not a propeller . You may find a similar distinction between ( aerodynamic ) lift ( and drag ) and thrust , created by the same phenomena : Fluid acceleration . The distinction is here in the way the aerodynamic force is symbolically broken down into geometrical components .
The noise is created by sparks caused by static electricity . As the aircraft flies through the air , it picks up electrons from the air molecules . This extra charge will want to flow back into the air to equalize the charge . Small gaps in the conductive path on the aircraft will cause sparks to form . These sparks cause noise on radio frequencies , which can be picked up by the aircraft radios . The static sparks will cause noise on the aircraft radios , sometimes a <URL> . Aircraft use <URL> on trailing edges to allow the charge to equalize . If components are electrically bonded well , static electricity should not be noticeable , other than under <URL> . The wicks are fixed and not telescopic but of course can be removed if replacement is needed .
The noise within the engine will make all flow turbulent . There is not much liberty for the engine designer to choose the type of boundary layer . Generally , a laminar boundary layer is preferable as long as the flow is accelerated , because viscous drag will be lower , and a turbulent one is better when it is decelerated , so <URL> . Outside of boundary layer phenomena , turbulence is helpful for keeping the <URL> going in the combustor and especially in the afterburner . Ahead of the combustor all engines have a diffusor to <URL> , so it has time to mix with the fuel and burn as much of it as possible . Note that the diffusor only slows down the axial movement of the air , so radial velocities will not be affected and be relatively larger relative to the axial flow at the entry of the combustion chamber . This makes the flow more turbulent , which is helpful for better fuel-air mixing . In the afterburner , flame holders are needed to produce pockets of slow-moving , hot gas which can ignite the fuel-air mixture . Again , they cause more turbulence . <URL> Flame holder ( 10 ) with annular selectors ( 9 ) of an afterburner ( picture <URL> ) At the nozzle , turbulent mixing of the hot core flow and the bypass flow reduces noise . Engine nozzles use a <URL> to speed up the mixing process .
Tower enroute control is similar to the preferred route in that both are designed to improve the system effeciency . FAA defines the Tower En Route Control ( TEC ) ( in AIM section 4-1-19 ) as : TEC is an ATC program to provide a service to aircraft proceeding to and from metropolitan areas . It links designated Approach Control Areas by a network of identified routes made up of the existing airway structure of the National Airspace System . Preferred routes , on the other hand ( from <URL> ) are defined as : Preferred IFR routes are established between busier airports to increase system efficiency and capacity . They normally extend through one or more ARTCC areas and are designed to achieve balanced traffic flows among high density terminals . This outlines one of the major differences between the two : in TEC route , you never ' talk ' to the ARTCC . As <URL> : TEC flights are intended to be relatively short -- generally two hours or less , and are conducted below 10,000 feet . Throughout the route , communications are managed through tower controllers , and departure and approach controllers at a TRACON facility . You will never talk to ARTCC . Another important thing is that the TEC is essentially equivalent of getting a pop-up IFR clearance , <URL> ( from AIM section 4-1-19 ) : There are no unique requirements upon pilots to use the TEC program . Normal flight plan filing procedures will ensure proper flight plan processing . Pilots should include the acronym " TEC " in the remarks section of the flight plan when requesting tower en route control . The TEC is established only in areas with Radar coverage . US DoT <URL> specifically notes : TEC should be established/expanded only within areas of radar coverage . In areas without radar coverage ... an equivalent level of safety is maintained , TEC may be established and/or expanded . TECs basically are published preferred IFR routes that are entirely in TRACON airspace . As a result , most of the TECs are in the northeast and the west coast ( which can be found <URL> ) , where the airspaces are close enough that one can fly with Radar coverage the whole way .
It 's for the microphone ( the standard sized one is for the head phones ) . They are different size so the pilot knows to try the other hole if it does n't fit . From <URL> Commercial and general aviation ( GA ) civil airplane headset plugs are similar , but not identical . A standard 1⁄4 in monaural plug , type PJ-055 , is used for headphones , paired with special tip-ring-sleeve , 0.206 inch diameter plug , type PJ-068 , for the microphone . On the microphone plug the Ring is used for the microphone ' hot ' and the sleeve is common or microphone ' Lo ' .
It 's not this does that and nothing else . It is always a combination . In climb you need to provide more energy to the aircraft because you are increasing it 's potential energy . This can be taken from the energy which would have been spent to overcome drag in horizontal flight by flying slower . Less energy is needed to sustain the now lower flight speed , so some is left for climbing . When you pull on the stick , you trim the aircraft for a lower flight speed ( at least if you fly a naturally stable configuration ) , so some of the excess energy needs to be spent in other ways . The aircraft climbs . If you advance the throttle , the trimmed speed will stay the same , but now more energy is available to be spent . It will be spent on climbing , because speed is already set by your elevator angle . In a non-supercharged ( normally aspirated ) piston engine , the decreasing air density with increasing altitude will provide less air with every filling of the pistons . You need to lean the engine to keep the fuel-to-air ratio constant , so the engine will consume less fuel at the same engine speed , but also provide less power and thrust . Since air is also thinner for all other parts of the airplane , your true air speed will increase , your drag will decrease at the same true air speed and you can fly faster . But since your normally aspirated engine will provide less power , you need to advance the throttle in order to keep your attitude , speed , and climb rate . At some point , you will reach maximum power , and as you climb further , climb speed will decline until you reach the maximum flight altitude your airplane is capable of . Flying higher will increase the efficiency of the engine due to lower air temperature , but this effect is small for piston-powered aircraft . Once you switch to supercharged aircraft , turboprops , and jets , however , <URL> . Flight speed , however , does make a substantial difference , especially for piston-powered aircraft . Their <URL> is $ c_L = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ Lambda } $ and is rather high . Flying low means that you will fly a lot faster than what this optimum demands , and the higher you fly , the closer you will be to this optimum , simply because your engine will not allow a higher speed . That is why flying higher helps to fly more efficiently .
I lived and flew in North Dakota for about three years . While I was there , people talked about ( and I experienced ) the delightful mixture of snow and dirt called snirt . It can be the result of plowing sanded roads , and also can be caused by the high winds that come out of Canada blowing dirt from fields onto areas still covered in snow . <URL> . I have a feeling that 's what was described by your friend . It appears in Wikipedia 's <URL> , but as far as I am aware it is not an FAA or NOAA term .
" Clearance Delivery " is exactly what you 've surmised it is - a frequency used on the ground to copy your initial clearance from ATC before you take off . The idea behind using a dedicated frequency for this is that it avoids tying up the ground control frequency ( used for authorizing ground movement on taxiways and such ) with long clearances and readbacks . Clearance Delivery is found at controlled fields . Pilots operating under Instrument Flight Rules will generally use it prior to each flight , and at airfields in class C or class B airspace it 's used by VFR pilots as well ( since they 'll be talking to departure controllers very shortly after take off until clear of the controlled airspace ) . At less busy fields Clearance Delivery is often staffed by the same controller working Ground ( e.g. at <URL> it 's usually the same controller working both positions ) , and at some airports clearances will be read over the ground control frequency when it 's not busy . At busier airports clearance is usually its own position - possibly with multiple frequencies ( e.g. at <URL> there is a separate clearance frequency for helicopters ) .
Flameout basically means that the flame in the combustion chamber has been extinguished . A jet engine compresses air , then adds fuel and ignites it . So , it needs three things to function correctly - fuel , air ( oxygen ) , and the heat to make them burn . <URL> . It can happen for a number of reasons : fuel starvation - <URL> suffered flameout ( due to wrong amount of fuel being put ) and had to be landed like a glider . Compressor stall ( or surge ) - The disruption of airflow due to compressor stall can cause an engine flameout . Ingestion of foreign objects - <URL> suffered flameouts in all four engines due to ingestion of volcanic ash Firing of armament - Early in its service A-10 Warthog suffered flameouts due to the engines ingesting the gassed generated while firing the GAU-8 Avenger . Early jet engines ( like the Jumo 004B ) had <URL> ; however , modern jet engine flame outs are very rare , at the rate of about one every 100,000 non military flights . In most cases of flameout , the <URL> for resumption of flight . <URL> mentions a case where flameout happened because a F-100 ingested fuel ( during aerial refueling ) ; however , such occurrences are quite rare .
VHF transmissions are limited by line of sight . So , assuming the transmitter is at the tower location , and assuming the aircraft is at cruise altitude ( say F300 , or 30,000 feet or more ) , the maximum range is perhaps 200 to 300 km before the curvature of the earth eliminates the line of sight . This also depends on weather conditions and the transmitter power . In practice , VHF coverage may be extended using additional transceiver sites on the same ( or different ) frequency . This is particularly important in mountainous terrain . For oceanic flights where there is no place to put additional transceiver sites , HF ( shortwave ) radio can be used which has a much greater range ( thousands of km ) , especially at night . Some aircraft are also equipped with satellite phones so controllers can simply call them . However , this would n't be the tower controllers talking to the pilots over the ocean , as tower controllers are n't responsible for en route control .
Do they generate the same navigation signal ? The DVOR reverses the useage of the two 30Hz signals . However , by also reversing the direction of it 's rotating variable signal it produces exactly the same result in the receiver . The receiver has no " knowledge " that it 's a DVOR as opposed to CVOR it 's receiving and operates as normal . Can they be used by the same receiver , or do VOR receivers need to be specially adapted to DVORs ? Affirm , same receiver . Is one more accurate than the other ? DVOR is more accurate , and more expensive . CVOR is required to be ± 4 ° , however DVOR is required to be ± 1 ° , per Convention on International Civil Aviation Annex 10 , Volume 1 . Is one more susceptible to interference than the other ? The DVOR is more practical in crowded areas or where there are tall buildings . However , it 's a big structure - around 100ft in diameter . Sources : <URL> p. 295 , <URL> , and <URL>
According to <URL> : Almost every frequent flyer has encountered this sound at one time or another . [ ... ] It happens on twin-engine Airbus models : the A320 series ( includes the subvariants A319 and A321 ) and the larger A330 . [ ... ] What you hear is a device called the power transfer unit , or PTU , which is designed to ensure adequate hydraulic pressures during single-engine operations . [ ... ] Since it is activated only when the pressure falls below a certain level , the PTU cycles on and off , on and off , on and off . [ ... ] Some Boeing aircraft also employ a PTU , but the operation is slightly different and it does n't bark like a dog . Another noise peculiar to Airbus models is a shrill , prolonged whine heard at the gate prior to departure and again after landing . This is an electric hydraulic pump used to open and close the cargo doors .
The short answer is that when a plane crashes on land we ( generally ) have a pretty good idea where to look for the black boxes - there will usually be a relatively clearly defined debris field to search . When a plane goes down in the water there 's a lot more ocean to search , and currents can deposit parts of the airframe over a much wider area , so the <URL> helps guide people to the debris field . The longer answer is that sending a signal when you are underwater is relatively easy . The pinger has a water switch : when it gets wet the water closes an electric circuit and the pinger makes a noise that can be heard on standard passive SONAR gear . Water is pretty good at conducting sound waves , so the pings can be heard over a large distance and can guide searchers to the black box ( or at least the pinger : sometimes they get ripped off , but they 're usually still near the debris field ) . We get all of that functionality in <URL> that requires effectively no maintenance ( you replace the unit when its battery expires ) . Sending a signal when you 're NOT under water is harder : you can activate the signaling device with a " G Switch " the same way the <URL> is activated , but after that the problems get harder : You ca n't use sound ( effectively ) A " pinger " beeping in the air is much less effective than under water - the range would be extremely limited even at very high volumes . Add to that the fact that crash scenes are pretty noisy with firefighting and rescue crews working and the chances of anyone hearing an acoustic beacon on the surface are pretty slim . You ca n't use light ( effectively ) A strobe on the black box may work OK in the dark , but it 's easily damaged and not terribly effective during the day , or if the recorder is upside-down , in dense foliage , under snow/mud , etc. . Radio locator beacons are problematic Radio locator beacons require an antenna - if the antenna is damaged or torn off in the crash the effective range of a radio beacon would be drastically reduced , possibly to the point of being completely ineffective . If the antenna remains attached the signal can still be reduced drastically if the box is buried under natural features ( dirt ) or aircraft debris ( aluminum skin ) . ( Both of these issues are frequently raised in criticism of ELT technology . ) It 's possible a locator system could be devised that works on the surface , but given the challenges and the fact that the location of the black box is generally known ( to within the size of the debris field at least ) when an aircraft crashes on the surface there has n't been much effort invested in this . Finally , remember that while the recorders are a very valuable part of the investigation process remember that from an investigation standpoint it does n't matter if you find the black boxes on the first day or the last day of recovery operations : Finding the recorders will not undo the crash or bring the dead back to life , so if it takes a little longer to find them while sorting through a debris field on the surface it 's really not a major problem .
end question
start question
Are there any helicopters with ejection seats ?
As others above have stated , the Kamov KA-50 family is fitted with an ejection seat . First the blades are separated from the blade sleeves , which remain attached to the mast ( rotor hub ) . a few fractions of a second later , the conventional upwards firing ejection seat is launched , using extraction rockets tied to cables to drag the seat clear of the airframe . This cutaway image shows it to reasonable effect . ' 46 ' indicates where the blade separates from the sleeve . The little sketch of the smoke on the lower right blade shows the separation , and the ' 18 ' and ' 19 ' show the extraction rocket . <URL> Digital Combat Simulations 's ( DCS ) line of computer simulations models the ka-50 , including the ejection seat . I 'm sure there 's video from the game online somewhere . <URL>
Static wicks are mostly found on aircraft that fly in <URL> because static charges typically build up when flying in precipitation , not in clear air . So you wo n't find static wicks on helicopters that are certified only for visual conditions , like the R-22 , R-44 , Bell 206 , piston Enstroms , etc. , but you will find static wicks on helis that are certified for IFR . [ Static wicks ] are used on aircraft to allow the continuous satisfactory operation of onboard navigation and radio communication systems during precipitation ( p-static ) conditions . Precipitation static is an electrical charge on an airplane caused by flying through rain , snow , ice , or dust particles . When the aircraft charge is great enough , it discharges into the surrounding air . <URL>
For go-around , several things have to be done in the moment the decision is taken : Apply full power ( obviously ) , disconnect autopilot glide-slope mode , disarm spoilers and retract them if they are extended , disarm autobrakes and in some aircraft reduce flaps . Modern airliners , and some smaller aircraft , have a method for doing all of these at once via the <URL> . On Airbus aircraft it is done by just advancing the thrust levers to the TO/GA ( full power ) position , but on Boeing aircraft and many other types it is a separate button on or near the thrust levers . So if the crew " apparently decided to undertake this procedure manually " it means they moved the thrust levers forward and started changing the other things . And probably missed one of them . Notes : I am not sure whether lateral mode remains under automatic control or not and it probably depends on aircraft as some can connect autopilot to only roll or only pitch and others do n't . Pitch control is manual immediately after go-around in either case . The last flap setting usually adds a lot of drag and a little lift . In some types the drag is too large and the flaps have to be retracted to the last usable position . On other aircraft they can be used in any position and have to be left were they were to avoid loosing lift .
Best is to contact your FAA regional office as the details of the procedures seem to vary a bit depending on your region , and the use of the airport . <URL> gives guidance the lighting and lighting of obstructions that may affect the airspace . The first paragraph reads : A sponsor proposing any type of construction or alteration of a structure that may affect the National Airspace System ( NAS ) is required under the provisions of Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations ( 14 CFR part 77 ) to notify the FAA by completing the Notice of Proposed Construction or Alteration form ( FAA Form 7460-1 ) . The form should be sent to the Obstruction Evaluation service ( OES ) . Copies of FAA Form 7460-1 may be obtained from OES , Airports District Office or FAA Website at <URL> . More information can be found here <URL> . The reporting requirements are laid down in <URL>
The FAA released a 70 page report back in 2003 titled <URL> which basically says that the overall accident rate of the two types of airplanes are almost the same . They found that the " available safety " of Technically Advanced Aircraft ( TAA ) is greater than non-TAA aircraft , however in emergency situations pilots often were not aware of the resources available . To offset this , they recommend ( among other things ) more training for pilots before flying TAA 's so that they actually have the safety related aspects available to them . Here were their official findings : Team Findings : The safety problems found in the accidents studied by the Team are typical of problems that occurred after previous introductions of new aircraft technology and all also reflect typical GA pilot judgment errors found in analysis of non-TAA accidents Previous safety problems similar to those identified in this Study have been remedied through a combination of improved training and , in the case of new aircraft capabilities , pilot screening ( i.e. , additional insurance company requirements of pilot experience ) . The predominant TAA-system-specific finding is that the steps required to call up information and program an approach in IFR-certified GPS navigators are numerous , and during high workload situations they can distract from the primary pilot duty of flying the aircraft . MFDs in the accident aircraft did not appear to present a complexity problem . The Team also believes that PFDs , while not installed in any of the accident aircraft and just now becoming available in TAAs , similarly are not likely to present a complexity problem . TAAs provide increased " available safety " , i.e. , a potential for increased safety . However , to actually obtain this available safety , pilots must receive additional training in the specific TAA systems in their aircraft that will enable them to exploit the opportunities and operate within the limitations inherent in their TAA systems . The template for securing this increased safety exists from the experiences with previous new technology introductions -- the current aircraft model-specific training and insurance requirements applicable to high-performance single and multi engine small airplanes . However , the existing training infrastructure currently is not able to provide the needed training in TAAs . Effective and feasible interventions have been identified , mostly recommending improvements in training , and effective implementation mechanisms for the recommended interventions exist . Therefore , TAA safety problems can be addressed , and the additional available safety of TAAs to address traditional causes of GA accidents can be realized as well . APOA has a nice <URL> .
There is nothing I can find in the FARs requiring that a pilot keep their hands and feet on the controls at all times . Such a requirement would be impractical and dangerous in many situations ( such as when writing down a clearance in the air : For most people if you keep your hands on the controls while writing you will have a tendency to push , pull , or twist them , resulting in unintended attitude changes ) . The most relevant sections of <URL> would be 91.3 and 91.13 : 14 CFR 91.3 ( FAR 91.3 ) says : § 91.3 Responsibility and authority of the pilot in command . ( a ) The pilot in command of an aircraft is directly responsible for , and is the final authority as to , the operation of that aircraft . ... and 14 CFR 91.13 ( FAR 91.13 ) says : § 91.13 Careless or reckless operation . ( a ) Aircraft operations for the purpose of air navigation . No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . ( b ) Aircraft operations other than for the purpose of air navigation . No person may operate an aircraft , other than for the purpose of air navigation , on any part of the surface of an airport used by aircraft for air commerce ( including areas used by those aircraft for receiving or discharging persons or cargo ) , in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . So basically it 's perfectly legal for a pilot to fly with their arms crossed and their feet flat on the floor , even without an autopilot , as long as the pilot in command remains able to exercise operational control of the aircraft as required to ensure the flight remains safe and legal , and as long as they are not acting in a " careless or reckless manner " ( like letting their altitude wander all over the place while sitting with their arms crossed ) .
Aviation is very energy-hungry . While hydrogen is quite efficient in terms of energy per mass ( <URL> ) , it is awful in terms of energy per volume . Aircraft today use their wings for fuel storage , which helps to reduce bending loads and uses a volume unsuitable to transport payload . This will not work for hydrogen . The biggest problem is <URL> , and none of the solutions is really attractive : Kryogenic : Storing the hydrogen at a temperature where it is liquid ( below 20 ° K ) greatly reduces volume demands , but now you need to add insulation , and even then the energy per volume is only a quarter compared to hydrocarbons . This is used in rockets , because they can rely on extensive ground support before launch and use up the stuff in a few minutes . Airliners , however , need to store their fuel over tens of hours , so their hydrogen tanks will be much heavier and bulkier than those of rockets . Compressed : This avoids the energy input for liquefaction , but now you need a strong and heavy pressure vessel . Current <URL> uses up to 700 bar pressure , but even then the volume demand is higher than that of kerosene for the same energy content . Hydrides : Some metals like magnesium or <URL> can bind hydrogen and release it when heated . However , even in the most efficient compounds like sodium tetrahydroaluminate , only 7.4 % of mass is useable hydrogen , making this exquisitely unsuitable for mass-critical applications like aviation . Currently a <URL> looks the most attractive and has been tested widely . The first ( partially ) hydrogen powered aircraft was the LZ-127 Zeppelin which used a mixture of gasses of equal mass per volume as air ( <URL> ) to power its engines . Tupolev designed and flew the <URL> , the first hydrogen-powered heavier-than-air aircraft , in 1988 . The results showed that the principle worked , but could not compete with kerosene . Currently , <URL> , but none with the hope of widespread application - as it stands , binding hydrogen chemically to carbon will still give the best way of storage ( liquid and unpressurized ) for aviation . Hydrogen becomes the best source of energy only when combustion speed is critical , such as in supersonic combustion ramjets ( <URL> ) .
You will likely not see a price cut , but you also might not see a price increase . Seat pricing ( along with just about any other service in a competitive market ) is a complex function of actual cost to the company + desired profit + market factor . The last one is the difference between what they want to get and what the market is willing to pay . It is sometimes negative .
Yes , advanced flight directors and autopilots for helicopters can control the aircraft in all axes , and often they have modes for hovering built in , including maintain altitude , lateral veloctiy hold , hover , and/or autolevel . Hovering is difficult because it requires more complex controls than maintaining altitude in an airplane . Helicopters have a different set of control axes than fixed-wing aircraft . Fixed wing aircraft are controlled in pitch , roll , and yaw , with thrust as an extra variable . On a helicopter the flight path is controlled through cyclic ( roll and pitch ) , collective , and throttle , with the anti-torque pedals as well to control yaw . Hovering the aircraft requires controlling of the cyclic to keep the aircraft over its target with no lateral movement , and collective and throttle to maintain constant altitude , although the exact procedures are a little more complex . While not present on low-end helicopters due to a combination of complexity and lack of necessity , advanced autopilots for helicopters do exist . Like on other aircraft , there is a wide variety in autopilots between simple functions to maintain attitude ( often called one or two-cue guidance depending on the number of axes used ) to complex FMS-integrated three-axis modes ( which would be " three-cue " guidance ) . The FAA <URL> states , for example , that " The most advanced autopilots can fly an instrument approach to a hover without any additional pilot input once the initial functions have been selected . " On the Agusta AW139 helicopter that I 'm familiar with ( although I 'm not a pilot ) , they have several modes that provide this functionality : an altitude mode to maintain a given altitude an altitude acquire mode to smoothly reach a desired altitude an autolevel mode to level off at the end of an approach segment a lateral velocity hold mode to maintain slow lateral motion or no lateral motion more exotic search and rescue modes providing capabilites to transition to a hover , mark-on-target descents to predefined altitutdes , etc. . A traditional hover would be achieved by combining a low lateral velocity mode with a zero vertical speed mode like altitude or autolevel .
Searching the <URL> which also covers some international commercial flights for the key words " hack " , " hacked " do not provide any results related to hacked avionics . Likewise using the keyword " tampered " does not provide any results related to deliberate tampering with avionics ( mostly " tampered " wreckage ) . There is one individual , <URL> , who claims to have hacked into the In-Flight Entertainment System ( IFE ) to cause the aircraft to deviate from its course , however I find it highly suspicious . From a security perspective , I ca n't of any good reason to have the <URL> , however that is n't to say that there is n't some possible connection . The FBI certainly <URL> . So as of today there have not been any aviation accidents that are attributed to hacked or deliberately tampered-with avionics as a cause of said accident . The closest thing I think you will find is pilots loading incorrect flight plans , outdated ( or even pre-dated ) navigation data , and other cases of pilots not correctly using the equipment . I did read your original question and would like to clarify . Conspiracy theories , guesses , and internet speculation are not a replacement for hard evidence . In the case of MH-17 the wreckage was recovered and no evidence has been presented in the favor of hacking , while there is a lot of evidence of the shoot-down . Airliners even at cruising altitude can be shot down by surface to air missiles rather easily . As for MH-370 , until the wreckage is found we may never know ( and even if it is we may never know ) . Black boxes do not have an indefinite life span especially if they are under water . Until then theories of that flight being hacked are just as credible as those saying aliens abducted the entire flight and they are living on Neptune in specially constructed Igloos .
Are there any still commercial airplanes in use that are still steerable with complete loss of all electric systems ? Do some commercial airplanes still have mechanical backup steering mechanisms ? <URL> On most ( * ) Airbus aircrafts , In case of a complete loss of electrical flight control signals , the aircraft can be temporarily controlled by mechanical mode . This is called and is the lowest level of control law ( after Normal , Alternate and Direct Laws ) The aircraft can be steered : Pitch control is achieved through the horizontal stabilizer by using the manual trim wheel . Lateral control is accomplished using the rudder pedals . The pilots are notified with : A red MAN PITCH TRIM ONLY warning appears on the PFD . But : Both controls require hydraulic power . This means that if the aircraft looses BOTH electrical and hydraulic power , is no more controllable . Usually there are pressurised hydraulic reservoirs that allow to have a minimum of hydraulic power even if there is total loss of electrical power , but if there is substantial damage to the aircraft that has severed the hydraulic lines , this is no more applicable . ( * ) : beyond the A320 . Functionalities vary in <URL> : ( emphasys mine ) Primary Flight controls : Back-up Control Logical evolution of A320 / A340 / A340-600 family : Full Fly-By-Wire , with a " Back-up " as an additional precaution to keep control of the aircraft during temporary loss of : all Primary Flight Control computers all Electrical power supply A320 : full FBW controls , mechanical Back-up ( Pitch Trim &amp; Rudder ) A340/A330 : like A320 , additional Yaw Damper to improve Dutch Roll damping even in Back-up mode ( BYDU with hydraulic micro generator ) A340-600 : like A340 for pitch , Rudder becomes fully Electrical ( BPS + BCM : Back-up Power Supply + Control Module ) A380 : like A340-600 for Yaw control + BPS+BCM also power : Electrical Pitch Back-Up ( elevators ) linked to side-stick Electrical Roll Back-Up ( ailerons ) linked to side-stick Pitch Trim ( Wheel is replaced by Switches ) For the A380 , in particular : Active Stability Control functions : All levels of control laws ( Normal , Alternate , " Direct " and even Back-up ) include a Yaw and Pitch damping function
Some airlines do offer rear facing seats in business/first class . However , this is more to save space than for increasing safety . For example , British Airways offers a mix of forward and backward facing seats in its business class . <URL> Source : Forbes.com BAC <URL> offered rear-facing seats while it was in service . ( Note the visible cockpit ) . <URL> Source : airliners.net Armed forces of a number of countries use rear facing seats , like the RAF and USN in their C-2 Greyhounds . <URL> " <URL> " by Camera Operator : PH1 ( AW ) Shawn P. Eklund , USN - US Defense Visual Information Center photo DN-SD-03-16988 . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> .
I ca n't speak for all pilots everywhere , but I 've flown both sticks and yokes from both the right and left seat ( as well as the front and the back seat in tandem aircraft ) and found the adjustment process between switching from right to left hand to be very quick . I found getting used to sight picture differences to be a much bigger challenge and , like many others before me , sideloaded my first few landings ( along with climbing/descending during turns ) until I got the hang of it . Other pilots I 've spoken to about this have expressed the same feelings ; there is a learning curve , but it is by no means insurmountable . At any rate , flying is far more of a mental activity , with masterful physical coordination being surprsingly far down the list of innate qualities a pilot needs . And no , I am not nearly ambidextrous ; in fact , my coordination abilities with my non-dominant hand are hilariously poor , as anyone who 's ever watched my try to toss a tennis ball during a serve can attest .
Yes , there has : <URL> The war also saw the only confirmed air-to-air helicopter battles in the history of warfare , with Iraqi Mi-25s flying against Iranian AH-1J SeaCobras on numerous occasions . The first instance of these helicopter " dogfights " occurred on the first day of the war ( 22 September 1980 ) : two Iranian SeaCobras crept up on two Mi-25s and hit them with TOW wire-guided anti-tank missiles . One Mi-25 went down immediately , the other was badly damaged and crashed before reaching base . The Iranians won a similar air battle on 24 April 1981 , destroying two Mi-25s without incurring losses themselves . According to unclassified documents , Iranian pilots achieved a 10-to-1 kill ratio over the Iraqi helicopter pilots during these engagements and even engaged Iraqi fixed-wing aircraft . These would be pretty loosely classified as a " dogfight " since the Iranian AH-1J 's " crept up " on the Mi-25 's . It is doubtful that the Mi 's did any kind of evasive maneuvering or that the AH 's did any kind of aggressive pursuits , but it is air-to-air combat between helicopters . The page from the <URL> gives a little more detailed report : This war also saw the only confirmed air-to-air helicopter battles in history with the Iraqi Mi-25s flying against Iranian AH-1J SeaCobras ( supplied by the United States before the Iranian Revolution ) on several separate occasions . In November 1980 , not long after Iraq 's initial invasion of Iran , two Iranian SeaCobras engaged two Mi-25s with TOW wire-guided antitank missiles . One Mi-25 went down immediately , the other was badly damaged and crashed before reaching base . The Iranians repeated this accomplishment on 24 April 1981 , destroying two Mi-25s without incurring losses to themselves . One Mi-25 was also downed by an IRIAF F-14A . The Iraqis hit back , claiming the destruction of a SeaCobra on 14 September 1983 ( with YaKB machine gun ) , then three SeaCobras on 5 February 1984 and three more on 25 February 1984 ( two with Falanga missiles , one with S-5 rockets ) . After a lull in helicopter losses , each side lost a gunship on 13 February 1986 . Later , a Mi-25 claimed a SeaCobra shot down with YaKB gun on 16 February , and a SeaCobra claimed a Mi-25 shot down with rockets on 18 February . The last engagement between the two types was on 22 May 1986 , when Mi-25s shot down a SeaCobra . The final claim tally was 10 SeaCobras and 6 Mi-25s destroyed . The relatively small numbers and the inevitable disputes over actual kill numbers makes it unclear if one gunship had a real technical superiority over the other . Iraqi Mi-25s also claimed 43 kills against other Iranian helicopters , such as Agusta-Bell UH-1 Hueys . I do n't believe there has been any recorded instance since the Iran-Iraq war , but during that conflict there were multiple instances of helicopter-vs-helicopter battles .
<URL> has runway 14/35 with about 30 degrees between reciprocal approach paths :
It depends on the seat . Most modern seats , including the ACES II system common in US Fighter Jets , fall away from the pilot at a pre-determined altitude . <URL> Once out of the plane , a drogue gun in the seat fires a metal slug that pulls a small parachute , called a drogue parachute , out of the top of the chair . This slows the person 's rate of descent and stabilizes the seat 's altitude and trajectory . After a specified amount of time , an altitude sensor causes the drogue parachute to pull the main parachute from the pilot 's chute pack . At this point , a seat-man-separator motor fires and the seat falls away from the crewmember . The person then falls back to Earth as with any parachute landing . Generally , according to that link , this occurs at just over 100-200 feet above ejection height . However , if you eject at high altitude , such as Captain Scott O'Grady did ( 26,000 ft ) , the seat will fall away on a sensor ( either 10,000 or 18,000 feet , I do n't recall which ) . The chute may open automatically , or if it is not set to at that height , you can then pull the chute manually , or wait until its set height to open .
The first pressurized aircraft were piston powered , beginning as early as 1921 with a modified Airco DH .9 A containing a pressurized enclosure for the pilot . Throughout the 20s and 30s , pressurization systems developed in reciprocating powered aircraft with benchmarks like the <URL> being the first pressurized aircraft using bleed air from its super chargers to pressurize the cabin and the <URL> , the first pressurized airliner . World War II saw plenty of pressurized pistons like versions of the <URL> and the <URL> , as well as the <URL> . Postwar airliners were also pressurized like the <URL> , the <URL> and the <URL> were all good examples of this . With the introduction of jets , these quietly faded into obscurity . There are a few pressurized piston single and twins in operation today , though manufacturers did not make very many . Probably the most successful pressurized single is the <URL> series introduced in the 1980s and still in production today , in bother the form of the reciprocating PA-46-350 Mirage and the turbine powered PA-46-500 and -600 Meridian . In the late 70s and early 80s a number of manufacturers attempted to enter the pressurized entry cabin class single engine market . Cessna offered a Pressurized version of the <URL> called the P210 which is no longer produced but still popular with GA pilots today . Mooney , after finding marginal success with its pressurized <URL> from the 1960s , decided to produce a pressurized six seat cabin class airplane called the <URL> . It was stillborn due to financial pressures from Mooney 's new owners but the best technology from it was cannibalized in a ill-fated partnership with Aerospatiale ( now Daher Socata ) in Tarbes France to produce a single engine turbine airplane which eventually became the <URL> ( TBM stands for Tarbes Mooney ) . Even a few homebuilt piston singles have been pressurized . <URL> , <URL> , and piston versions of their <URL> are all pressurized and capable of nearly 300 KTAS at FL250 . More piston twins have been pressurized as well . Cessna produced a pressurized version of the <URL> called the P337G , as well as the <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Piper produced the <URL> . Beech produced the <URL> as well as a variant of the <URL> called the B88 . Rockwell produced the <URL> .
The other answers are good , but do n't touch on one key method ... Prevention . Small aircraft like a Cessna 172 have a limited cruise time , about 4 hours maximum . They are small enough that they get relatively uncomfortable after 2-3 hours , and if flying in turbulence or challenging conditions , flights can be relatively short . The best way I 've found to avoid the problem is to make sure to use the facilities as close to departure time as possible and to limit my intake of fluids in the hour or so leading up to a flight . The other option you have is to land and use the " facilities " . Many unmanned airports that have terminals ( like <URL> ) have a keypad access and facilities inside . Airports are pretty common and you usually are n't more than 30 minutes away from an airport with a bathroom . Just as a personal account of this , I was doing night training at my local field ( Class C ) and it was late ( 10:00 PM or so ) . One gentleman came on the radio and asked the tower if the FBO was open so he could use the facilities . The controller responded that the FBO was closed but he could taxi him to a quiet corner of the airfield for a few minutes . The pilot gladly took him up on the offer .
Global Starting from the top , we find the International Civil Aviation Organisation ( ICAO ) , which is a United Nations agency . ICAO was formed in 1944 when the Chicago Convention was signed , and initially had 52 member states . Today , 191 states worldwide are members of ICAO . The headquarter is in Montreal , Canada , and there are 7 regional offices . ICAO standards and other provisions are developed in the following forms : Standards and Recommended Practises ( SARPs ) : Technical specifications adopted by the Council of ICAO in order to achieve the highest practicable degree of uniformity in regulations , standards , procedures and organization within air navigation . Member states will conform to standards and will endeavour to conform to recommended practises . States are invited to inform ICAO of non-compliance . Procedures for Air Navigation Services ( PANS ) PANS comprise operating practises and material too detailed for SARPs . They are suitable for application on a worldwide basis . Member states are invited to publish differences between national procedures when considered important in the interest of safety . Regional Supplementary Procedures ( SUPPs ) SUPPs are supplementary procedures which are only valid within one of the ICAO regional office regions . For example , there are supplementary procedures published only valid within the European/North Atlantic region . Also worth mentioning are the International Telecommunication Union ( ITU ) and the World Meteorological Organization ( WMO ) , both of which function on an ( almost ) global level . Regional Below ICAO we have regional organisations . As an example , in Europe , the European Union ( EU ) provides legislations for its member states . Non-regulatory organisations , such as the European Aviation Safety Agency ( EASA ) , assist the EU in developing regulations ( but the EU , not EASA , is the regulatory authority ) . Some areas do not have regional regulators like the EU . In such areas , national regulations are handled directly by national regulators . Within the EU , countries also have national regulators -- but they are bound to base their regulations on EU regulations . National Below the regional level we have national regulators , commonly referred to as civil aviation administrations ( CAA ) . Each country will have their own CAA . One that you will often hear about is the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) , which is the national regulator in the USA . Generally speaking , a national regulator will be following framework regulations published by the national ministry of transport . The term ministry of transport is also sometimes applied to the departments or other government agencies administering transport in nations who do not employ ministers . The framework regulations from the ministry of transport are largely based on ICAO SARPs , PANS , SUPPs and any regional regulations ( such as EU regulations ) . The national regulator will publish detailed regulations , which are adapted by the air navigation service providers , as well as airlines , pilots , air traffic controllers , maintainence companies etc. etc. . The service providers , commonly referred to as ANSPs , are the organisations actually providing air navigation services , such as communication , navigation and surveillance equipment , meteorological services , air traffic management ( including ATC ) , aeronautical information and search and rescue . Most ANSPs operate within a single nation , but there are also multinational ANSPs , a few examples are ASCENA ( Africa and Madagascar ) , COCESNA ( Central America ) , EUROCONTROL ( Benelux ) and NUAC ( Sweden and Denmark ) . The service providers work together with the national regulators to develop detailed procedures , but do not ( usually ) have any regulatory authority .
As one of my instructors was fond of pointing out , there 's pretty much a regulation for everything -- <URL> which is pretty short and to the point as far as government regulations go . The big rules regarding kites/balloons kick in for a kite " over 5 pounds " or a balloon " over 6 feet in diameter / 115 cubic feet of gas capacity " , and are : You have to keep them at least 500 feet below any clouds . You have to keep them less than 500 feet above the ground . You must be at least 5 miles from the boundary of any airport . If your kite/balloon is going to be more than 150 feet above the surface you 're also supposed to coordinate with the closest ATC facility ( who would theoretically put out a NOTAM saying " John Doe is going to be flying a kite/balloon/thingy here , between these hours . Please try not to hit it . " ) There are also some lighting requirements ( if you fly the balloon/kite at night ) , and visibility requirements ( but really , who wants to fly a kite in less than 3 miles visibility ? That seems like pretty lousy kite weather . ) As a favor to your local pilot community ( and to prevent having your wayward kite dragged off by a Cessna on short final ) it 's probably best to observe the three " big rules " above regardless of the size of your kite - a 6-ounce piece of balsa and cellophane can still make a lot of people 's days more interesting if it appears in an unexpected location .
end question
start question
Do helicopters have trim ? How does it work ?
It depends on what you mean by trim . If you mean a a mechanism that allows the pilot to reduce the control forces in order to allow the helicopter to be flown hands off , then the answer is a qualified yes . If you mean a trim tab attached to a control surface , then the answer is no . Many airplanes which have a trim control do not use a trim tab . For example , Pipers have an anti-servo tab on the elevator , which the pilot uses to reduce control forces . Since helicopters are unstable -- meaning if you take your hand off the cyclic the aircraft will be in an unusual attitude within a second -- nothing short of electronics and actuators will allow a heli to be flown hands off . But every heli except the smallest ones , have considerable stick forces , which make them difficult to impossible to handle without some kind of assistance . The simplest setup is what you find on the original 4-seat R-44 Astro , which lacked hydraulic assist . On top of the cyclic you will find a 4-way " hat " switch which uses electrical actuators on the cyclic to reduce the control forces necessary to fly it . Larger helicopters have hydraulic assist , which allows the copter to be controlled with just two fingers . Inop hydraulics is considered an emergency . Big helicopters have a <URL> , which allows the helicopter to be flown hands off . An SAS is required for IFR flight .
Regarding the Specified IMU The referenced document describes the output protocol . SAEJ1939 CAN 29 bit identifier communication output -- the standard for the transportation segment -- allows more data to be transmitted than an RS-485 output You would need to use <URL> to decode the actual meaning of the output data . It is possible that Honeywell could provide you more information as part of purchasing the product . To use this to develop an AHRS solution you would still need pitot &amp; static inputs to derive pressure altitude and airspeed , as you wo n't be able to get those from the provided sensors . acceleration range up to ± 6 g , rotation rates up to ± 75 deg/s , inclination angles up to ± 50 deg and a sensor update rate from 1 Hz to 100 Hz I think the biggest hurdle you have here is that it will only measure inclination angles up to 50 deg . Aircraft can find themselves in > 50 deg pitch attitudes , which wo n't be registered by the IMU . This particular product ( Honeywell 6DF-1N6-C2-HWL ) seems to be designed for ground vehicle applications rather than aviation .
As far as I read in various documents about A320 and remember them correctly : There are three systems handling different parts of the primary flight control : ELAC ( elevator &amp; aileron computer ) controls pitch with elevators + trim and roll with ailerons . SEC ( spoiler &amp; elevator computer ) roll with spoilers and if ELACs fail , pitch with elevators + trim . FAC ( flight augmentation computer ) implements yaw damper . It 's command is added to the rudder command . In A320 rudder pedals have direct mechanical ( hydraulic ) link . The ELAC and FAC are composed of two identical units each , the SEC of three identical units ( but only two of the units are used as backup for ELAC ) . Each unit is composed of two dissimilar computer boards . One used i386 CPU , the other m86k CPU and each has independently developed software ( to minimize risk of the same software bug in both ) . One of the boards in each pair calculates the output and the other one verifies it . If the verification fails , that unit declares fault and disconnects . This is the primary way of detecting faults . I found no reference to comparing outputs of the identical units . Except for spoiler control there are only two output and the check board is more reliable way of detecting faults anyway . If the FAC fails , the aircraft wo n't maintain coordinated flight well and will tend to dutch roll , but pilots can compensate it with rudder input . If the SEC fails , the ELAC can handle control alone . Just spoilers wo n't be available . If the ELAC fails , the SEC can take over too . Turning with spoilers may cause some more drag , but not a big problem . If both ELAC and SEC fail , the pitch trim wheels have direct mechanical ( hydraulic ) link and roll can be controlled by rudder by taking advantage of the yaw stability . I do n't think it was ever needed in practice . Note , that is for A320 family ; which controls are available in case of failure of all flight computers is different in each Airbus type . As for data input , there are three ADIRUs ( air data and inertial reference unit ) and each flight computer takes input from all three and compares them . It needs two matching ( similar within some limit ) values to consider it trustworthy . If either more than one unit fails or no two agree , the flight computers degrade to alternate law or direct law . In alternate law , the system stops providing alpha protection ( stall ) , overspeed protection and , depending on what failed , other flight envelope protection ( there are two kinds , with different protections lost ) . In direct law it reverts to directly mapping the stick position to control surface position similar to mechanical controls . But most faults only result in alternate law except if all inertial references were lost ( that would be very difficult to handle as it would mean unreliable attitude indicators too , but I do n't think that ever happened either ; the inertial systems are very reliable ) . Alternate or direct law can also be entered if some control surface ( or it 's actuator ) fails and somewhere in the computer failure sequence , but I do n't remember the exact condition ( FACs calculate the limits , so if FACs fail , it will certainly degrade ) .
Birds regularly experience up 10-14 G according to this <URL> After looking at how birds and insects fly , scientists came up with the conclusion as to how birds cope with this is because : Animals will always have some advantages over machines , such as the ability to use their nervous systems to sense subtleties about the environment around them and alter their flight accordingly . further up near the top , it mentions comparisons between birds and high performance military aircraft , such as this : A Blackbird jet flying nearly 2,000 mph covers 32 of its own body lengths per second . But a common pigeon covers 75 of its body lengths a second . The roll rate of the aerobatic A-4 Skyhawk plane is about 720 degrees per second . The roll rate of a barn swallow is more than 5,000 degrees per second . Some military aircraft can withstand gravitational forces of 8-10 G ( Earth 's gravity is equal to 1 G ) . Many birds routinely experience G-forces greater than 10 G and up to 14 G . According to another <URL> the reason humans ca n't cope with high g 's as well is because : Every bit of our muscular-skeletal system is naturally crafted to deal with Earth 's gravity . Were you to travel to a planet that had a more significant gravity , a more massive planet with 5 G 's for example , you would either be unable to lift yourself off the ground , our the new weight-force would be so much that the air would be forced out of your lungs and your eyes would explode ( something gruesome for sure ) .
There 's an interesting article on the hazards at <URL> . The avoidance tactic mentioned in that article is to avoid rapid descents at low forward airspeed - this would seem sensible as that 's where the rotors will be exposed to their own downwash . And the preferred reaction also described there is to use the cyclic to fly forwards , to move into less disturbed air . ( I have heard that another cause of the condition is flying into narrow spaces among tall buildings , but unfortunately I have n't been able to find a reference . )
If they are being operated by the military , not much . Military operations can exempt themselves from the FARs ( as a matter of practice they do n't : When operating in the US National Airspace System they follow the same operational regulations we do , but as a matter of regulation they 're subject to the military 's rules for airworthiness , maintenance , etc. ) . Military pilots have a military pilot 's license ( which can be converted to an FAA license with a little paperwork ) , and the airworthiness and maintenance standards for active military aircraft are defined and managed by the branch of the service responsible for the aircraft . ( This is similar to , but legislatively distinct from , <URL> . ) This does n't mean the FAA is completely silent about military operations/aircraft : There is <URL> ( also available in an easier-to-read <URL> ) , which would be applicable to aircraft like the VC-25 ( " Air Force One " ) .
<URL> starting at about 1:20 in . <URL> . This is a <URL> as well . It really seems to depend on mode but its summarized here nicely , Climbing into the front seats of the Osprey definitely does not produce the most graceful entrance : it requires some contorting around the armrest , center console and overhead panel . The cockpit is dominated by four night-vision-goggle-compatible , six-inch-square multi-function displays that allow access to flight , navigation and system information . Mechanical flight controls consist of a center control stick , thrust control lever ( TCL ) and rudder pedals . The control stick functions as cyclic control while in conversion and helicopter modes , but steadily fades into a traditional airplane control stick as the nacelles transition to airplane mode . The TCL moves fore and aft just like an airplane throttle , unlike a helicopter collective . It does operate as a collective control , however , and becomes a traditional throttle during the transition . While this may seem counter-intuitive to helicopter pilots , it actually makes a lot of sense , because regardless of the mode of flight , youre always doing the same thing : controlling the thrust vector . Forward on the TCL in helicopter mode is the same as raising the collective in a helicopter , and vice versa . The first couple of hours for helicopter pilots transitioning to the Osprey highlight a bit of collective dyslexia , but very quickly it never becomes a further problem . A spring-loaded , knurled rotary knob on the TCL that lies in contact with the pilots left thumb controls the nacelles . Roll the thumbwheel aft and the nacelles rotate to the vertical , roll it forward and the nacelles continue to the downstops . The controls follow the hands on throttle and stick , or HOTAS , concept , and have all the controls necessary on them to control multiple systems on the airplane .
This technique is commonly called the <URL> - basically you smoothly trim the aircraft to full nose-up after the engine quits ( at a rate which wo n't cause it to " balloon " ) , or alternatively you establish best glide speed manually and then trim to full nose-up to relive the pressure on the yoke so you can concentrate on other things . I 'm not sure if this is a " certification requirement " ( I ca n't find anything about it in Part 23 's discussion of trim requirements , the old CAR 3 regulations , or in <URL> . Empirically I can tell you that it 's true for the loading configurations I 've tried it in , on the Piper PA-28 and Cessna 172 aircraft I 've flown . I have been lead to believe it is generally true for single-engine piston light aircraft : With no engine thrust full nose-up trim will produce something close to best glide speed . Before relying on it in any particular type of aircraft however I would perform a test at altitude by bringing the power to idle and verifying that you get something reasonably close to best glide speed . Note that there is a potential pitfall of the minimum trim glide when practicing engine out maneuvers : Upon recovery it is possible to cause a trim stall . As power and airspeed increases in the recovery elevator/trim authority is also increased , and full nose-up trim is generally adequate to cause the aircraft to stall in this situation , therefore special care must be taken to prevent the aircraft from pitching up to an attitude which would cause a stall .
There are actually a couple of different towing mechanisms out there . You 've got your traditional banner pick , with the ropes and the hooks and all that , but there 's also a new type of billboard mechanism that allows a tow aircraft to take off with the billboard already attached ; it unfurls as the aircraft gains altitude , and can eliminate a potential inefficiency in the process ( some days are worse for banner picks than others due to high winds , turbulence , etc. ) , but it limits the tow aircraft to some pretty small billboards and letter banners are pretty much a no-go . Talking about the traditional method of banner towing , there are a couple of things to cover . The banner/billboard setup on the ground - they will be attached to a tow rope ( usually about 200 feet long ) with a loop at the end . This loop is strung out between two poles a small distance apart . The goal of a banner pick is to have the hook pass between the poles , thru the loop ; do that and you will be able to pick the banner off the ground . The banner or billboard will be laid down upwind of the poles ( with the tow rope fully extended ) , so that the pick takes place into the wind ; the lower ground speed will help with timing and allow the banner or billboard to come off the ground more smoothly . A small windsock is a common addition next to the poles to make it easier for the pilot to spot them and to give some local wind information . The banners and billboards may be set up parallel to a runway ( usually the active runway ) , or there may be a designated spot elsewhere on the field . The hook itself is attached to aircraft with a tow hitch and it is possible to have multiple hitches on the same aircraft ( highest number i ever saw was 4 on a Piper Pawnee ) ; they get used sequentially i.e. drop the hook , pick up the banner , fly the banner , drop the banner , drop the next hook , pick up the next banner , fly said banner , and so on until you run out of hooks . Most of the time , hooks that are not in use will be tied down somewhere accessible to the pilot who will drop them manually . That Pawnee I mentioned earlier , however , had the hooks attached to hitches on the aircraft 's belly , from where they would be released with a switch , so there 's more than one way to skin a cat . The hooks are normally attached prior to engine start and the pilot needs to make sure there is no slack in the line , to avoid it becoming entangled in rudder or elevator cables ( more on that later ) , or other assorted bits and pieces of equipment . Banner tow procedures Take off is normal , but depending on your hook and cockpit setup , you may have to hold the hook in your throttle hand as you 're taking off ( this was the case with the Husky I towed in ) . Be careful not to hit anything with it . After climbing through about 50 feet AGL , side-step the runway , and drop the hook . Procedure varies depending on your setup , but we used to extend the arm holding the hook as far out the window as we could get , give a gentle tap on the rudder to kick the tail out of the way and toss the hook outwards and away from the airplane . Kicking the rudder was important due to the way the rudder control cables ran in the Husky ; we had one pilot who did n't and nearly wrecked when the rope got fouled around the cables , forcing a rudder hard-over once there was tension in the line after the pick - fortunately he was a big guy and the runway was sufficiently long that he was able to overpower the rudder and make a safe landing . Tossing the hook outwards is important lest it get caught up in the propwash and bang against the skin of the aircraft . Again , this happened ( was n't me though ) . Coming around for the banner pick - depending on where the banners are set up , you may end up flying almost a regular traffic pattern , but it usually happens at much lower altitudes ( 5-600 feet ) and the banner tow waiver may require that you avoid flying over populated areas to do so , so you may end up flying , say a right-hand pattern instead of your regular left . Either way you end up doing it , you want to end up downwind of the poles , similarly , if you will , to coming in for landing . The actual banner pick - this is where you 'll see a lot of variation . Some outfits will come in flat , just above the poles and pull up once they pass them ( unusual , but some do it that way ) , others will come in high and dive towards the poles , and pull up once past them ( it 's very pretty and dramatic , but not a lot of room for error IMO ) . We used to be a bit more sedate about it , and came in as if for a landing , with the goal of touching down at the top of the banner ( i.e. the end nearest to you ) . Obviously , you have to correct for crosswind , which you can do by shifting your line left or right depending on wind direction ; the goal is to place the hook , which is trailing behind you and getting blown about by the wind , between the poles . Either way you do it , once you pass the poles , you pitch up immediately to at least 45 degrees or so , and apply f
For conventional designs , the tail is composed of two parts : the horizontal tail and the vertical tail . They play a role in the trim and the manoeuvrability of the aircraft but at different levels . The horizontal tail is mainly used for longitudinal stability ( and trim ) while the vertical tails used for the lateral stability ( and trim ) . About Stability It is possible to talk of stability only after having defined an equilibrium point around which the stability is studied . An aircraft is in equilibrium if the forces and moments it experiences are balanced . Using a simple model for the longitudinal analysis , it can be decomposed in three relations called the trim equations . In order to keep it simple , it will be assumed here that the angle of attack and the flight path angle are zero . ( Note that the same reasoning can be achieved with non-zero values but the equations then become quite messy . ) Longitudinal Equilibrium These three equations are : $ $ L = mg $ $ $ $ T =D $ $ $ $ M = 0 $ $ where $ L$ is the total lift , $ mg $ is the weight of the aircraft , $ T$ is the thrust , $ D$ is the drag and $ M$ is the pitching moment around the centre of gravity of the aircraft . The second equation wo n't be studied further since it does not help to understand the role of the horizontal tail and its influence . Looking at the following picture , one can see that usually , the centre of gravity and the point where the lift applies ( called the aerodynamic centre ) are not the same . This means that the lift generated by the wing creates an induced moment around the centre of gravity that one should add to the already intrinsic pitching moment due to the main wing ( usually a pitch down moment for conventional airfoils ) . Knowing that , it is possible to rewrite the two equations of interest including the contributions from the main wing and from the horizontal tail . $ $ W+L _ t = L_w $ $ $ $ M_0 + bL_t = aL_w $ $ From these equations and the figure , it appears that the horizontal tail is used to generate a lift which induces a moment helping to balance the moments equilibrium and thus prevent the aircraft to spin on itself ( pitchwise ) . Drawback and Solution From both the figure and the equations it turns out that the lift contribution from the tail is usually negative , meaning that more lift from the main wing is needed to keep a trimmed ( or balanced ) aircraft . This drawback can be overcome by the use of a canard configuration instead . Lateral Stability The same can be done for the lateral equilibrium and stability but there it is the vertical tail that is used . It is symmetrical so that there is no yaw induced and if there is some side force experienced , it will create a moment in order to reduce the side-slip angle . Comparison of Lift Created by the Tail and Main Wing For a trimmed configuration , it is easy to see that the lift created by the main wing is more or less the one created by the tail plus the total weight of the aircraft , which gives an idea of the difference between the two forces .
The simple EGT gauges do not have numerical scales because you never lean to a temperature . You find the peak temperature , set the movable red needle to that temperature , and then lean to x degrees lean ( or enrichen to x degrees ) of peak temperature . Set the peak temperature at full throttle , full rich at a sea level airport . This system eliminates the concerns of calibration : Is the gauge calibrated , did the mechanic install the probe in exactly the right spot , etc. etc. .
In a constant speed prop , the prop control lever basically changes the speed of the prop ( it is not always running at the same speed as you indicate in your question , but rather once the speed is changed by the prop control lever , the governor keeps it at that speed ) . If power ( or airspeed ) is changed , the blade angle will automatically change in order to keep the prop turning at the same speed ( within the limits that it is designed for ) . Since adding power would normally increase the speed of the prop , the governor automatically changes the blade angle in order to keep it at the same speed . The same is true when power is reduced or airspeed is changed . Thrust is changed by engine power because , even though the prop is turning at the same speed , the angle of attack of the prop has been changed , which changes the amount of thrust . For more general information about how a constant speed prop works , see this question and answers : <URL>
For flights above FL410 , 2000 feet of separation is used . Which makes all flight levels odd numbered , → 410 , ← 430 , → 450 , ← 470 , → 490 , ← 510 , ... So for each direction as indicated above by arrows , it 'll be 4000 feet . The 2000 feet separation is because the higher up you go the less accurate an altimeter becomes , so it 's for safe separation . Even/odd is just an indication of direction in this case , which can be north/south or east/west , as explained here : <URL> <URL> ( <URL> ) Before <URL> came along , flights above FL290 were also separated by 2000 feet , compared to 1000 feet below FL290 . Between 1997 and 2005 RVSM was implemented in all of Europe , North Africa , Southeast Asia and North America , South America , and over the North Atlantic , South Atlantic , and Pacific Oceans . [ Between 2007 and 2011 China and Russia implemented RVSM . ] RVSM in essence is a reduction from 2000 to 1000 between FL290 and FL410 as long as the aircraft shows that its altimeters maintain their accuracy -- among other things such as an <URL> . Related : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Triple-redundant systems have four independent members , so if one fails , a two-to-one vote of the remaining three is still possible . However , often the term " triple redundant " is used when the system has only three members . And if all three disagree , two of them must be faulty already , so this is a case of multiple failures . In case of Airbus , besides the three main FCS computers two backup systems are available to help isolate the faulty one . Inside , each has two channels which run software written by a different team , run on a processor different to the one in the other channel and which are supplied by two different suppliers . This helps to reduce systematic errors , when all together would fail because of a common malfunction . <URL> Airbus flight control system diagram ( picture <URL> ) . Only the first system of each is expanded ; the boxes for system 2 and 3 look the same on the inside . Input is from the side sticks , and output goes to the hydraulic valves at the control surfaces . The voting happens first in the comparator step ( between the two channels ) and again in the filters ( between the single systems ) .
That ' cloudy stuff ' that you say is not ' turbulence ' , but condensed water vapor , the condensation being due to the sudden cooling caused by the adiabatic expansion of the air due to the aerodynamic disturbance caused by a passing blade ( or wing ) . That condensation can also be observed as wakes in landing aircraft , and in stationary revving props . It appears when the sudden expansion takes place in humidity conditions close to saturation .
The purpose of the roll posts is to let the pilot have some control authority in hover and stabilization , along with controlling aircraft attitude . Basically , the <URL> used in the VTOL F-35 has three components connected by drive shaft ( along with the engine ) : The LiftFan at the front Three-bearing swivel module ( 3BSM ) , which turns the nozzle through 95 $ ^ \ circ $ , and Two Roll posts on either side of the fuselage . <URL> F-35 Liftfan system ; image from <URL> Basically , some bypass air is directed towards the ( individually adjustable ) roll post ducts to ensure stability during hover , which is done by the onboard computer . In this image , you can see the roll post doors opening on outboard sides of the MLG doors . <URL> F-35 roll post doors opening ; image from <URL> The 3-Bearing Swivel Module ( 3BSM ) has three segments driven by two actuators ( the first one drives the first segment , while the second one drives the second segment directly and the third one through an angle gearbox ) . The three segments are cut at an angle , so that when transferring from forward flight to hover , the central segment ends up with its longer edge at the top ( so that their sections with maximum length are on the same side ) , thus ' summing ' the bearing offset angles to give a 95 $ ^ \ circ $ deflection of the jetpipe nozzle in the downward direction . From <URL> : The three-bearing swivel nozzle , 3BSN , design uses three segments of the engine exhaust duct cut on an angle and joined by two airtight circular bearings . External motors drive geared teeth in these segments to rotate them to create the deflected thrust . The forward and aft segments always stay aligned with one another in the rotational axis . The center segment rotates through 180 degrees relative to them . The third bearing is on the back of the engine aft of the turbine stage and provides the ability to swivel the nozzle thrust axis in yaw at any pitch angle . <URL> Three bearing swivel module , from <URL>
Most helicopter do n't carry radar ; there is no need for it . In civil helicopters radar is typically used for weather detection . In most use cases there is not real need for it because helicopters are usually operating under daytime Visual Flight Rules ( VFR ) and are staying away from clouds . For maritime helicopters that are used in search and rescue operations or off-shore operations on oil-rigs , weather is often installed . The typical location is in a radome in the nose of the helicopter . Examples are the <URL> or <URL> Military helicopters use radar for detecting objects . Depending on the nature of the mission the helicopter is designed for , the radar is underneath ( usually for navy operation , providing sea surface detection capabilities , see for example the navy version of the NH90 ) or on top of the rotor ( to look over obstacles such a hills / trees and provide fire control to their missiles ) . An example is the <URL> .
$ V _ { MO } $ is a " maximum operating speed " . It is one of many " <URL> " defined for an aircraft that limit operation at various flight phases . All V-speeds are <URL> ¹ . The $ V _ { MO } $ is the maximum permitted speed for the aircraft . This includes a safety margin , so pilots can reasonably fly near that speed . Exceeding it is not immediately dangerous , but as it reduces safety margins , is an incident that should be investigated . There is another speed , $ V _ { NE } $ , the " never exceed speed " , which is somewhat higher and which marks the point where things start to get dangerous . When the aircraft exceeds $ V _ { NE } $ , <URL> may develop that will destroy the aircraft and/or important parts may break off as the <URL> becomes higher than what they are designed for . Also these speeds have their <URL> counterparts ² , $ M _ { MO } $ and $ M _ { NE } $ . At high altitude , the same indicated airspeed ( IAS ) corresponds to much higher true air-speed , since indicated airspeed decreases with pressure , while the same Mach number corresponds to slightly lower true air-speed , since speed of sound only depends on temperature . So at high altitudes , the Mach limits are reached first while at low altitudes the IAS limits are . Exceeding the $ M _ { NE } $ has different effect , though also dangerous . Above that speed flow separation occurs above the wing due to supersonic speed of the flow . This leads to loss of lift and significant down-pitching moment ( a.k.a <URL> ) , which aircraft not designed for supersonic flight may not have enough elevator authority to compensate . ¹ The airspeeds are given as <URL> , the speed measured by pitot probes , so they can be directly compared to the indication in cockpit ( aircraft with <URL> ( " glass cockpit " ) usually correct those measurement errors that can be estimated , showing so called <URL> ) . However it may not be just a simple number but may be tabulated depending on other parameters . In particular $ V _ { NE } $ and $ V _ { MO } $ may depend on altitude , because <URL> depends on <URL> and at lower density ( due to lower pressure at altitude ) the same TAS corresponds to lower <URL> / <URL> / <URL> . ² Mach number is true airspeed as fraction of speed of sound . In this case the limiting factor is formation of shockwaves due to the flow speed locally exceeding speed of sound around some parts of the aircraft .
( Note : This answer is tailored to the U.S. / FAA , because that is what I 'm familiar with . All the citations and references are FAA materials . If anyone has any tips on possible international differences , please let me know and I 'll edit them in . That said , I believe the descriptions I give are fairly consistent across the world , even if the FAA reg citations do n't directly apply . ) In what situations does ATC ask for ident , and is it ever required by procedure ? Generally , " ident " is used to help a controller identify an aircraft 's secondary radar ( transponder ) return . By asking the pilot to " squawk ident , " the controller can ensure that the aircraft he/she is talking to matches the radar target he thinks is that aircraft . It can also be used for communication , to allow a pilot to respond if their radio transmitter has failed . Specifically : It is a method to allow a controller to identify an aircraft on radar , per section 5-3-3 of <URL> : When using only Mode 3/A radar beacon to identify a target , use one of the following methods : a. Request the aircraft to activate the " IDENT " feature of the transponder and then observe the identification display . For lost communication , per section 10-4-4 of <URL> : Take the following actions , as appropriate , if two-way radio communications are lost with an aircraft : c. Attempt to re-establish communication by having the aircraft use its transponder or make turns to acknowledge clearances and answer questions . Request any of the following in using the transponder : 1 . Request the aircraft to reply Mode 3/A " IDENT . " This last scenario is common when experiencing radio failures . If ATC suspects that you might be able to hear them but not to talk back , they might say something like " Cessna 12345 , if you can hear me , squawk ident . " If you reply by pressing the IDENT button , they can then issue you further instructions and ask you to acknowledge those instructions by pressing IDENT again . What does the transponder actually do in this mode ? In normal operation , every time the transponder receives an interrogation from a ground station , it replies with a data block containing certain pieces of information . <URL> : The encoded pressure altitude ( for Mode C transponders ) A 12-bit identification code ( this is the 4-digit code you select in the cockpit ) A single extra bit for the " ident " flag When you push the IDENT button in the cockpit , the transponder sets that extra " ident " bit in its reply data . Anytime the transponder is interrogated while IDENT is active ( for a set duration of time after you press the button in the cockpit ) , its reply data block will have the IDENT bit set . ATC computer systems notice this and cause the IDENT to be shown on the controller 's radar display . What does the controller see on their screen ? It depends on the type of radar system in use . Generally the radar target will either blink , its symbol will change ( or " blossom " ) , or an indication such as " ID " will blink in the aircraft 's data block ( where the callsign is shown ) . The AIM has some schematic pictures that show what an IDENT looks like on an ARTS-III scope ( an older system still in use at some TRACONs ) . See <URL> and <URL> . I will try to find some pictures of other radar systems such as those used at ARTCCs and newer TRACONs . Does it depend at all on either the code or the mode the transponder is currently set for ? The code does n't matter . The IDENT flag is an extra bit in the transponder 's reply data that 's independent of the 12 bits used for the code . Obviously the IDENT will only be observed if the transponder is operating ( not OFF or in a STANDBY mode ) . But the IDENT works in any mode used by normal civilian transponders ( Modes A , C or S ) .
With a pressure fueling system , rather than fueling through holes in the tops of the wings , a fuel truck or fuel hydrant is used to push fuel into the airplane through a fitting at about 50 psi . The fuel fitting is generally in the right wing . A fueling control panel allows the fueler to fill the tanks to the amount called out by the flight plan . These large aircraft still have an overwing fueling port for those times when the pressure fueling system is inoperative . There is nothing to prevent fuel vapors from escaping to atmosphere .
end question
start question
Is there any " instrument take-off system " ?
While there is not a specific physical system dedicated to instrument departures per se , there are procedures that rely upon instrument flight rules ( IFR ) navigation equipment that ensure obstacle clearance when departing from an airport in instrument meteorological conditions ( IMC ) . From the <URL> 5-2-8 . Instrument departure procedures are preplanned instrument flight rule ( IFR ) procedures which provide obstruction clearance from the terminal area to the appropriate en route structure . There are two types of DPs , Obstacle Departure Procedures ( ODPs ) , printed either textually or graphically , and Standard Instrument Departures ( SIDs ) , always printed graphically . All DPs , either textual or graphic may be designed using either conventional or RNAV criteria . RNAV procedures will have RNAV printed in the title , e.g. , SHEAD TWO DEPARTURE ( RNAV ) . ODPs provide obstruction clearance via the least onerous route from the terminal area to the appropriate en route structure . ODPs are recommended for obstruction clearance and may be flown without ATC clearance unless an alternate departure procedure ( SID or radar vector ) has been specifically assigned by ATC . Graphic ODPs will have ( OBSTACLE ) printed in the procedure title , e.g. , GEYSR THREE DEPARTURE ( OBSTACLE ) , or , CROWN ONE DEPARTURE ( RNAV ) ( OBSTACLE ) . Standard Instrument Departures are air traffic control ( ATC ) procedures printed for pilot/controller use in graphic form to provide obstruction clearance and a transition from the terminal area to the appropriate en route structure . SIDs are primarily designed for system enhancement and to reduce pilot/controller workload . ATC clearance must be received prior to flying a SID . All DPs provide the pilot with a way to depart the airport and transition to the en route structure safely . Pilots operating under 14 CFR Part 91 are strongly encouraged to file and fly a DP at night , during marginal Visual Meteorological Conditions ( VMC ) and Instrument Meteorological Conditions ( IMC ) , when one is available . The following paragraphs will provide an overview of the DP program , why DPs are developed , what criteria are used , where to find them , how they are to be flown , and finally pilot and ATC responsibilities . There are many details involved in actually using these procedures to make safe departures in IMC . The <URL> is an excellent resource for pilots who want to review these procedures , what they provide and how to use them correctly . Here is an example of an ODP from my home airport , KCRG . There are some very tall towers less than 10 nautical miles from the airport . They are enormous and easy to avoid under visual conditions , but when IMC prevails these procedures are absolutely life-saving with such large obstructions nearby . They are taken from this <URL> . Here is an example of a SID . These are always graphically depicted and will usually be found at larger airports . Here are pages <URL> and <URL> of the full SID .
According to <URL> : Almost every frequent flyer has encountered this sound at one time or another . [ ... ] It happens on twin-engine Airbus models : the A320 series ( includes the subvariants A319 and A321 ) and the larger A330 . [ ... ] What you hear is a device called the power transfer unit , or PTU , which is designed to ensure adequate hydraulic pressures during single-engine operations . [ ... ] Since it is activated only when the pressure falls below a certain level , the PTU cycles on and off , on and off , on and off . [ ... ] Some Boeing aircraft also employ a PTU , but the operation is slightly different and it does n't bark like a dog . Another noise peculiar to Airbus models is a shrill , prolonged whine heard at the gate prior to departure and again after landing . This is an electric hydraulic pump used to open and close the cargo doors .
Pilots do not determine the official MTOW of an aircraft . MTOW will be estimated by the manufacturer during the design of the aircraft based on the required payload of the aircraft and the design configuration . It will be adjusted based on the detail design of the aircraft to comply with regulation requirements . <URL> Additional operating limitations . ( a ) Additional operating limitations must be established as follows : ( 1 ) The maximum takeoff weights must be established as the weights at which compliance is shown with the applicable provisions of this part ( including the takeoff climb provisions of § 25.121 ( a ) through ( c ) , for altitudes and ambient temperatures ) . MTOW affects many other aspects of an aircraft 's performance . It will affect stopping distance after a rejected takeoff , takeoff performance ( including engine failure ) , climb performance , taxi weights , and many structural aspects . MTOW will be chosen so that the requirements for all of these conditions are met . This is why new engines or winglets which improve performance will allow a higher MTOW . Of course , as always , the pilot has the authority to set their own personal MTOW more conservatively , if they feel it is necessary for safer operation of the aircraft .
I know you asked specifically about runway versus helipad departures , but I thought I would lay out all the options available to the heli pilot , and you can see what all the choices are . There are three different areas on an airport that a helicopter can operate from : Non-movement area -- this is the area of the airport that is not controlled by the ground or tower controller . It often consists of aircraft parking areas or an area leased by a tenant . It is separated from a movement area by this the marking below . Helipads may be found in non-movement areas , such as the Coast Guard helipads at SFO and JFK . <URL> Movement area -- this is the area of the airport controlled by a ground controller , and separated from the runway area by this marking : <URL> . Helipads can be found in movement areas . Runway area -- this is the area controlled by the tower controller , and contains the runways used for landing and departing traffic . This picture from KHWD shows the three areas : <URL> Regardless of which area is used , almost heli departures from towered airports are coordinated directly with the tower controller because the aircraft enters the controllers airspace . At non-towered airports , helis operate out of the flow of fixed-wing traffic , and need to self-announce like any other aircraft . Additionally , helicopters can make three different kinds of departures : max performance take off -- which begins with a near-vertical segment , and then transitions to a horizontal . This is typically used from a confined area , and looks something like this : <URL> normal takeoff -- this begins in an in-ground effect hover with a horizontal segment until translation lift is assured , then transitions into a climb : <URL> running takeoff -- when there is insufficient power to begin with an in-ground effect hover , then the helicopter may begin its departure by sliding ( skids ) or rolling ( wheels ) along the ground , until translational lift can be obtained , then transitioning into a normal takeoff : <URL> The choice of departure area and departure type are for the most part independent , but they are obviously linked based on performance and obstacles . The departure area is an operational decision . When the helicopter is operating from a remote part of an airport , the pilot will often make a departure from a non-movement area ( helipad or ramp ) so she does n't have to taxi to the runway . If the helicopter is a passenger flight , such as air-taxi , it will most likely operate from the runway or a helipad in the movement area . The departure type is a performance decision , based on obstacles , weather , weight , and available power . Hot &amp; high departures might require a running take-off . Lightly loaded twin-engine copters in normal weather can safely make high-performance departures over obstacles in the desired direction of flight .
As others above have stated , the Kamov KA-50 family is fitted with an ejection seat . First the blades are separated from the blade sleeves , which remain attached to the mast ( rotor hub ) . a few fractions of a second later , the conventional upwards firing ejection seat is launched , using extraction rockets tied to cables to drag the seat clear of the airframe . This cutaway image shows it to reasonable effect . ' 46 ' indicates where the blade separates from the sleeve . The little sketch of the smoke on the lower right blade shows the separation , and the ' 18 ' and ' 19 ' show the extraction rocket . <URL> Digital Combat Simulations 's ( DCS ) line of computer simulations models the ka-50 , including the ejection seat . I 'm sure there 's video from the game online somewhere . <URL>
There are three different schools of thought there , and one can be selected based on the capabilities and characteristics of the tailwheel aircraft you are flying . Fly the tail off the ground : After achieving full power during the start of the takeoff roll , apply forward stick pressure until the tail lifts off and the aircraft assumes a level attitude on the main gear , then hold that pitch attitude for the rest of the takeoff roll . This technique can be done in most underpowered taildraggers and is useful for short field takeoffs and landings as it minimizes parasite drag and flat plate area during the takeoff roll . It will require a healthy bootful of right rudder to counter the change in P-Factor as well as gyroscopic precession from the propeller . Let the tail fly off the ground : After applying full power with full aft stick deflection , neutralize pitch input to the stick and continue the takeoff roll . As speed builds , the tail will lift off the ground naturally . This is the recommended technique when flying high performance tailwheel planes like WWII fighters , etc. . where good rudder authority is needed to counter P-Factor changes and precession . 3-point takeoff : Apply full power and hold full aft stick as well as additional right rudder to counter for P-Factor . As speed builds in the takeoff roll , gradually ease up on stick pressure but hold just enough to keep the tailwheel on the runway . As the airplane lifts off the runway care must be taken to quickly adjust elevator pressure to hold a gradual climb and prevent rapid pitch up and stall . I once flew an MX2 with an oversized prop offering only about two inches of ground clearance resting on the mains in level attitude . We were taught to only do 3-point takeoffs and landings and specifically warned not to attempt anything else to prevent a propstrike .
I have no idea about ICAO but as far as I can tell from the <URL> , there 's no general requirement to have any runway or approach lighting at all ( see below for an example ) , although some specific approach types ( like CAT II/III ILS ) do require it . Where there is lighting , it 's used to reduce the visibility minimums , but the calculations assume no approach lighting by default . This is from 3-1-2 ( c ) ( emphasis mine ) : Approach lighting systems extend visual cues to the approaching pilot and make the runway environment apparent with less visibility than when such lighting is not available . For this reason , lower straight-in ( not applicable to circling ) visibility minimums may be established when standard or equivalent approach lighting systems are present . The TERPS concept seems to be that the approach minimums can be reduced depending on the lighting type available . Section 3-3-2 has an example of calculating visibility minimums when there are no approach lights available . As for a specific example , <URL> has three approaches ( 2 RNAV ( GPS ) , 1 VOR ) but - as far as I can tell - no lighting of any kind . The chart supplement says : Rwy 02 -- 20 marked with rwy cones . Rwy 13 -- 31 marked with cones and OTS lgts . Many missing . As you might expect , the approaches are not authorized at night :-) Finally , part 121/135 passenger flights ca n't land at night unless the runway is lit ( <URL> , <URL> ) , so any airport that handles those flights will have runway lighting at least , and almost certainly approach lighting too .
You would not attempt this . Aircraft are certified to climb with engines inoperative after V1 , they would just climb to a holding altitude and run the checklist . They would rather not attempt to any cruise altitude . Running the checklist you would determine if you are above the maximum landing weight ( MLW ) and decide to burn or if able , to dump fuel . Dumping fuel during the takeoff/rotation phase is not advisable to be honest , as you would leave a contaminated runway behind . Sure , most of the fuel will evaporate , but there will be a contamination nonetheless . I will quote <URL> 's comment shamelessly for another item to consider : According to <URL> a 747 can dump 6000 pounds of fuel per minute . Given that ( from what I found ) it typically carries at least 200,000 pounds , and has an MTOW of over 800,000 pounds , it seems unlikely you 'd dump enough fuel fast enough to make any difference .
Yes , the required obstacle clearance is based on this minimum performance : Cross the departure end of the runway ( DER ) at at least 35ft AGL ( that 's above the DER , not above the airport reference elevation ) Climb to 400ft above the DER before turning Maintain a climb of at least 200ft per nautical mile ( FPNM ) until reaching minimum IFR altitude The minimum IFR altitude is 1000ft above obstacles , or 2000ft in mountainous areas . This is explained in detail in <URL> ( starting on page 1-14 ) . The FAA carries out an assessment to see if the airport needs a specific procedure ( ODP or SID ) and if it does n't then the standard clearance performance above applies : If an aircraft may turn in any direction from a runway within the limits of the assessment area and remain clear of obstacles that runway passes what is called a diverse departure assessment , and no ODP is published .
The simple fact is that an unintended gear deployment could be catastrophic , as it has a profound impact on the flight dynamics of the aircraft ( one of the reasons there are warnings for both retraction and extension ) . The benefits would be marginal as checking gear down is part of the bread-and-butter procedures for all retractable gear aircraft . Keep in mind adding some automation to an aircraft has far ranging impact , just off the top of my head adding automatic gear mechanism would require : Standardization of the automation Modification of procedures Training of pilots , and then re-certification of pilots Training of maintenance crews , and then re-certification of the crews Possible change to the maintenance schedule of aircraft Certification of the new system by the regulator and you would still need a backup / redundant system ; and now you are back to the manual controls . I can imagine this being implemented in remote piloted or autonomous aircraft though ; as an additional workload relief .
There 's also the " Snowbird " model , like <URL> and <URL> , which primarily fly vacationers and snowbirds between sunbelt ( San Diego to Florida ) and the Carribean , and the Northern snowbelt states ( Maine through Washington State , and Canadian border cities ) . They are low-cost carriers , with few or no code shares , no connections , no free amenities , and prices that decline as the date gets closer . Here is Sun Country 's route map . Note that nearly all their flights are between Minneapolis ( or Dallas ) and vacation destinations . Here is a part of Allegiant 's route map , showing cities with flights to Phoenix/Mesa , AZ. . They have more routes than are shown here , but all their routes have one end in one of the " sun belt " cities marked in orange .
For a transport category airplane with 20 more more seats the minimum aisle width is 15 inches from the floor to a height of 25 inches , and 20 inches width above a height of 25 inches . § 25.815 Width of aisle . The passenger aisle width at any point between seats must equal or exceed the values in the following table : 1A narrower width not less than 9 inches may be approved when substantiated by tests found necessary by the Administrator .
Generally speaking a pilot can ( physically ) do whatever they want : ATC does n't have a remote control . If you push the throttles forward and pull back on the yoke you will take off , no matter what mean things the folks in the tower are shouting at you over the radio . Practically speaking doing so can get you into trouble : You may be met in the air by planes with more guns than yours , or projectiles from the ground may be fired in such a way as to intersect your flight path ( " You might get intercepted or shot down by very annoyed military types . " ) -- even if that does n't happen you may face administrative or civil action for ignoring ATC instructions in the jurisdiction where you did this . I 'm not sure what the ATC policies are in Turkey , but the US FAA has a phrase specifically for this : ( you 'll find it in <URL> ) . The emergency authority of a pilot is also recognized worldwide ( at least in ICAO states - you 'll find it in Annex 2 , 2.3.1 , conveniently quoted <URL> ) , so if the pilot in command deems that remaining on the ground constitutes an emergency they can violate regulations to the extent necessary to meet the emergency ( i.e. forego getting a clearance and take off even if ATC is saying not to ) .
Comments under the video say clearly : According to Transportation Safety Board ( Canada ) report # AO7W0128 , Take-off weight did not meet performance capabilities of the Aircraft . Calculations to clear 50ft obstacle were not performed . Southeast end of runway , not clearly marked . Take-off was attempted in an up slope direction with a slight tailwind which increased the necessary distance to clear a 50ft obstacle . Center of gravity ( CG ) calculations were off and found to be too far forward .
Spoilers lower lift and increase drag on the side where they are deployed . Symmetric spoiler deployment , therefore , is for slowing down . Asymmetric deployment not only creates a ( small ) rolling moment , but primarily a yawing moment which helps to counteract the <URL> created by ailerons , especially at the high lift coefficient at takeoff and early climb . Spoiler deployment increases pressure ahead of the spoiler due to the slowing of local flow ahead of the obstruction caused by the spoiler , and it creates a local flow separation at and behind the spoiler , which in turn lowers the local pressure . Only the first effect lowers lift , but both create drag . The main effect of a limited spoiler deflection , therefore , is to increase drag .
Because when taking off you go from 0 vertical speed to a positive rate of climb all by way of the wings ( the force on the gear will decrease over time to 0 when airborne ) . But while landing you will go from negative rate of climb to 0 vertical speed . Most of that will be absorbed by the gear ( the force on the gear will spike and then settle to only the weight of the aircraft ) . After touching down there is also the braking force exerted on the gear which is proportional to the mass of the aircraft . It is that spike + braking force that the engineers are worried about when calculating max landing weight .
Let 's see what the savings are : A mid-sized airliner carries maybe 20 % of its mass in fuel . This fuel has an energy density of 43 MJ per kg . Of that chemical energy at most 40 % is converted into useable work . Heck , let 's make this 25 % so we are really conservative . Thus , the energy for the whole trip is $ $ E _ { \ text { trip } } = 0.2 \ cdot 0.25 \ cdot 43,000,000 \ , \ frac { \ mathrm { J } } { \ mathrm { kg } } \ cdot \ text { mass } = 2,150,000 \ , \ frac { \ mathrm { J } } { \ mathrm { kg } } \ cdot \ text { mass } $ $ Now assume that this airliner saves the energy to accelerate from 0 to 150 knots by using a catapult . This energy is $ $ E _ { \ text { accel } } = \ frac { v _ { \ text { takeoff } } ^ 2 - v_0 ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot \ text { mass } = 2,977.35 \ , \ frac { \ mathrm { m } ^ 2 } { \ mathrm { s } ^ 2 } \ cdot \ text { mass } $ $ Since I picked metric units , conversion is easy : $ 1 \ , \ mathrm { J } = 1 \ , \ mathrm { Ws } = 1 \ , \ frac { \ mathrm { kg } \ cdot \ mathrm { m } ^ 2 } { \ mathrm { s } ^ 2 } $ . I use $ \ text { mass } $ for the take-off mass so you do n't think it is the unit meter . Now let 's put that into proportion : $ $ \ frac { E _ { \ text { accel } } } { E _ { \ text { trip } } } = 0.001385 $ $ Using the catapult saves 0.1385 % of the energy needed to fly a typical airliner trip . Granted , it is more for short-range flights , but still insignificant to what is needed to move the aircraft 10 km up into the sky and then for a couple of hundred miles through the air at Mach 0.8 . To make a catapult launch feasible , you need to add some strength to the nose gear and the forward fuselage . The typical landing gear fraction of the take-off mass is about 3 % , and the nose gear is 10 % - 15 % of that , so $ m _ { \ text { nosegear } } = 0.00375 \ cdot \ text { mass } $ . Relative to the nose gear mass , the fuel saving from using a catapult launch is $ \ frac { 0.0003462032 } { 0.00375 } = 0.37 $ or 37 % of the nose gear mass . Thus , the reinforcements need to add less than 37 % to the mass of the nose gear . If we assume an acceleration of 1/2 g = 4.903 m/s ² , the take-off run to accelerate to 150 kts is 607 m. I expect that even this moderate acceleration ( which requires a pulling force of half of the lift at take-off ) would translate into much higher mass increases than those 37 % of the nose gear mass .
In general , helicopters require less power while flying forward ( or backwards ) compared to hover as translational lift ( of Effective Translational Lift , ETL ) is produced . Even though the blades are providing lift by rotation , the airspeed experienced by the blades is different if wind is present . For example , if there is headwind $ v $ , the advancing blades will have an airspeed of $ r \ omega + v $ , while the retreating blade will have an airspeed of $ r \ omega - v $ . As lift is proportional to square of airspeed , the implications are obvious . For this reason , it is preferable to take off into the wind , rather than take off vertically . <URL> Note that the power required is same for headwind or tailwind . However , tailwind landing ( or takeoff ) has some disadvantages from stability and power management point of view that is it generally discouraged , like : In case of landing in tail wind , it is very difficult to abort landing and re-gain forward airspeed . Moving from negative speed to forward speed initially decreases the air speed the main rotor experiences , and the Power Curve shows an initial increase in Power Required . As the helicopter accelerates from negative ( ground ) speed , the main rotor system loses translational lift before it goes through zero airspeed . As a result , the power required increases , which requires increased pedal application and tail rotor power , precisely when the power requirement is high . If there is a power failure , the chances of safe landing is reduced . There is more risk of running out of directional control . In case there is a tailwind , the helicopter vertical tail ( and fuselage ) may align try to align with the wind , resulting in uncommanded yaw . If not corrected with proper pedal input , this may lead to loss of control . In case of landing , the possibility of brownout or whiteout conditions is more in case of tailwind .
This is for safety reasons . Take-Off and Landing are the two most critical phases of flight and thus , every additional step to ensure survivability , be it even just adjusting the light , is taken . The interior lights or cabin lights are adjusted to match the exterior environment , so that in case of an emergency , especially if the interior lights fail , your eyes are already accustomed to the light setting and you do not require additional valuable seconds for adjustment to a possibly darker or brighter environment . The lights are usually adjusted at dusk , night or dawn to match the exterior environment . <URL> If the cabing lights do not fail during an emergency , the dimmed light also makes it easier to identify the " EXIT " signs which illuminate and make the guidance lighting on the floor easier to follow . The bright emergency lighting is more prominent to identify when the cabin light is dimmed , saving valuable seconds as the aircraft is evacuated . This also ties in with having to raise the blinds on the windows . The blinds need to be raised during take-off and landing irrespective of the outside light situation , however , with a darker cabin , any outside light source , especially from fires or other hazards is easier to identify by the crew , making the decision process of whether one side could be inappropriate to use for evacuation faster , e.g. fire on port side -- > no evacation on that side . The blinds are therefore raised to allow a better view for cabin crew of the outside area and external aircraft parts , such as engines , wings , etc. . See also this related question : <URL>
Given how few bounding criteria you have in your question , the general result is For fixed wing aircraft : your ground speed will be significantly higher than if you 'd taken off heading into the same wind , and thus you 'll tend to use up more runway before lifting off . Example : with a take off speed of 100 kts , going into or downwind is the difference between 90 knots or 110 knots ground speed before reaching take off speed when the wind down the runway is 10 knots . This difference becomes more pronounced as wind speed increases ; it 's a differential of 2 x wind speed . With a long enough runway it wo n't matter in terms of " taking off before running out of runway . " On a short field it may matter a great deal . For Rotary Wing aircraft : you may need a bit more power to hover when lifting off with a tail wind . <URL> : Headwinds are the most desirable as they contribute to the greatest increase in performance . { snip } When taking off into a headwind , effective trans lational lift is achieved earlier , resulting in more lift and a steeper climb angle . When taking off with a tailwind , more distance is required to accelerate through translational lift . For a variety of aircraft types , if the tail wind is high enough your manual will recommend against/prohibit down wind takeoffs , but that varies enough between models and types that a general answer ca n't encompass all of the variations .
end question
start question
How do visiting foreign pilots access Duats or Duat ?
I 've just arrived back home after being in the US for some months . I was required to have a FAA class 3 medical , because I did some flight training there , and luckily the one I 've received is also is a student pilot certificate with the number on it you require to register for DUAT . Some of my colleges did n't have this number and so they were not able to register until getting there FAA pilot certificate . This will be send to your home adress , most probably when you are home again . In the US you 'll only get a temporary certificate ( peace of paper ) . The only number you 'll find on it is your current license number . Now what you can try : One of my colleges simply wrote an e-mail to duats helpdesk where he described his situation , giving all the information they require on their registration page with his foreign license number and attached a photography of his license and a proof that he 'll be in the us for the next months . Less than 24 hours later he had a log-in . We had a student Visa , but if you do n't have something like this , just try it without it , or take a photography of something else looking trustworthy . Good luck and enjoy your trip ! Edit : I was just looking for the e-mail address , but for any reason my browser refuses to load duats website . As far as I remember , you 'll find it at the registration page . If someonewho can access the website likes to add the e-mail adress please feel free to do so , I would appreciate your help .
There are a few ways that pilots are aware of potentially turbulent areas . Eyesight The most obvious way is just by looking outside and observing the sky . Large billowing clouds , called cumulus clouds , indicated pockets of unstable air ( the clouds are rising because the air under them is as well ) . If the pilots must fly through these clouds then its a safe bet that there will be some turbulence . Weather Radar Just like using your eyes , except the radar can see further through haze and other clouds . Typically this is useful for finding embedded thunderstorms , but it can also be useful to find areas of potential turbulence . Communication Pilots talk . Both to each other and to air traffic controllers . En route controllers frequently ask pilots for " PIREPS " ( pilot reports ) , to build an accurate picture of the flight conditions at different altitudes . Often commercial aircraft will request to change altitudes or deviate around weather / turbulence , so it is in the best interest of the controller to know ahead of time where the bad flight conditions are , and have a game plan of how to route traffic . This makes it much easier for the controller to route traffic , rather than getting request after request from individual aircraft .
Yes . <URL> covers this ( my emphasis ) : ( b ) Required pilot certificate for operating a foreign-registered aircraft within the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of foreign registry within the United States , unless -- ( 1 ) That person 's pilot certificate or document issued under § 61.29 ( e ) is in that person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate ; and ( 2 ) Has been issued in accordance with this part , or has been issued or validated by the country in which the aircraft is registered . So a US license ( i.e. one issued under part 61 ) is allowed as an alternative to a foreign license for operating the foreign aircraft . The other country could have rules on this too , but I have no idea if they would be enforceable ( obviously , one country 's laws are usually not valid in another one ) .
By far , most civil aircraft lack radar to display conflicting traffic , and certainly to enhance traffic situational awareness . TCAS and the use of ADS-B are the most effective tools for traffic conflict and situational awareness information . Lidar is not presently utilized on civil aircraft for traffic avoidance . Keep in mind that TCAS essentially uses the same mechanisms as secondary ATC radar .
Guiding is called <URL> and can be requested . A follow-me car can also be used to guide the plane . In some airports the follow-me car is <URL> , as well as its fees . By Frank Schwichtenberg ( Own work ) [ <URL> ] , <URL> In most cases the pilots use charts . Either paper or electronic . Some electronic charts offer a moving map feature , whereby the crew can see their position on the map . Lastly , there 's the new follow-the-greens ( <URL> ) method , in which the ATC programs the taxi route and the crew are then guided by smart green lights . Follow-the-greens cockpit video / ATC audio in Singapore Changi can be <URL> . In all cases , except for follow-the-greens , the route is given . Runway [ number ] , taxi via [ route ] . ( USA . ) Taxi to holding point [ number ] runway [ number ] via [ route ] . ( Europe and elsewhere . ) It 's worth mentioning that the taxiways are marked by <URL> as well . By Bin im Garten ( Own work ) [ <URL> ] , <URL>
ICAO is offering a very nice API for retrieval of , for example , aerodrome names/ICAO codes and NOTAM 's . It is currently in public beta , which means that it is free to use . Once they finish testing it , there will be some kind of cost involved , but they have not published any pricing details yet . You can find it here : <URL> NOAA offers API access to weather information such as METAR 's and TAF 's : <URL> You can find waypoints and navaids , including names and locations , via EUROCONTROL EAD : <URL> ( register first , then return to that link ) . However , what they seem to offer is a one time search/database dump , more than an actual API .
1 : Do pilots eat during flight or they wait until they are back on the ground ? As pilots happen to be humans , their metabolism works in a similar fashion as yours or mine work . So they eat when they are hungry . On a long flight , they can eat during the flight , but on short flights ( e.g. 30 minutes - 2 hours ) , they might not get enough free time to have a meal . On busy days , pilots may not get enough time to have proper meals , so they try to eat small meals containing more nutrition . This is detailed in an article on <URL> . They also avoid heavy meals before a flight . 2 : Do they get the same food that is served to the passengers or do they bring their own meal ? Most of the time , food served to the passengers is the same which is served to the pilots , although they do n't <URL> . An airline <URL> that : ... the pilot gets the first class meal and the copilot the business class meal .
Since gliders have no engines , they are often permitted to operate under special agreements called Letters of Authorization , which permit them to operate where other aircraft may not . These agreements may permit them to fly VFR in Class A airspace to capture mountain wave lift , through TFRs , through Restricted airspace , depending on the terms of the agreement with the FAA . In particular , in the airspace you mention near the Capitol , <URL> . This Waiver supersedes the TFR rules and the associated NOTAMs . Furthermore , it permits gliders to even thermal inside the TFR if necessary for safety of flight .
Current RVR is obtained from the METAR , yes , which in turn is obtained from <URL> on the airport site . Minimum allowable RVR is obtained from charts ( <URL> ) , more specifically the <URL> for approaching an airport . And on the <URL> chart for departing . Example : <URL> R is RVR in hundreds of feet , V is Visibility in miles , in this example . Units can change and will be denoted , check full PDF for all examples .
Airline pilots generally arrive at the airport 2 hours before departure . Typically , a pilot will gather in a meeting with other pilots flying the same flight ( who he/she may have never met before ; but that is not a problem as there are Standard Operational Procedures which every pilot follow ) . They will discuss the flight plan ( including expected delays , departure / arrival routes and procedures ) , weather , review the loading sheet &amp; fuel etc. . After the pilots ' meeting , they will also meet the flight crew and have a brief discussion about the flight . Matters such as expected delays , transport of patient ( sick passengers ) needing medical attention etc. will also be brought out . Around 30 ~ 45 minutes before departure , the pilots will board the plane . One pilot will program the Flight Management Computer in the cockpit while the other will conduct a walk-around . There are " stand-by " pilots ready to takeover whoever is unable to report to duty at the airport . They can be anywhere and doing anything while on call , however they must be able to arrive at the airport typically 1 ~ 2 hours after receiving a call . Also , they must not consume alcohol while on call as this will invalidate their flying status .
As long as the pilot is having a first class medical , her pregnancy should have no effect on the operations , at least legally , though the regulations differ from country to country . I 'm not aware of any FAA regulations that prohibit pilot ing during pregnancy . The closest it comes is in <URL> , which says ( noting that pregnancy is not a medical deficiency in any way and the regulation is taken here in the widest sense ) that : ( a ) Operations that require a medical certificate . Except as provided for in paragraph ( b ) of this section , no person who holds a medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter may act as pilot in command , or in any other capacity as a required pilot flight crewmember , while that person : ( 1 ) Knows or has reason to know of any medical condition that would make the person unable to meet the requirements for the medical certificate necessary for the pilot operation As long as the pilot feels that she is medically fit and has a valid medical certificate , they ca n't be legally prevented from flying the aircraft . In case of other regulattions ( like EASA ) , pregnant women are not allowed to pilot after 26 weeks of pregnance . For example , <URL> says : ( c ) Pregnancy ( 1 ) In the case of pregnancy , if the AeMC or AME considers that the licence holder is fit to exercise her privileges , he/she shall limit the validity period of the medical certificate to the end of the 26th week of gestation . After this point , the certificate shall be suspended . The suspension shall be lifted after full recovery following the end of the pregnancy . ( 2 ) Holders of class 1 medical certificates shall only exercise the privileges of their licences until the 26th week of gestation with an OML . There are a number of medical issues that the pilot should be aware of while pregnant , so that appropriate measures could be taken , like , Ability to move the controls to their full extent . Ability to wear seat belts . Effect of high altitude operation on the foetus among others . The airline policy will vary and they have to consider a number of other conditions - for example , the ability of flight crew to egress during a crash etc. .
Basic flying rules require the pilot to be able , at any time : to maintain the aircraft safe attitude , to avoid other aircraft and obstacles , to know where he/she is , to find their way to the landing aerodrome . Does the pilot need to see outside ? It depends ... Any of these tasks are possible with viewing the environment . A trained pilot in an aircraft with the appropriate equipment , with the appropriate support and equipment on the ground , can also perform any of these tasks without seeing anything outside the aircraft . VMC vs. IMC There is a set of minimum conditions to declare that the outside environment is visible : these conditions are known as <URL> ( VMC ) . When VMC are not achieved , the conditions are said to be IMC , for <URL> . VFR vs. IFR Any flight must be done under one of the two existing set of rules : <URL> ( VFR ) <URL> ( IFR ) . The rules to be followed are dictated by regulation and are directly dependent on the meteorological conditions . In VMC : A VFR flight is allowed . A pilot may elect to fly IFR , at convenience . In IMC : You must use IFR , but you have to be allowed to do that . The aircraft must be certified for IFR . ( For the sake of completeness , a <URL> flight may be allowed while under IMC ) . What we said so far is : a pilot may fly without visibility ( IMC ) , but to do that must be trained and allowed , must follow IFR , and the aircraft must be certified for IFR . Landing without visibility , source : <URL> . Which instruments are required to fly IFR ? Some instruments are required to allow the pilot to maintain a safe attitude of the aircraft , e.g. ( left-to-right , top-to-bottom ) <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> . <URL> Main instruments , source : <URL> Some instruments are required to allow the pilot to navigate , e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , documentation on-board . ILS principle , source : <URL> Some equipment is required to be interlocked with <URL> ( ATC ) , e.g. radio , <URL> . Typical ATC room , source : <URL> See also : <URL> Some equipment may be required to avoid collision and accidents into terrain , e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> . IFR flying aircrafts are separated by ATC , to help the pilot to avoid other aircraft . TCAS , source : <URL> Most of the commercial airliners fly under IFR , regardless of the conditions . In addition they have a <URL> . Try to fly IFR with <URL> .
Using TLAR ( That Looks About Right ) . Pilot turns off a runway onto a taxiway spur and sees the runway safety area lines and just estimates a point beyond roughly equal to or greater than the length of the fuselage and places the cockpit over that point . Other methods include geo-referenced airport diagrams on a moving map display showing the position of the aircraft .
Can a sextant be used while flying ? Yes it can . Some aircraft like 747 for example had a sextant port to allow celestial navigation . How accurate/reliable is a sextant , both standing still and at 500 + mph ? Sextant is not accurate . At least not accurate enough for today 's navigation purposes . You can not perform a RNP-RNAV approach with a sextant . Per wikipedia , the best accuracy you can get with a sextant is between a tenth to a quarter of nautical mile . But it is a very good alternative if everything else fails . Are sextants found in any cockpits today ? As for sextants in modern cockpits , my best guess is you wo n't find any , at least in the form of one " left in a drawer " . See that image of a sextant being operated on a VC-10 . It 's more like a submarine periscope than a traditional naval sextant . <URL> Retrieved from <URL> unknown copyright owner . Finally , as KRyan notes and as voretaq7 wrote <URL> , pilots do n't need to know , but they can attend training in order to know .
Once you 've lined up nicely on the runway , you only need the rudder pedals as they do provide enough nose gear steering for the takeoff roll even at low speed . Rudder pedal steering is available during takeoff , landing , and taxiing when small directional changes are required . Full deflection of the rudder pedals produces about 7 degrees of nose wheel steering . -- <URL> The 7 degrees figure quoted above will vary by plane . Tiller is used when tight turns are needed . Remember most airliners do n't have a tiller on the first officer 's side , yet they do takeoff without the captain steering for them . <URL> ( <URL> ) In the linked video we see the captain let go of the tiller as soon as he is lined up on the runway . Also notice the tiller move on its own afterward , which indicates that the rudder pedal [ nose wheel ] steering is being used .
I agree , Malaysian MH132 was a Non-Event . If the pilots had any concerns over the slight variation in their routing , they should have mentioned it before they loaded it into the Flight Management System ( FMS ) . I currently fly long haul B777 for a major airline . I ca n't speak for others , but at the airline I work for we do many " gross error checks " . Some are done in flight planning , some during the loading of the FMC , and some are done during the flight . While still in the flight planing area , the Captain and First Officer will look at the total routing in regards to wind , temperature , turbulence , volcanic activity , etc. . Often a call is made to the dispatcher who generated the Operational Flight Plan ( OFP ) to discuss the routing , expected levels of turbulence , and fuel reserves . About 20 % of the time the Captain will request a slight change to the routing or additional fuel be added . A new OFP is then generated and it will be designated " Release 2 " . Both the flight plan route and ICAO flight plan route are printed on the OFP and we compare the two . I have never found an error in the 17 years I have been doing it , but we still do it every time . Once the Captain , FO and augment pilots ALL agree , the OFP is officially accepted and we head to the aircraft . ( up to 4 pilots on Ultra Long Haul flights ) When we get to the aircraft we run though the basic preflight checks , and then the flight plan is downloaded to the FMS using the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System ( ACARS ) digital datalink system . The departure runway and SID is also loaded at this time . Before we " activate " and " execute " the routing , the Pilot Monitoring ( PM ) reads the entire FMC routing and the Pilot Flying ( PF ) compares it to the OFP . After runway takeoff performance data is loaded we then check the " Legs " page of the FMC for a logical sequence of legs . We generally just check to make sure there are no course reversals on the various legs of the route . If there are any user defined waypoints ( Lat/Long waypoints ) we perform bearing and distance checks of the FMC against the OFP . This is done with the the Heading Reference switched to TRUE heading instead of Magnetic for more accurate numbers . These bearing and distance checks are not done for " Named " waypoints , only Lat/Long waypoints . Wind data is then requested and then loaded via ACARS . Next is a check of the FMC distance compared to both the OFP distance and Great Circle Route distance . The FMC distance is almost always somewhere between the OFP distance and GCR distance . This check is one sure way to spot a routing entry error . Finally a check of the FMC and OFP predicted fuel over destination is done . If there is a large difference , it means either the routing or winds were incorrectly entered . Once airborne there are more checks : In the old days before GPS we would check the accuracy of the Inertial Navigation System ( INS ) as we approached the coast for any over water flight . This was usually done using a VOR/DME fix . Once airborne we again check bearing and distance as we approach each user defined waypoint ( Lat/Long waypoint ) . Once past the waypoint by about 5 mins we then plot our current Lat/Long on a plotting chart to insure we are still on course .
The Boeing chart you reference appears to use for the approach speed column the Vref speed of the aircraft at its max landing weight in the landing configuration . This is the speed you want to be at or close to when you start the landing flare ( the two 747 carriers I flew for used Vref +5 ) . Absent charted speed limits , controller instructions , or company policy , there is no specific distance threshold along the approach path that you can not cross above that speed . The requirement is to be at the proper speed when you enter the landing flare . However , if you were , say , flying the classic stabilized approach , you would be in the landing configuration at this speed from the FAF ( final approach fix ) to the landing flare . The FAF is typically around 5 miles from the runway . Now , insofar as speed stages , the requirement is not one of specific distance points along your approach path ( again absent charted limits , etc. ) , but rather what you have to do speed wise while changing from a clean configuration to the landing configuration . You 're approaching the airport with the gear and flaps up . The critical element speed wise on the approach is the wing configuration . Given the 747-200 speed of 150 kts in that chart , if you slow to that speed with the flaps up , you will stall . The minimum safe speed would be around 80 kts greater than that . Go to flaps 1 ( which really does n't put the trailing edge flaps at 1 degree but rather puts out the leading edge flaps or slats as some call them ) . Once they 're out you can safely slow to Vref +60 . At flaps 5 you can slow to Vref +40 . At flaps 25 you 'll be able to safely slow to the Vref speed in normal operating conditions . Other aircraft have different flap settings and different speeds . The important thing to remember is that you 're changing the shape of the wing to be able to fly more slowly . Where you will be along your approach path when you do this is typically not determined by distance per se , but by time . Do it too soon and you burn more fuel . Do it too late , and the problem becomes one of not being at Vref when you need to be .
The magic regulation for minimum equipment on a balloon ( in the USA ) is <URL> . The FAA requires that balloons be equipped with : For all balloons [ Reserved ] An altimeter . A rate of climb indicator . For hot air balloons ( additional equipment ) : A fuel quantity gauge . An envelope temperature indicator . For captive gas balloons ( additional equipment ) : A compass . Beyond what 's required by regulation , in most free balloon operations I 've seen they also carry an aviation radio and/or a CB radio ( to communicate with their ground crew ) - this is usually a handheld transceiver . <URL> also makes for interesting reading . They talk about required and optional instruments and equipment found on various types of balloons in Chapter 2 .
After looking through the FAR 's , the answer is no , the rear passenger seat can not be occupied by somebody claiming to be a " safety pilot " . <URL> : ( c ) No person may operate a civil aircraft in simulated instrument flight unless -- ( 1 ) The other control seat is occupied by a safety pilot who possesses at least a private pilot certificate with category and class ratings appropriate to the aircraft being flown . ( 2 ) The safety pilot has adequate vision forward and to each side of the aircraft , or a competent observer in the aircraft adequately supplements the vision of the safety pilot ; and ( Emphasis Mine ) So the safety pilot basically has to be able to access the controls and have vision that supplements the pilot , meaning must be able to see as well as the pilot position would .
I 've just arrived back home after being in the US for some months . I was required to have a FAA class 3 medical , because I did some flight training there , and luckily the one I 've received is also is a student pilot certificate with the number on it you require to register for DUAT . Some of my colleges did n't have this number and so they were not able to register until getting there FAA pilot certificate . This will be send to your home adress , most probably when you are home again . In the US you 'll only get a temporary certificate ( peace of paper ) . The only number you 'll find on it is your current license number . Now what you can try : One of my colleges simply wrote an e-mail to duats helpdesk where he described his situation , giving all the information they require on their registration page with his foreign license number and attached a photography of his license and a proof that he 'll be in the us for the next months . Less than 24 hours later he had a log-in . We had a student Visa , but if you do n't have something like this , just try it without it , or take a photography of something else looking trustworthy . Good luck and enjoy your trip ! Edit : I was just looking for the e-mail address , but for any reason my browser refuses to load duats website . As far as I remember , you 'll find it at the registration page . If someonewho can access the website likes to add the e-mail adress please feel free to do so , I would appreciate your help .
end question
start question
What is the purpose of proximity sensors on hydraulic systems ?
A <URL> is any sensor that detects whether there is something in its proximity ( within specified distance ) . There are many kinds of proximity sensors ( optical , magnetic , capacitive etc. ) that detect different kinds of target objects and to various distances . In this case , proximity sensor is used to detect position of the spoiler . Proximity sensors are preferred over micro-switches because they are more reliable , since they have no moving parts and thus do n't wear out . For parts actuated with hydraulics they are the only way to detect the position , since hydraulic actuators do n't provide any direct way for detecting their position ( compared to electric actuators , where in some cases the response of the actuator can be used to detect the position ; the principle is similar to a magnetic proximity sensor anyway though ) .
This depends on how the systems are plumbed , and while this is likely an exception , for some airplanes like the EMB-145 , the answer is yes . The EMB-145 has 2 hydraulic systems . System # 1 serviced the outboard brakes and system # 2 serviced the inboard brakes and the parking brake . The parking brake actuated all of the brakes and this let you transfer fluid between the systems through the outboard brakes . This is n't a normal procedure , but one maintenance would walk you through if you had low fluid in one system and more than you needed in the other to balance the systems if you were out somewhere without the ability to service the hydraulic fluid . The procedure was either Depress and hold toe brakes Set parking brake Release toe brakes Release parking brake or the opposite , depending on which way you wanted to transfer fluid . This works in flight or on the ground ( <URL> )
No , no , by all means do n't turn left . See also <URL> . Transport category aircraft are capable of climbing out on one engine . It is a certification requirement for them . So if the left engine failed after rotation , the first thing the pilot has to concentrate on is to keep the plane flying and under control . That means ease the pull on the stick a bit to avoid stalling as the plane is not able to climb as fast and push the right rudder pedal to keep the plane flying straight ¹ . Once the plane is in straight climb at $ V_2 $ speed , it 's time to deal with the engine . First both pilots cross-check the instruments and the rudder position to determine it was the left engine that failed . Then they feather the propeller ( auto-feather might have done it already ) and cut fuel to the failed engine . If the engine fire warning is on and did not extinguish when fuel was cut , they discharge fire extinguisher . These things are done according to standard emergency procedure that the pilots have to remember and train in simulator . I do n't know the specifics for ATR-72 , but in all aircraft it is roughly like above . Meanwhile the aircraft climbs to safe altitude and then they should level off and let it accelerate a bit to get some safety margin for manoeuvring . The plane is now in relatively safe condition . Even if engine was on fire , it is unlikely to spread while the aircraft is flying . So the pilots now have time to declare emergency and ask the controller for what options they have for landing . Whether they do a complete circuit and land back on the same runway or turn around and land in opposite direction or land on some other runway then depends on wind and where they are relative to the runways at the time . There were many accidents where plane crashed after one engine failure during take-off because pilots started manoeuvring before they attained sufficient altitude and safe speed . It is better not to hurry , engine failure does not require it . ¹ Of course provided there are no obstacles in the way . For example if you were taking off from VQPR runway 33 and your right engine quit , you 'd still have to do a right turn rather early to avoid the <URL> right in the axis of the runway and quite a bit above it . But for any airport that require such avoidance ( and there is quite a few of them in various mountains ) , the pilots are specifically briefed and trained for that airport which includes instructions on how to best handle engine failure during take-off and during approach and viability of the procedure is verified in simulator and with a test flight . The above answer just outlines the generic procedure .
One seller 's link on Amazon claimed 10 " x 5 " , but when I measured an old one ( only one I have handy ) , it was between 10.25 " and 10.5 " long by 5 " wide . So I 'd recommend using the latter value , knowing that the chart will probably be a hair under 10.5 " long and so you have room for error ( or a badly refolded chart ) .
Instrument landing system - ILS - is a very common precision approach system used in airports around the world . An ILS consists of two ground antennas and an airborne received in the aircraft . One of the ground antennas , known as a localiser , transmits a narrow beam along the runway , giving lateral guidance to aircraft approaching the runway . The other antenna , the glide slope , transmits a vertical beam at a specified angle , giving vertical guidance for aircraft approaching . Together , the localiser and glide slope provides aircraft with an exact path to follow toward the runway . <URL> A localiser antenna The main advantage of ILS is that is allows approaches and landings in poor weather conditions . Pilots do not have to visually see the runway until moments before touchdown , because the ILS can guide the plane down very precisely . However , there are different standards of ILS . These are named CAT I , CAT II and CAT III ( CAT III has three additional substandards : CAT IIIa , CAT IIIb and CAT IIIc ) . In order to fly a CAT I approach , the cloud based ( ceiling ) must be no lower than 200 feet and the visibility must be no lower than 550 metres . This is because the pilots must be able to visually identify the runway no later than 200 feet above the ground to be able to land . For a CAT II approach , the ceiling must not be lower than 100 ft and the visibility not less than 350 metres . CAT IIIa has a minimum ceiling of 50 ft and a minimum visibility of 200 metres . CAT IIIb has no minimum ceiling , but there must be at least 50 metres of visibility . For a CAT IIIc , which has not actually been implemented anywhere , there are no minimum limits for ceiling and visibility . As you can see , CAT II or III approaches allow pilots to land is extremely bad weather conditions . So if CAT III is so great , why do n't we use it all the time ? In order to use CAT II/III approaches , a number of conditions have to be met : The ground based ILS equipment must live up to very strict standards , and be very carefully calibrated . As a result , installing and maintaining CAT II/III ILS equipment at an airport is very expensive , so not all airports have it . In addition to the ILS antennas , there are also strict requirements for other runway equipment such as lighting . The aircraft must have special equipment that is certified to perform CAT II/III approaches . Again , cost is a significant factor . Equipping aircraft with such fine tuned equipment is very expensive , and if you mostly fly to areas with good weather , it is probably not worth it . The pilots must be qualified . A normal pilot license is not enough to fly a CAT II/III approach , you need additional training and qualifications to be allowed to perform such approaches . Air traffic control low visibility procedures result in reduced airport capacity . Because ILS signals are transmitted from antennas on the ground , there are risks of interfering with the ILS signal , resulting in imprecise guidance . The main issue is when an aircraft moves in front of the antennas , partly blocking the signal for other aircraft on approach . Because of this , airports have strict rules for how close aircraft may get to ILS antennas when CAT II/III approaches are in use . Aircraft on the ground must hold further away from the runway than they normally would , to stay clear of so called ILS sensitive areas . <URL> An example of ILS sensitive/critical areas at an airport <URL> Separate runway holding points used when CAT II/III approaches are carried out We also need additional space between two aircraft approaching the same runway . This is because the first aircraft , once landed and on the runway , can block parts of the localiser signal for the following aircraft . Because of this , the first aircraft must be clear of the runway by the time the second aircraft joins short final . This means we need extra space between aircraft , resulting in a reduced runway capacity . As you can see , there are a number of factors limiting the use of CAT II/III approaches , which is why they are only used when the weather is so bad that CAT I approaches can not be carried out .
For a short introduction on what ADS-B is and why it is called dependent see <URL> . ADS-B is a surveillance technology whereby the aircraft broadcasts information about its identity , position , altitude and velocity of the aircraft to any interesting party . The position and velocity information is derived from GNSS ( GPS ) . TCAS ADS-B is not intended to replace TCAS , although in the future it will augment TCAS . The TCAS algorithm currently only uses distance and altitude to calculate whether there is a conflict and to determine the best conflict resolution strategy . With the more accurate ADS-B position available to the system as well , the number of TCAS interrogation can be reduced ( the surveillance radio frequencies are getting congested in some areas ) and the performance of TCAS can be improved . A new standard for this hybrid approach was <URL> <URL> . It may also be possible to have a passive TCAS-like system that does not require active interrogation but is purely depending on ADS-B . Currently a technical standard for a new <URL> ( ACAS , the generic name for TCAS ) is being developed in a joint RTCA / EUROCAE committee ( RTCA SC-147 / EUROCAE WG-75 ) , which will take advantage of more data offered by ADS-B . This new standard will eventually replace TCAS II . A ' TCAS light ' for small aviation has also been developed based on ADS-B . It is called Traffic Situation Awareness with Alerts ( TSAA ) , a standard that was <URL> <URL> . Within the next couple of years we will see manufacturers start offering products based on this standard . ATC The purpose of ADS-B is neither to replace ground based ATC . But it will change the way ATC is done . ADS-B IN will improve the situation awareness of pilots ; they will have a display of accurate positions of other aircraft . New procedures will allow pilots to maintain visual separation to other aircraft in marginal Visual Meteorological Conditions ( VMC ) , where they currently would often lose sight of other traffic . A more advanced usage of ADS-B will be flight deck based interval management ( FIM ) where ATC will be able to instruct aircraft to ' follow that plane XX seconds behind for landing on runway YY ' . A first technical standard for FIM is being worked on , it is intended to be published before the end of this year . ADS-B is neither a replacement for all radars , although it will allow the number of radars to be reduced . For remote areas that currently do not have radar coverage because of the associated high costs , ADS-B will be a cost effective alternative . Over the oceans , satellite <URL> will be able to provide surveillance , changing the way ATC is performed over the high seas . GNSS Given the examples above , it is easy to understand the requirements on the reliability of ADS-B are substantial . Not only must the system be able to deliver accurate position data , it must be able to deliver that data with high integrity . That means , the probability that the system transmits inaccurate position data , even when there is a failure in the system , must be extremely small . To achieve this , a positioning systems must be able to do internal cross checks to detect failures and not depend on possible erroneous inputs from humans . GPS can meet the position source requirements using Receiver Autonomous Integrity Monitoring ( RAIM ) . The ADS-B technical specifications have all been written in such a way that they do not explicitly require GNSS to be the position source , but at the moment it is the only system that meets the requirement effectively . Most certification documents are written with the assumption that a GNSS will be used to provide position data . Theoretically one could put another system forward , but the costs of certifying that would be very high .
A <URL> is any sensor that detects whether there is something in its proximity ( within specified distance ) . There are many kinds of proximity sensors ( optical , magnetic , capacitive etc. ) that detect different kinds of target objects and to various distances . In this case , proximity sensor is used to detect position of the spoiler . Proximity sensors are preferred over micro-switches because they are more reliable , since they have no moving parts and thus do n't wear out . For parts actuated with hydraulics they are the only way to detect the position , since hydraulic actuators do n't provide any direct way for detecting their position ( compared to electric actuators , where in some cases the response of the actuator can be used to detect the position ; the principle is similar to a magnetic proximity sensor anyway though ) .
What you describe does not match any banner tow rig I am familiar with , and I have towed banners . What it sounds like is a magnetometer , which might be on a survey aircraft . They can be on a boom ( stinger ) or sometimes towed . I have seen them on Cessna 182 , 210 and 208 aircraft , as tail mounted booms . Magnetometers are typically used for geophysical survey work . Towed magnetometers may be more sensitive and might be useful for detecting submarines , mines , etc. . The P-3 typically has a rear boom with a magnetometer or magnetic anomaly detector ( MAD ) .
Short answer If a single range should be stated for ACAS II , it would be the reliable range of 14 NM , even if targets can displayed by current TCAS II up to 30/40 NM . Reliable means here : a track can be established with a probability of at least 90 per cent for aircraft within the surveillance range . The reliable range of 14 NM is achievable with a ground plane antenna a power of 250 W and a Mode S sensitivity of -- 74 dBm . Diversity of ranges There are different range values that can be considered : Overall pulse detection range is 30 NM . Reliable surveillance range is 14 NM . Recommended RA range is 12 NM . Guaranteed range is 4.5 NM . The range must be limited because it impacts the number of transponder addresses to be stored for a given transponder density as well as the number of interrogations within a volume , hence radio spectrum use and reliability . ACAS II recommendations by ICAO ACAS II ICAO recommendations are found in <URL> , Airborne Collision Avoidance System ( ACAS ) Manual : Interrogation pulse detection range is 14 NM for Mode A/C and 30 NM for Mode S . The equipment should have the capacity for surveillance of any mix of Mode A/C or Mode S targets up to at least 30 aircraft . Surveillance must be reliable within 14 NM , with an aircraft density of 0.3 aircraft per square NM within 5 NM ( and up to 142 aircraft within 30 NM ) . The equipment should assess as possible collision threats only those targets within a maximum range of 12 NM . No target outside this range should be eligible to generate an RA . As density increases , reliability decreases . If the overall target count ever exceeds the surveillance capacity at any range up to 14 NM , the long-range targets may be dropped . The system reliability is guaranteed within the minimum range of 4.5 NM . This radius is deemed adequate for providing protection for up to 500 kt encounter . TCAS version 7.1 TCAS II is the sole implementation of ACAS II which fully comply with ACAS II . The reference ( paying ) documents are : <URL> ( RTCA ) and <URL> ( EUROCAE ) . From the EASA document <URL> TCAS II can simultaneously track up to 30 aircraft , within a nominal range of 14 NM for Mode A/C targets and 30 NM for Mode S targets . In implementations that allow for the use of the Mode S extended squitter , the normal surveillance range may be increased beyond the nominal 14 NM . However , this information is not used for collision avoidance purposes . This is confirmed in FAA document <URL> TCAS has a requirement to provide reliable surveillance out to a range of 14 nmi and in traffic densities of up to 0.3 aircraft per square nautical mile . [ ... ] TCAS can simultaneously track up to 30 transponder-equipped aircraft within a nominal range of 30 nmi .
The <URL> is a variant of the Gulfstream V. From <URL> ( November 16 , 2015 ) for the G550 , it costs $ 4,731.05 per hour , give or take . ( Assuming the plane is paid for already . ) Adjusted for <URL> that 's $ 4,825.11 . Note that the GV is older than the G550 , and would generally cost more to operate . This figure includes fuel , maintenance ( parts and labor ) , engine reserves , auxiliary power units if applicable , and miscellaneous expenses to include crew travel , catering and cabin supplies , landing and parking fees -- all boiled down to a single number .
For the aviation industry , flammability is a major concern , and aviation hydraulic systems require Fluids that can not burn yet do n't create corrosion and still lubricate . <URL> for instance is a phosphate based ester , a nasty substance that irritates the skin , but at least has some flame resistance . Old hydraulic motion systems on simulators used the stuff , later ones went to mineral oils like Shell Tellus . If there is an oil leak in a pressure hose , a fine mist of fluid droplets appears , flammable if mineral oil but this could be handled in a ground facility with extinguishers everywhere . Not a good circumstance in an aviation accident though , and that is why in aircraft the esters have to be used . Vegetable oils are not used for hydraulic systems in the aviation industry at this moment as far as I am aware .
From this PPRune forum <URL> , the Boeing 777 does use ultrasonic sensors ( some 20 per tank ) This airplane has some 20 sensors per tank . Each of these is effectively a " radio doppler " and works on the same principle . The sensor calculates the height of fluid by measuring the difference in the speed of the sonic signal sent out thru one sensor to another , as against the ACTUAL local speed of sound ( which is a preset value ) thru standard temp air.This difference is then converted very accurately into height in the tank in mm.Which translates into quantity of fuel AT THAT sensor given the actual specific gravity of fuel at that point . - King on a Wing
In the United States moored balloons ( or kites ) are governed under <URL> ( a much neglected and very short corner of the regulations that also covers amateur rocketry and " unmanned free balloons " -- looking at your profile it 's probably a section you 'd find very interesting ! ) . In this particular case you 're probably looking for <URL> . The FAA is mum on the specific engineering requirements of mooring systems - I expect they anticipate you will work with structural and mechanical engineers to design a tethering system that can safely hold the loads your moored object will place on it ( or just tie it to the biggest , most structurally secure thing you can find , with a nice heavy rope and a proper knot ) . There are a few things they ARE pretty specific about though . Some operating limitations ( altitude , size , location , visibility ) . The fact that you have to tell them about it in advance ( At least if it 's more than 150 feet AGL , per ) Lighting and marking requirements for the tether ( s ) ( , which basically says the mooring line must have pennants ( daytime ) and/or lights ( nighttime ) to ensure visibility ) What happens to Balloons if the tether breaks ( , which basically says if the balloon breaks free of its moorings you need a " rapid deflation device " that gets it down in a hurry so it 's not just wandering around up there ) . Interestingly they do n't seem to care so much if a kite escapes its moorings .
The ignition requirements are pretty straight-forward : <URL> ( a ) Each battery ignition system must be supplemented by a generator that is automatically available as an alternate source of electrical energy to allow continued engine operation if any battery becomes depleted . ( b ) The capacity of batteries and generators must be large enough to meet the simultaneous demands of the engine ignition system and the greatest demands of any electrical system components that draw from the same source . ( c ) The design of the engine ignition system must account for -- ( 1 ) The condition of an inoperative generator ; ( 2 ) The condition of a completely depleted battery with the generator running at its normal operating speed ; and ( 3 ) The condition of a completely depleted battery with the generator operating at idling speed , if there is only one battery . ( d ) There must be means to warn appropriate crewmembers if malfunctioning of any part of the electrical system is causing the continuous discharge of any battery used for engine ignition . ( e ) Each turbine engine ignition system must be independent of any electrical circuit that is not used for assisting , controlling , or analyzing the operation of that system . ( f ) In addition , for commuter category airplanes , each turbine engine ignition system must be an essential electrical load .
There are two separate aural warnings that you might be referring to : one is indeed called ' Triple Click ' and consists of three brief clicks , but is emitted when the landing capability becomes degraded or the autopilot otherwise changes mode . The warning generated upon autopilot disconnection , instead , is the so-called ' Cavalry Charge ' and consists of three longer beeping sounds ; it 's either played once or repeated continuously ( cases 1 and 2 below ) . From a table in the Airbus A320 FCOM , DSC-31-10 P 4/6 : TRIPLE CLICK Meaning : Landing capability downgrade or some cases of mode reversion . Duration : 0.5 s ( 3 pulses ) CAVALRY CHARGE Meaning : A/P disconnection by takeover push-button . A/P disconnection due to failure . Duration : 1.5 s Permanent Cancellation : Second push on takeover push-button . Press Master Warning light or takeover push-button . See <URL> ( at 2:52 ) for a cavalry charge immediately followed by a triple click ( thank you <URL> ) .
The mean aerodynamic chord is only identical to the mean chord for rectangular wings . For tapered wings it is slightly longer . Why ? Because the mean aerodynamic chord is the mean chord of a rectangular wing that has the same pitch characteristics as the " real " wing . Pitch characteristics need to include pitch damping , and pitch damping grows with the square of the local chord . That is why the formula for the mean aerodynamic chord divides the square of the local chord by the wing area : $ $ \ text { MAC } = \ int _ { y = - \ frac { b } { 2 } } ^ { y = \ frac { b } { 2 } } { \ frac { c ^ 2 } { S } } dy $ $ Here $ b $ denotes wing span , $ y $ the spanwise coordinate and $ S$ the wing area . Since the chord is squared , deeper sections of the wing are overrepresented in the result . The resulting rectangular wing will have a larger area than the original , tapered wing but the same pitch damping ! In case of a delta wing , MAC will grow to be 2/3 of the root chord , and for an elliptical wing it will be 90.5 % of the root chord . The MAC has been invented to convert arbitrary wing planforms into much easier to calculate rectangular wings . By doing all calculations on the correctly sized rectangular version , the more complicated calculations on the real one could be avoided . However , this works only up to a point : if you want to calculate lift , you need a wing of equal area . if you want to calculate induced drag , you need a wing of equal span . if you wand to calculate pitch motion , you need a wing of the correct MAC . This rectangular wing can either have the same area or the same span as the real wing , but not both together , unless the real wing is rectangular , too . You are right , the two definitions you quote are not compatible . The rectangular wing can not have the same span than the real one , or its area and all associated forces and moments would be higher .
It depends on how you define " glass cockpit . " Technology has progressed in steps to the modern " glass cockpits " of the latest aircraft . Who developed the first glass cockpits ? The military appears to be the first place where electronic displays were used . First for specific uses like navigation or targeting scopes , and later gaining more functionality . Which planes first used these glass cockpits ? The <URL> was the first production aircraft with a HUD and entered service in 1963 . The North American <URL> was equipped with a multifunction display and entered service in 1970 . The commercial side of the industry took a bit longer to adopt the technology . The McDonnell Douglas <URL> had a glass primary flight display and navigation display , and entered service in <URL> . Boeing started work on glass cockpits in the <URL> while developing the the Supersonic Transport ( SST ) . While the SST never entered production , the work on glass cockpit technology was <URL> of the <URL> and <URL> , entering service in 1982 and 1983 , respectively . This was based on work with NASA , including <URL> beginning in 1973 . The Airbus <URL> entered service in 1983 , and also used <URL> . The <URL> , entering service in 1988 , was the first aircraft regarded as having a " full " glass cockpit , replacing traditional instruments for the primary flight instruments . How was the current layout developed , were other layouts in use beforehand ? The first displays were generally dedicated to specific functions . For commercial aircraft , there was a primary flight display ( PFD ) showing the pitch and roll of the aircraft . There was also a second display for navigation which displayed the aircraft 's heading . As RedGrittyBrick points out , adding the speed and altitude to the PFD was natural due to their typical position on either side of the PFD . The use of the vertical " tape " format allows the same visual sense of direction as a round dial while taking up less space in the display . Was there any resistance or difficulty in getting these systems adopted amongst pilots or their companies ? Although there was certainly a sense of caution with the introduction of new technology replacing the most important instruments in the cockpit , the benefits were enough to get the changes adopted . <URL> from 1989 , focusing on the " glass cockpit " in the 757 . It covers the effect on the pilots and their opinions of the new technology . The study shows that the pilots had an overall positive view of the new technology , since it reduced their workload and made tasks easier in many situations . However , the report also identified issues with crew members becoming " complacent " due to more automation , and some tasks actually became more difficult with the new systems . There is also the issue of training pilots on the complex new systems , and about what information should be hidden from pilots either during training or in operation of the aircraft . These types of discussions are certainly not going away , as is evidenced by recent events .
What does your POH/AFM says ? Ignoring winds and other factors , it depends on effective runway length , not just runway length . If you have a runway long ( really long ) enough , you can takeoff/land in either direction . As mentioned <URL> : ... advantage or disadvantage of a sloped runway is that a 1 % runway gradient -- an increase or decrease in altitude of 10 ' for every 1000 ' of runway length -- is equivalent to a 10 % increase or decrease in effective runway length ... Example : Runway length is 1500 ' with 3 % up-slope gradient Landing uphill on it will give us an effective runway length of almost 2000 ' ( 1500 ' x 1.3 = 1950 ' ) . Landing downhill on it will give us an effective runway length of just over 1000 ' ( 1500 ' x 0.7 = 1050 ' ) . Just for reference , the runway ( 6 : uphill ; 24 : downhill ) at Lukla Airport has 12 % gradient and is 1500 ' long . Effective Runway Lengths ( using the formula above ) Hence , hypothetically speaking , if runway 24 is 48,400 ' long with no wind , A380 <URL> takeoff too .
For the current format , it was 1993 when it was standardized . On July 1 , 1993 , a new , revised Terminal Aerodrome Forecast ( TAF ) format and code replaced the existing TAF code . This new code is in effect in most countries . The exceptions are the United States and Canada . These two countries issue Terminal Forecasts for domestic use and TAFs for the military and those airports serving international aviation . On January 1 , 1996 the U.S. and Canada will convert entirely to the new TAF code . After that date , the new code for weather reports ( METAR ) and TAFs will be used worldwide . The North American code used in the FT ( and SAO ) will be discontinued . Although the new TAF code is being adopted worldwide , each country is allowed to make modifications or exceptions to the code for use in each particular country . The TAF code , as described here , is the one used in the United States for those airports serving international aviation and will also be used after the January 1 , 1996 conversion date . The World Meteorological Organization 's ( WMO ) publication No. 782 " Aerodrome Reports and Forecasts " contains the base METAR and TAF code as adopted by the WMO member countries . ( <URL> ) <URL> also confirms the date for the US . The WMO publication No. 782 can be <URL> .
It describes what the velocity vector of the aircraft centre of gravity is in relation to the surface of the earth . Ground speed is the 2-D projection of your speed on the ground , climb speed is the vertical component . Both ground speed and climb speed are very useful parameters as such : ground speed to figure out when the aircraft arrives , climb speed to adjust engine settings etc for reaching cruise altitude with a minimum amount of fuel used . The 3-D vector sum of the two has little practical use , that is probably why it has no separate name as far as I know . The integrated signal is of more use : what is the position in 3D of the centre of gravity of the aircraft relative to earth ? Pretty useful for navigation .
end question
start question
Is " lower pressurization " the correct term for the 787 Dreamliner ?
The terminology is confusing . When you say lower or higher , it is better to clarify the reference . Boeing 787 has a <URL> compared to the legacy airliners . The best way to say it is that it is pressurized to ( or has ) a lower cabin altitude compared to other airliners .
CFI candidates receive a spin training endorsement with no expiration date . According to <URL> , it should look like this : 46 . Spin training : section 61.183 ( i ) ( 1 ) . I certify that has received the required training of section 61.183 ( i ) . I have determined that is competent in instructional skills for training stall awareness , spin entry , spins , and spin recovery procedures . / s / [ date ] J. J. Jones 987654321CFI Exp . 12-31-05 The basis for this is that 61.183 does n't specify a time period in which the endorsement must be received : <URL> To be eligible for a flight instructor certificate or rating a person must : [ ... ] Accomplish the following for a flight instructor certificate with an airplane or a glider rating : Receive a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor indicating that the applicant is competent and possesses instructional proficiency in stall awareness , spin entry , spins , and spin recovery procedures after providing the applicant with flight training in those training areas in an airplane or glider , as appropriate , that is certificated for spins ; and
The altitude appears to be above ground level . From <URL> : Section 4 . Fuel Dumping 9 − 4 − 3 . ALTITUDE ASSIGNMENT If an aircraft is dumping fuel in IFR conditions , assign an altitude at least 2,000 feet above the highest obstacle within 5 miles of the route or pattern being flown . The wording says ' above the highest obstacle ' , indicating AGL . The <URL> is much more explicit : 13.3 Controllers are to recommend to flight crew that jettisoning of fuel should be carried out above 10,000 feet agl . Exceptionally , if fuel dumping at this level , or over water , is operationally impracticable or inconsistent with safety , fuel may be jettisoned above 7000 feet agl in winter and above 4000 feet agl in summer . This indicates that the altitude requirement of dumping fuel is from the from the first consideration i.e. it takes x feet for the fuel to fall before it evaporates . <URL> go into this at a little bit of detail . Generally , air masses are only moved vertically very slowly , usually at a settling rate of approximately 60 centimetres per second . In addition the upper limit of the planetary boundary layer ( PBL ) at the altitude of approximately 3000 ft over ground renders the air flow from the upper to the lower layers more difficult . Therefore the chance that even a small quantity of fuel reaches the ground is estimated to be unlikely . Again , it says ' above ground ' indicating AGL .
The air moves around the fuselage , which causes a localized increase in velocity around the aircraft . This increase in velocity causes a slight decrease in the outside air pressure , which effectively sucks air out of the fuselage , making the cabin at a slightly higher pressure altitude . The effect is localized . While the reduction in pressure , and increase in pressure altitude inside the cabin is small , many GA aircraft display a 40 foot or so difference in pressure altitude between the alternate static port ( inside the aircraft ) and the pressure altitude with the factory static port .
The <URL> : 3-2-5 . Class D Airspace 4 . Departures from : ( a ) A primary or satellite airport with an operating control tower . Two‐way radio communications must be established and maintained with the control tower , and thereafter as instructed by ATC while operating in the Class D airspace . [ emphasis mine ] While operating in Class D airspace , you must maintain two-way radio contact with the tower -- monitor the frequency and be prepared to respond . You may leave the frequency once you are either clear of the airspace , or receive instructions to that end from ATC ( " N1234 , frequency change approved " ) . Whether or not controllers are bothered by you letting them know that you 've left , I ca n't say , but it would probably qualify as frequency congestion . If they want to get in touch with you , they 'll try ( " N1234 , are you still with me ? " ) , but once you 're outside the Class D airspace they 're generally only providing advisory information .
Yes , since the ILS is just a set of radio signals emitted and received by aircraft , there can be more than one aircraft established on localizer and glidepath . The ILS does not lock or tune onto one single aircraft , it continuously broadcasts the localizer and glidepath signal . Since the localizer and glidepath antennas are located at the end of runway for the localizer and at the side of the runway for the glidepath , you will only need to worry about interference by aircraft on the ground , where they are close to the antennas and can deflect the signal due to proximity . This is why there are protection areas and aircraft need to hold at certain holding points , e.g. CAT II holding points when CAT II approaches are in use . Aircraft in the air can also interfere and deflect the signal , however the emitted signals spread in a cone , so other aircraft still can receive the correct signals . To quote <URL> from one of the comments : [ ... ] basically , the localizer is projected from the far end of the runway , and the glideslope is projected from the side of the runway at or near the touchdown target . Thus , aircraft in line to touch down on the ideal target will have good line-of-sight to both transmitter pairs ( unless there 's an aircraft in the ILS Critical Area ) <URL> ( Image Source : www.aopa.org ) ( Image Source : <URL> ( found via <URL> ) ) ( Image Source : <URL> )
" Four hundred " was likely annunciated twice due to a bit of a dip in the terrain that would cause it to pass the 400ft level twice . The " hundred above " call-out is for 100 feet above decision height to let the crew know they will need to make their decision soon to either continue or go around . After that , you hear the " two hundred " and " minimum " call-outs right after one another . The " one hundred " call-out afterwards signifies 100 feet above ground level .
For any <URL> , the event must have a probability of 50 % at least ( that is more than playing playing heads or tails ) . Related US <URL> for AIRMET Z : AIRMETs are issued every 6 hours , where there is a 50 % probability that any of the following en-route weather phenomena will cover an area of 3000 square miles or greater . Phenomena for AIRMET Z are : Icing : Areas of moderate airframe icing , other than convectively induced , including the areal extent . Freezing Level information is included after AIRMETs for moderate icing or statements indicating that no significant icing is expected . Freezing level is defined as : The lowest freezing level above the ground or at the SFC as appropriate . Freezing levels are delineated using high altitude VOR locations describing the location of the lowest freezing level above the ground or SFC as appropriate . Freezing levels above the ground are delineated at 4000 feet intervals above mean sea level ( AMSL ) . Multiple freezing levels above the ground are delineated using " BOUNDED BY " followed by high altitude VOR locations . The range of freezing levels across the forecast area is also included . G-AIRMETs , the graphical version , are issued every 3 hours ( but still describe the next 6 hours ) .
In common parlance , " General Aviation " typically means " not-airline " . In the <URL> , the FAA now defines General Aviation as : That portion of civil aviation that does not include scheduled or unscheduled air carriers or commercial space operations . and it gives the ICAO definition : All civil aviation operations other than scheduled air services and nonscheduled air transport operations for remuneration or hire . Both these definitions are closely tied to commercial operations , and they go out of their way to point out that non-scheduled air carriers are NOT general aviation . Note that " civil aviation " would mean " not military " . Historically the term has been very colloquial , and to some extent you will still find different definitions from everyone . However , IMHO these are the most clear definitions available .
I think the answer depends on what the birds are doing , but all options are basically " at the pilot 's risk " - the tower is just advising you there are some birds hanging around the airport , but nobody can say how they 're going to react to you trying to land there too . If the flock is airborne and flying across the final ( completely neglecting to coordinate their movements with tower , as birds are wont to do ) you can request an extended downwind until they 've moved on . This has happened to me twice , and in my experience birds tend to be far less interested in airports than pilots . They 're usually gone in a minute or two . If they 're sitting on the runway somewhere you can try a low pass over the field to scare them off , but my preference would be to ask the tower/unicom operator if they can chase them away for me with a ground vehicle ( so I 'm not near the flock in case they decide to disperse " upward " instead of " outward " ) . If they 're just pecking around in the grass near the approach end of the runway looking for lunch <URL> &amp; <URL> have the right idea with a go-around or low approach/overflight to scare them off . ( This is part of why a low pass over an unattended uncontrolled field is often advisable -- you 'll hopefully scare off any critters on the runway that you would n't want there when you actually land . ) If they 're " airport birds " you might want to just land . Some of the airports by me have resident flocks of birds that I 'm convinced just sit there and rate people 's landings - I swear I saw the same birds every day shooting touch-and-gos . These are the kind of birds that are n't going to scatter when you do a low pass unless you hit them with your landing gear , so just be aware of where they are ( in case they lose their minds and try to commit suicide by propeller ) but they probably wo n't bother you . I do n't think I 'd ask for a downwind landing because of birds ( unless we 're talking geese or hawks or something ) , but if it 's a calm-wind day , the pattern is empty , and you 're more comfortable with that idea go ahead and ask . The worst the tower can do is say " unable " .
30 degrees . Boeing aircraft , including the 787 , have a Pitch Limit Indicator ( PLI ) in the flight display that tells the pilot how far the wing 's angle of attack ( AOA ) is from stall . the PLI also is limited to 30 deg of pitch attitude , regardless of AOA . But it depends on aircraft configuration During takeoff climb , there is no single target AOA to fly that will guarantee certified takeoff performance . Takeoff-climb AOA will vary with such factors as airplane gross weight , thrust , altitude , flap setting , and CG . Takeoff-climb speeds ( hence , AOA ) are limited by stall speed , tail clearance , and minimum control speeds . The higher speed and greater thrust of an all-engine takeoff reduce the AOA significantly relative to an engine-out takeoff at the engine-out climb speed ( V2 ) . From <URL> At Farnborough 2014 , pilots Neville and Bryan were pulling stunts that would get airline pilots fired . Most airlines limit pitch to 20 degrees ( or in a few cases 25 ) from what I 've read . They kicked off the demonstration with a spectacularly steep takeoff , pitching the plane up just shy of 30 degrees . I 'd guess they flew just inside what Boeing consider unsafe for those conditions . Boeing wo n't reveal ... just how steeply it can take off From <URL> ( my emphasis ) . I think we can be reasonably confident that no production 787 will ever , after take-off , initially climb at greater than 30 degrees . Flight envelopes The way I understand it , asking about the " maximum " of anything for an aircraft is less useful than understanding the flight envelope . This is because the maximum depends very greatly on the exact situation of the aircraft including things like altitude , weight , speed etc. . <URL> Actual flight data from the six Boeing 787 test aircraft .
What does your POH/AFM says ? Ignoring winds and other factors , it depends on effective runway length , not just runway length . If you have a runway long ( really long ) enough , you can takeoff/land in either direction . As mentioned <URL> : ... advantage or disadvantage of a sloped runway is that a 1 % runway gradient -- an increase or decrease in altitude of 10 ' for every 1000 ' of runway length -- is equivalent to a 10 % increase or decrease in effective runway length ... Example : Runway length is 1500 ' with 3 % up-slope gradient Landing uphill on it will give us an effective runway length of almost 2000 ' ( 1500 ' x 1.3 = 1950 ' ) . Landing downhill on it will give us an effective runway length of just over 1000 ' ( 1500 ' x 0.7 = 1050 ' ) . Just for reference , the runway ( 6 : uphill ; 24 : downhill ) at Lukla Airport has 12 % gradient and is 1500 ' long . Effective Runway Lengths ( using the formula above ) Hence , hypothetically speaking , if runway 24 is 48,400 ' long with no wind , A380 <URL> takeoff too .
I 've always heard this referred to as a " greased landing " or a " greaser " , but never a " greaser landing " . My understanding is that it is referring to a landing that was so good that somebody must have greased the entire runway so that you did n't even feel the airplane touch down . If you 've ever tried to pick something up that has been well greased , then you know what they are referring to . It 's very slippery and slides right out of your hands no matter how hard you try .
There are plenty of alternative airports in Hawaii , but none in-between of course . So what the author is getting at is that you 're probably going to be dead if you run into trouble . While I ca n't say I know anything much about the Cessna 402 , it apparently has a normal range of around 1,273 nm ( 1,467 mi , 2,360 km ) , compared to a distance Hawaii-Oakland of 2050nm ( 2359mi , 3797km ) . Hence , you 're going to have to install additional fuel tanks and fly pretty heavy . There a few considerations if you get a problem : You will have to descend since the engine ca n't generate enough thrust at that cruise altitude . I found a source stating the ceiling for both engines is around 26180 ft compared to 11320 ft for one engine . The fuel consumption increases in the remaining engine and will be greater than the total for both engines for the same flying conditions . You 're going to have to run the remaining engine hard for the remain of the flight . If your temporary ferry tanks screw up ( or any of the normal ones for that matter as well ) , you wo n't make it . You may damage/break the gear if you have to return to the airport overloaded . " I once saw a Cessna 402 parked on the ramp at Honolulu with the gear punched half way up into the wings from a poorly executed overweight landing . " <URL> I ca n't do a calculation on for what portion of the flight you would be ' screwed ' but I imagine it might very well be a bit of the journey . <URL> seem to be in the opinion it 's a pain to fly heavy and difficult to with one engine .
Oxygen in passenger masks is either generated by oxygen generator or released from pressurized container via reduction valve . In either case it is released at fixed rate . But human breath is discontinous . So the bag acts as a buffer . You inhale the oxygen accumulated in it and then it slowly refills while you are exhaling .
Although Lnafziger 's answer is correct , I 'd like to elaborate on the purpose of the airspace classes . Class A : This airspace is intended for high-speed , point to point travel . That is why pilots flying in Class A must be instrument rated and in contact with air traffic control ( ATC ) ; aircraft above 18,000 feet are likely to travel quickly and may not have time to avoid each other visually . This is the upper layer of the airspace system . * Class B : This airspace is intended for large airports with lots of jet traffic . The large number and size of aircraft require space for ATC to get them efficiently in and out of the airports . Approach control services are provided . As a result , class B areas are physically large . It is possible for small aircraft flying under visual flight rules to operate here with explict ATC permission , though permission to enter may be denied during periods of high traffic . Small piston-powered aircraft land at Class B airports infrequently , typically due to high landing fees and fuel prices . Class C : Smaller airports with a mix of piston-powered aircraft and jets . Most Class C airports are home to flight schools and small aircraft hangars as well as scheduled service by airlines . While still busy , Class C airports have less traffic than Class B , so ATC does n't need as much space to keep them organized . Like Class B , approach control services are provided . Pilots are only required to establish two-way communication to enter the airspace . Class D : The smallest airspace type for tower-controlled airports , traffic primarily consists of general aviation aircraft . Often these airports handle cargo , business jets , charter service , maintenance or assembly facilities , etc. as well as private aircraft and flight schools . They also host firefighting operations , airshows , or anything else that needs facilities but would interfere with normal traffic if put at a larger airport . Although Class D airports are small , some are very busy ; others handle only a few flights an hour . Approach control services are only provided if the airport is near Class B or C airspace . Class E : This is the lowest level of " controlled airspace . " " Controlled " does n't mean you have to talk to ATC , but that ATC services are available ( within the capabilities of radar and radio equipment ) . This is general-purpose airspace . Aircraft flying under visual flight rules can fly more-or-less whatever they want ( weather permitting ) , and instrument flight rules traffic operate under positive control by ATC . There are regulations in this airspace , but they are n't onerous , and they 're designed to accommodate the wide variety of aircraft and activities that are found here . Some small airports have Class E airspace surrounding them at the ground . Although Class E is a single class of airspace , there are tighter regulations above 10,000 feet , where there are no speed restrictions ( other than the prohibition on supersonic flight over land ) , compared to at lower altitudes where speeds are limited to 250 knots . Class F : See <URL> Class G : This is found near the ground everywhere except controlled airspace around airports , and occasionally at higher altitudes in remote areas ( Alaska or the Rockies , usually ) , but never above 14,500 feet . Most untowered airports have Class G airspace surrounding them . This is " uncontrolled " airspace , so there is no ATC service available at all . Radio and radar work better the higher you go , so at low altitudes you just ca n't expect good results . Class G serves as a notice that ATC services are unavailable , typically due to a lack of radar coverage . In remote areas , the same problems occur at higher altitudes ( radar wo n't see you if you go behind a mountain , and sometimes you 're just too far ) so Class G is found there as well . Most of the time , the only reason anybody goes into Class G airspace is because they 're taking off or landing at an uncontrolled airport , or transiting certain areas that lack radar coverage . Other : There are many kinds of special-use airspace , all of which serve as keep-out signs of varying levels from " please be considerate " up to " will shoot on sight . " In the US , these do n't really interact with airspace classification . * Technically , airspace above 60,000 feet is Class E , but nobody goes up there except scientific and spy/military flights .
My copy of " EW 101 : A First Course in Electronic Warfare " calls it " formation jamming " . <URL> Mind you , an operator of a radar with non-cooperative threat recognition capability will at least suspect something is wrong ( although not from all aspects and ranges ) .
Yes , I think you 're correct although the phrasing is unusual . The usual phrase is " clearance on request " , which is used for IFR departures as explained nicely in <URL> : Experienced instrument pilots know that when they call to request their clearance , the controller may not yet have received it . " Clearance on request " is ATC 's way of politely saying " I do n't have it - I 've requested it - you 'll be the first to know when I get it ! " The only FAA reference for the phrase that I could find is buried in the glossary of the <URL> : Clearance on request . An IFR clearance not yet received after filing a flight plan . But as RalphJ <URL> , if this is a VFR scenario and you needed a class B clearance and transponder code then I assume that the controller said " code on request " to let you know that he was waiting for a transponder code for you , as you assumed . It was n't an instruction as such so you could just acknowledge it with " Roger " or whatever . See <URL> for more information on that .
EASA : this is a European Union body , so yes , the UK is a member state . CAA : There are many Civil Aviation Authorities worldwide , basically each is a national entity within the corresponding state . So , specifically for the UK , yes , there exists a body known as CAA that is a state entity , formally independent but in practice dependent on the UK Government ( Dept. of Transport ) . Their web page is : <URL> Due to the complex configuration of EU law , both EASA and the UK CAA can have their word to say on operations within UK territory . Though , as CAA say themselves : The CAA works closely with the European Aviation Safety Agency ( EASA ) to promote the highest common standards of safety and environmental protection in civil aviation .
Because bigger reaction mass with lower speed carries away less energy for the same momentum . To produce thrust the engine applies force to the exhaust gasses and air . This force accelerates the air . To produce thrust $ F$ , the engine has to impart momentum $ p = \ frac { F } { t } $ per unit of time on the air . Momentum is proportional to mass and first order of speed . $ p = mv $ where $ m $ is mass of the gasses ( reaction mass ) affected by the engine per unit of time and $ v $ is speed of those gasses . The gasses however also take away some kinetic energy . Kinetic energy is also proportional to mass , but also to second order of speed . $ E_k = \ frac12mv ^ 2 $ . This energy has to be provided by the engine . Since the fuel can only provide so much energy ( it 's heating value ) per unit of mass , an engine that needs less energy needs less fuel . And that is achieved by moving more air . Which means higher bypass ratio for jet and bigger propeller for engines with propellers . Note , that this does not say high-bypass engine would be more efficient at slow speed than at high speed . Because it is n't . All jet engines are more efficient at high speed . This is because the power the engine produces is $ P = Fv $ . So at high speed , larger part of the power output is the useful work moving the aircraft . In high-bypass engine the maximum power output of the fan is limited though ( similar to propeller ) , so compared to a turbojet the difference in efficiency is higher at low speed .
end question
start question
What types of air traffic controllers are there ?
In Canada ( and I believe similarly in the United States ) , there are four ratings which can be applied to an Air Traffic Controller license : Airport Control Terminal Control Area Control Oceanic Control Within each of those ratings , the responsibilities are sub-divided a bit based on operational needs . For example , controllers at a tower ( with an ' Airport Control ' rating ) would tend to be qualified in all aspects of tower operations including : Clearance Delivery ( issuing IFR clearances or assigning transponder codes ) Ground Control ( issuing clearances for aircraft to move to/from the apron and runway areas via a taxiway system Air Control ( issueing clearances to aircraft in the runway environment and in the vicinity of the airport ) Terminal Controllers ( if a terminal control area exists around the airport in question ) would be responsible for flights in the immediate vicinity of the airport to approximately 20-50 nautical miles . Their responsibilities may include multiple small airports , just a single large airport , or even just one specific operation at an airport ( such as arrival control or departure control ) . These controllers are usually allowed to apply a smaller amount of lateral separation between aircraft due to the dense nature of the terminal environment and the specific nature of their role . Once the aircraft leave the terminal ( if one exists ) , the Area Controller-sometimes called enroute control-takes over . They are responsible for anywhere between several hundred square miles of airspace to over several thousand square miles in the case of sectors in northern Canada . In the case of an aircraft transiting the ocean , a specific type of area controller called an Oceanic Controller takes over . They possess slightly different training in order to safely separate aircraft over the ocean in non-radar airspace .
Based on the country you are looking for the certification , rules may be slightly changed . For India following syllabus is applicable ( Source : atcguild.com ) At present it is a year-long ab-initio training ( Under revision to make it in two sections of six months each ) Modules : Air Traffic Services Aerodromes and Ground Aids Air Legislation Meteorology Communication Procedures Technical Search and Rescue Air Navigation The selection shall be made on the basis of a Written test 50 % questions on subjects relating to educational qualifications prescribed 50 % on General Knowledge , General Intelligence , General Aptitude , English etc. . Voice test Personal Interview Medical fitness as per ICAO Annex-1 I Googled for the subject , but did n't find much information on the paper patterns or example papers .
Airway data is published in each country by their respective regulatory authority . This is published as a part of AIP ( Aeronautical Information Publication ) . This <URL> contains links to some of the sites having electronic AIPs . The relevant data can be found in Part 2 - Enroute ( ENR ) . For example , <URL> gives the details for UK airways . I do n't think there is a worldwide list as the airways of each country is controlled by the respective government through regulatory body and this information is updated periodically ( in cycles of 28 or 56 days ) .
With larger wings comes more drag . True , because the drag is a function of the wing area A : $ $ D = C_D \ cdot \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho \ cdot V ^ 2 \ cdot A $ $ You need a certain wing area to support the weight of the aircraft . Now the question is : over how many wings will we distribute this wing area ? For over 80 years , the answer has been : one wing ( the two wing halves make up one wing ) . The classical biplane is a thing of the past , however there have been incredibly clever aircraft builders who have looked at the long coupled canard configuration . This one really makes a lot of sense : <URL> Image <URL> So to answer your question : there are aircraft with two wings . It 's just that people do n't buy them , and go for boring old Cessna 's instead .
I never landed at Courchevel , but did some aerobatic training in <URL> in the Giant Mountains of Silesia . What I learned was : A proper approach looks steeper than normal because the field inclination is steeper relative to the plane 's attitude . You need to flare sooner for two reasons : The sink speed relative to the rising ground is higher than normal , and The amount of pitch change needed to flare is larger . Even with airplanes which have a strong ground effect ( and where too fast a touchdown speed will normally result in a very long float ) the flare was short , as was the rollout distance . Do n't let speed bleed off too early , but stay on your approach speed until you are low enough to flare . Airports with slope sit on the sides of mountains . In many cases , the approach is already over rising terrain . When landing with a headwind , the wind will create a downdraft along the approach so the sink speed during the approach will be higher than normal . For glider pilots this is the biggest danger - once you are too low , you will hit the ground short of the runway . Most inclined runways show a variation in inclination along their length . This means that the relative sink speed and the necessary pitch change for a successful flare will vary with the touchdown point . Stay alert , no landing is routine ! The landing configuration and approach speed were not different from that on regular airports with level runways . Different was mostly the height at which the flare is begun . Also , at first I needed getting used to staying on my approach speed until I was low enough to flare - you need more energy to keep the airplane flying until it is level with the ground ( i.e. climbing uphill ! ) , so the final approach and flare must be executed precisely for a good landing . When I saw the runway at Zar for the first time I thought the location is sheer madness . After a few landings I learned to appreciate the benefits : Very short roll-outs and planes would land uphill only , so they come to a stop where the ( downhill ) take-off run could begin . But the approaches need to be precise ( we did mixed motor and glider flying ) especially with gliders if you want to keep your fellow glider students happy .
Broadly speaking , there are three families of motor fuel that you 're probably interested in : Diesels , Kerosenes , and Gasolines . The difference between the families mainly has to do with the molecular weight ( and thus boiling point / vapor pressure ) of the fuel components - in order above from heaviest to lightest . The differences within each family are related to refining , blending , and additives , as well as process controls imposed on the fuel . The Diesel Family In the diesel family we have things like Highway Diesel and the various grades of home heating oil . For transportation purposes these fuels are used in compression-ignition engines ( " diesel engines " ) , where a high temperature and pressure will cause the fuel to ignite and burn , producing power . For other purposes ( like heating ) we basically light the stuff on fire and are happy it burns . The Kerosene Family The Kerosene family are close cousins of the Diesels , including K-1 and K-2 Kerosene ( obviously ) and Jet-A . Jet-A is a high-purity kerosene based fuel manufactured under a specific ASTM standard ( D1655 ) , with specific physical properties , and is used in jet turbine engines . Fuel not meeting the Jet-A specification is generally recycled in the production chain for other purposes ( for example it may be used in blending kerosene for heating , or blended into highway diesel ) . Jet-A is suited for turbine engines , but can also be burned in other compression-ignition piston engines like diesel can ( there are a wide variety of <URL> available from several manufacturers ) . Other grades of Kerosene are used for motor fuels , cooking fuel ( " camp stove fuel " is typically kerosene ) heating , lighting , etc. depending on their refining and purity . The Gasoline Family In the gasoline family we have Avgas , Autogas , and " Gasohol " , all designed for use in spark-ignition engines . Aviation Gasoline ( Avgas ) Avgas actually comes in several grades , all manufactured to an ASTM standard ( D910 ) , with specific physical properties and specific permitted and required additives ( such as Tetra-Ethyl Lead - TEL ) . The grade ( octane rating ) of aviation gasoline is identified by colored dyes added to the blend . The colors used in the US are : Green : AvGas 100 ( 100/130 Octane ) Blue : AvGas 100LL ( 100/130 Octane ) ( This was formulated as a replacement for AvGas 100 , with half the lead - hence 100LL - Low Lead ) Red : AvGas 80 ( 80/87 Octane ) Generally 100LL is the most widely available aviation fuel because it works in the widest range of engines . Autogas ( automotive gasoline ) Automotive gasoline comes in multiple octane grades , but generally it 's all varying blends of " regular " ( 87 octane ) and " premium " ( 93 octane or higher ) . Automotive gasoline is manufactured under a different ASTM standard from Aviation gasoline ( there are several applicable standards , D4814 is commonly used ) , which permits different additives including ethanol ( usually up to 10 % ) . " Gasohol " Gasohol is a slang term for automotive gasoline with any amount of ethanol blended into it , but these days it 's often used to refer to blends like E85 ( 85 % Ethanol , 15 % gasoline stock ) . Flex-fuel car engines and a few other specialty engines are designed to burn this fuel . So what 's the difference ? Why do n't we burn highway diesel or heating kerosene in a 747 ? In a word , purity . The additional controls imposed on Jet-A fuel by the associated standard produce a product with well-known properties . When you fuel a plane with Jet-A you can be confident that fuel wo n't freeze in the tanks at altitude ( at least not unless you cold-soak it below -40 degrees ) . You also know the fuel will be " clean " and wo n't gunk up fuel filters or leave deposits inside the combustion core of the engine that can cause problems later . On the other hand we do n't burn Jet-A in a Mack Truck because it would be prohibitively expensive : Highway diesel does n't have to meet the same strict tolerances as jet fuel , and theres no reason to burn a more tightly specified ( and thus more expensive ) fuel when a less expensive one is readily available . The difference between Aviation Gasoline and Automotive Gasoline is a bit more subtle : the core blend stocks are extremely similar , but the additive packages are very different . The biggest concern for aviation users is usually the ethanol commonly blended into automotive gasoline : Rubber components in aircraft fuel systems were not designed to handle alcohols , and can be damaged/degraded by ethanol . For cars the concern is the lead found in aviation gasoline . Any " modern " car ( with a catalytic converter and oxygen sensors in the exhaust system ) ca n't burn leaded fuel as the lead byproducts in the exhaust will foul both the catalyst matrix and the oxygen sensors ( though a <URL> would have no trouble burning the stuff ) . <URL> - theoretically the fuel that comes out of that process could be equally suitable as a road fuel and an aviation fuel , however the chances of it making its way t
The EUROCONTROL example you give , allows controllers from all member states to work in Maastricht Upper Area Control ( Netherlands ) and provide ATC over Belgium , ( part of ) Germany , Luxembourg and the Netherlands . Many of the controllers there are not from any of these four countries so they are foreign air traffic controllers . Also EUROCONTROL is only providing Upper Area Control above the four countries mentioned above . All member states have their own Air Traffic Control providers , some have more than one . Within EU countries ( note that not all EUROCONTROL member states are EU member states ) we have freedom of labour movement . So for EU citizens there should be no official barriers to work as a foreign controller in another EU member state . Apart from the intra-EU rules , some ATC organisation within the EU are open to applications from outside the EU . For example the Dutch Air Traffic Control Organisation LVNL is open to <URL> . Applicants are not limited to citizens of EU countries . ATC at airports is becoming a commercial business . The companies that you mentioned provide civil ATC at various airports around the world . Another example is ATC at London Gatwick Airport : the contract was <URL> . Outside the EU I know that there are many foreign controllers work in the United Arab Emirates . They are looking for <URL> at this moment as well .
The high energy air that passes through the slots prevents boundary layer separation over the top surface of the flap . Though , this increases drag but it improves the stall characteristics of the airfoil . In other words , we can have higher maximum lift coefficient ( Cl_max ) by having higher maximum angle of attack ( alpha_max ) . So , higher the number of slots higher Cl_max one could reach , there should be a limit . In case of a fixed weight of an aircraft , a higher lift coefficient implies that one can fly at lower speed before it stalls . A comparison between different types of flaps ( up to double slotted ) can be found in the book Aircraft Design and Performance by Anderson . Source : The same book .
FAA Funding is currently a mix of General Fund ( taxes everyone pays ) and Airway Trust Fund ( ticket taxes and fuel taxes ) money . The breakdowns are shown in : <URL>
No because aircraft are categorized by their <URL> ( 1.3 times stall speed ) . <URL> VAT -- Speed at threshold used by ICAO ( 1.3 times stall speed in the landing configuration at maximum certificated landing mass ) By knowing the category , ATC is able to use appropriate speeds . The category is not actually listed anywhere , so the controller will have to know the approach category by heart for each aircraft type . E.g. if the controller sees " B738 " as the aircraft type in the flightplan , they have to know that the corresponding approach category is C. More : <URL> <URL> ( for the US )
Molding of the intricate shape requires expensive carbon fiber For it to dampen the noise it 's best with 5 + blades ( see 3 . ) Which is hard to balance and too much weight for your run-of-the-mill 4-seater single engine plane By the time the benefits were realized , enter the jet engine for the big planes that would have benefited from it . You only see it in few turboprops nowadays . Edit : For more on the correlation between no . of blades and noise : it was mainly discovered from tests . Here 's a long <URL> with tons of info , and a snippet from it follows ( T denotes Test , summary : more blades , less noise ) : <URL>
Yes , there are runways numbered on only one side . For example , the third runway in the Frankfurt Airport ( 18 , Runway west ) is used only for takeoffs ( to the south ) and not for landings . Hence only number 18 is used . The other runways are used for both takeoffs and landings and are numbered 07C/25C , 07R/25L and 07L/25R . <URL> Thomas Römer / OpenStreetMap data [ <URL> ] , <URL> This restriction is due to the fact that it will interfere with the traffic in other runways . <URL> Number 36 is not painted .
All wings warp . The extent of warping is one restriction which limits the fast side of the <URL> . Once aircraft designers realized that thick wings have less drag , they tried to build their wings as stiff as possible . Stiff wings allow to use airfoils with rear loading , will have <URL> and keep their shape even when operating at high dynamic pressure . Since the center of pressure moves chordwise on cambered airfoils depending on the angle of attack , any cambered wing will suffer from pitching moments around its axis of elasticity . This moment will <URL> and change the incidence of the outer wing sections . A stiff wing will suffer less twisting and stay closer to its ideal aerodynamic shape . Add an aileron , and another twisting moment is added on top . Now the wing twists opposite to the aileron deflection ! This can become so bad that most of the aileron 's effectiveness is lost as the wing is warped in a way which counteracts the lift change of the aileron . The <URL> uses this effect with an array of leading and trailing edge devices to actively warp the wing in the desired direction . Using computer-controlled deflections of small but very effective control surfaces , it creates a desired deformation of the wing for roll control . This can be compared to the effect a <URL> has on an aileron . The Flettner tab is a small control surface at the trailing edge of a larger control surface and is deflected by the pilot such that it moves the big control surface in opposite direction . It slightly reduces the effectiveness of the big control surface , but needs only a fraction of the stick force , thus helping to manually control big aircraft . Since the active wing warping of the X-53 depends on the proper functioning of the FCS and an array of movable devices , each with its own failure mode , I would hesitate to see this as a clear advantage . It allows , however , to control the aircraft at high dynamic pressure with minimal drag penalties .
Global Starting from the top , we find the International Civil Aviation Organisation ( ICAO ) , which is a United Nations agency . ICAO was formed in 1944 when the Chicago Convention was signed , and initially had 52 member states . Today , 191 states worldwide are members of ICAO . The headquarter is in Montreal , Canada , and there are 7 regional offices . ICAO standards and other provisions are developed in the following forms : Standards and Recommended Practises ( SARPs ) : Technical specifications adopted by the Council of ICAO in order to achieve the highest practicable degree of uniformity in regulations , standards , procedures and organization within air navigation . Member states will conform to standards and will endeavour to conform to recommended practises . States are invited to inform ICAO of non-compliance . Procedures for Air Navigation Services ( PANS ) PANS comprise operating practises and material too detailed for SARPs . They are suitable for application on a worldwide basis . Member states are invited to publish differences between national procedures when considered important in the interest of safety . Regional Supplementary Procedures ( SUPPs ) SUPPs are supplementary procedures which are only valid within one of the ICAO regional office regions . For example , there are supplementary procedures published only valid within the European/North Atlantic region . Also worth mentioning are the International Telecommunication Union ( ITU ) and the World Meteorological Organization ( WMO ) , both of which function on an ( almost ) global level . Regional Below ICAO we have regional organisations . As an example , in Europe , the European Union ( EU ) provides legislations for its member states . Non-regulatory organisations , such as the European Aviation Safety Agency ( EASA ) , assist the EU in developing regulations ( but the EU , not EASA , is the regulatory authority ) . Some areas do not have regional regulators like the EU . In such areas , national regulations are handled directly by national regulators . Within the EU , countries also have national regulators -- but they are bound to base their regulations on EU regulations . National Below the regional level we have national regulators , commonly referred to as civil aviation administrations ( CAA ) . Each country will have their own CAA . One that you will often hear about is the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) , which is the national regulator in the USA . Generally speaking , a national regulator will be following framework regulations published by the national ministry of transport . The term ministry of transport is also sometimes applied to the departments or other government agencies administering transport in nations who do not employ ministers . The framework regulations from the ministry of transport are largely based on ICAO SARPs , PANS , SUPPs and any regional regulations ( such as EU regulations ) . The national regulator will publish detailed regulations , which are adapted by the air navigation service providers , as well as airlines , pilots , air traffic controllers , maintainence companies etc. etc. . The service providers , commonly referred to as ANSPs , are the organisations actually providing air navigation services , such as communication , navigation and surveillance equipment , meteorological services , air traffic management ( including ATC ) , aeronautical information and search and rescue . Most ANSPs operate within a single nation , but there are also multinational ANSPs , a few examples are ASCENA ( Africa and Madagascar ) , COCESNA ( Central America ) , EUROCONTROL ( Benelux ) and NUAC ( Sweden and Denmark ) . The service providers work together with the national regulators to develop detailed procedures , but do not ( usually ) have any regulatory authority .
The answer is yes . One example was on April 2 , 2012 . Helen Collins , an 80-year old Grandmother was forced to take the controls of her husband 's CE-414 and land it at Door Country Cherryland Airport ( KSUE ) after her husband had a massive heart attack at the controls and died . She managed to circle the airfield and call 911 on a cell phone . The emergency dispatcher contacted the FAA who got in touch with ATC . A KSUE based private pilot named Robert Yuksonavich took off and joined her in formation , talking her through what was about to happen and flew her wing on several practice approaches prior to the landing attempt . On landing the Cessna 414 skidded off the runway and came to a stop in the grass , breaking the nose gear off . Helen survived with only minor injuries ; her husband was pronounced dead on the scene . A brief piece by the CBS morning news featuring commentary by Capt Chesly Sullenberger about the incident . This is the full ATC of the accident
In a jet engine using the <URL> , number 4 is the station numbering of combustor exit/turbine nozzle guide vane leading edge , and T4 is the temperature at this station . <URL> ( <URL> ) From this document ( in French ) : <URL> which is a thesis by Elodie Roux , this table on page 198 : <URL> tells us the T4 temperature is 1633 K , that is 1360 ° C.
Generally aircraft windows are made of what we colloquially call " plexiglass " of some kind ( Lexan polycarbonate is common in light General Aviation aircraft , acrylic plastics are also used ) . This material is light , relatively strong ( not shatter-proof , but it 'll take a moderate beating ) and has decent optical properties . Its major drawback is " crazing " -- hairline cracks on the surface of the material that form over time from dirt , stress , temperature , UV exposure , and the like . Bonus answer : The little hole serves a couple of purposes , but the biggie is pressure relief/equalization . <URL> and they 've covered it pretty thoroughly . Basically the hole ensures that the cabin pressure is pushing against the outer ( primary , usually thicker ) sheet of plexiglass , which is plug-wedged into the fuselage structure and ca n't go anywhere . Should the outer pane be damaged the hole will also theoretically bleed cabin pressure off at a controlled rate - though how successful that equalization is would depend on your altitude ( and thus the pressure differential between the cabin and the outside air ) and the degree of damage to the outer pane .
This is a very tricky topic . Basically , you need a clear definition of what is part of the engine-related drag and what is counted towards airframe drag . Splitting up drag between components will always produce an arbitrary result . An intake can generate thrust as well as drag . In case of the SR-71 at Mach 3 , the intake <URL> , if you just look at the pressure distribution over the intake walls . Generally , the job of the intake is to feed air to the engine compressor at just the right speed and as homogeneously as possible . This requires it to suck in air when at rest from all around the aircraft , and to ingest only the core of the stream of air flowing towards it at high speed . What is not ingested needs to flow around the intake lips and the engine fairing , and the drag caused by this process even has its own name , being called <URL> . At high speed the intake needs to slow down the oncoming air and does so already ahead of the intake lip at subsonic speed . At supersonic speed this slowing down is <URL> , which adds another source of drag . This can be easily counted as part of the airframe drag , but done right this slowing down will compress the air , which in turn will increase thrust . Apart from viscous losses , this compression pays for itself and is almost drag-neutral in a good design and at ideal conditions . Next is the flow around the intake . Just throttling the engine will change the airflow through it and thus the flow pattern around the intake . You can imagine that some configurations show marked changes in aerodynamic drag depending on the throttle setting . In case of the Eurofighter , the vicinity of the canard will even cause throttle changes to result in notable pitch moment changes . To answer your question : Yes , the intake will produce drag , and how much it does depends on how you define drag . It is certainly wrong to think that the stream tube hitting the intake will just disappear into it and not add any drag .
When the controller says heading , he means heading . So if he wants you to go into a specific direction , he will take wind into account . The reason for issuing heading are : Every aircraft can fly it , because a compass is fitted on every aircraft . Track keeping requires more sophisticated avionics . If two aircraft fly adjacent to each other , the wind will offset them by the same amount and therefore separation is assured . Quite often a controller will ask you to report your present heading prior to instructing a one so he can make more accurate adjustments to your course , especially if you were under own navigation before being vectored . With Mode S radars and the right equipment in the aircraft , the current heading can be downloaded from the avionics without the pilot being aware of it .
In general ATC is not aware of any RA occurring in aircraft , and is neither aware of the RA content . The crew informs ATC using a phraseology described in ICAO <URL> PANS-ATM , Chapter 12 , Para 12.3.1.2 : When the RA occurs , and the crew must deviate from ATC instructions , they inform ATC with " TCAS RA " when possible . If an ATC instruction is received , which contradicts a current RA , they inform ATC with " Unable , TCAS RA " . The crew then informs ATC when the RA has ended , with " Clear of conflict , returning to ( the ATC clearance ) " , and " resumed " when done . As @J . Hougaard mentioned , there are some experimentation going on to downlink RA to ATCO display , but nothing mandatory , the information displayed varies and somehow conflict , or introduces a confusion , with ICAO recommendations . So far it seems <URL> capability . More on <URL> . When informed , ATC does n't provide further instructions to this aircraft before receiving the " clear of conflict " confirmation . RA always takes precedence on ATC and must be followed by the crew , even if the crew has the intruder in sight and another safe maneuver could be executed as well . The reason is because there is no certainty that the aircraft they have in sight is the conflicting one , or is the only conflicting one . See <URL> and <URL> . ( Indeed a pilot can deviate from anything , but must later demonstrate that they were justified in doing this ) .
end question
start question
How do airliner manufacturers come up with typical capacities of their planes ?
These numbers are based on mixed-class configurations and use of floor space for other things . The A380 for instance can theoretically be configured with 853 " economy " seats , but no-one I know of has bought one configured that way . Typical first-business-economy configuration is 525 , and Emirates seats just 489 because its first-class section is basically staterooms , and it has showers and a bar taking up floor space ( it also has an excellent and large business class instead of using the back half of both decks for coach ) . When designing an aircraft 's seating capacity , especially for long-haul flights , total cabin weight ( passengers and cargo ) must be taken into account . The more stuff you 're hauling , the less weight allowance you have for fuel , and therefore your range is reduced . Therefore , increased room per passenger on long-haul flights is n't just for passenger comfort , it 's often a necessity to reduce total cabin weight and thus be able to max out the fuel load to get between the airports non-stop . Operators of shorter flights do n't care as much because you can pack them in like sardines and still have plenty of fuel to get them where they 're going . Therefore , dimensions of various classes of seat differ by airline , aircraft and route ( Lufthansa , for instance , operates three different A380 configurations based on the routes they run ) . The typical coach seat is between 17 and 19 inches wide ( including half the armrest ) , and has a " pitch " ( space between seats which determines the legroom and ability to recline ) of between 31 and 35 inches . For business class in three-class planes it gets a bit better ; seat width averages about 21 " and a pitch of about 38 " ( more for planes outfitted with lay-flat seats ) . First class ranges widely by aircraft type and airline ( it 's truly " first-class " in aircraft with three-class configuration ; in two-class what 's called " first " is closer to business class ) , but typically offers room to spare especially on long-hauls . Coupled with required/desired aisle widths and additional amenities that widen the seats or replace them in certain areas of the cabin , it 's fairly academic to count up how many seats you can fit aboard a particular airframe .
There 's seldom a reason for manufacturers to design and build their own black boxes . It 's expensive to run a production line to design , build a test a few . It 's just cheaper to get an agreement with a company to make them for you . The second photo below shows a popular recurring model from Honeywell , which appears to have been used on the A330 , B737 and B777 . Opening the black box can be a sensitive operation , especially if there 's the fear that the chips might have been damaged . It 's better to send it to somebody who 's done it before rather than trying to master it on the first attempt , especially if you do n't have the resources . Airplanes accidents do n't happen very often . Note that the case you 're referring to , the Aircraft also appears to have been built by Airbus in Hamburg , and hence the <URL> automatically gets involved as well , much like how the NTSB gets involved in all Boeing crashes . <URL> A smashed up flight data recorder . <URL> A photo from the NTSB with the Asiana flight 214 recorders Another reason for this is if there might be political motives behind the crash , it 's preferred to send it to a third party for analysis which is less susceptible to bias or interference . If I gather correctly , data on the flight data recorder wo n't be encrypted at all - it will be fed out as serial data , but you will need the devices and software to understand this information , and if the outside connection is broken , you 'll need to work your way to the chips themselves . <URL> Photo showing apparently how black box are ' read ' . Furthermore , sending it to the company is not always a good idea - they might have motives to change the truth , especially if it was caused by dodgy maintenance or bad training , nor to the manufacturer , if it was production error . The accident investigation board is the best people for this matter .
Well , yes , bigger wings to provide better lift , but the also produce more induced drag in the process . The wings on an airliner are optimized for cruise in high subsonic and transonic flight where a slender , swept wing works well . While this is great for cruise flight , the trade-off is this style of wing requires a very high approach speed for landings which in turn require very long runways to accelerate the airplane on to reach rotation speed for takeoff or to decelerate the aircraft on once it has landed . The Boeing Company successfully addressed these problems in the early 1960 with the development of the 727 airplane as a regional airliner . It made use of a type of flaps called <URL> ( see Fig 1 ) in concert with leading edge extensions . Fowler flaps . These style of flaps consist of a series of segments attached to tracks or support linkages running chordwise , allowing the flaps segments to extend and retract by rolling along said tracks . <URL> Fig 1 . Typical Fowler flap installation When deployed these give the effect of changing the airfoil shape from a slender , slightly cambered airfoil into a wide airfoil with a large camber . Fowler flaps have an additional advantage to them in that partial deployment creates a large increase in lift with limited additional drag , very useful for takeoff , while when fully deployed they create a lot of drag in addition to higher lift .
They are flown to their customers by either Boeing or pilots from the given airline . As for the Boeing factory its self , the <URL> users Paine Field as their runway . If you look closely there is a <URL> and connects the plant to the main ramp of the airport . This appears to be painted for car traffic but is also used for aircraft . The <URL> lies adjacent to Renton Municipal which it uses to fly the aircraft in and out there <URL> . Similarly the main airbus factory is located next to <URL> . <URL> lies next to <URL> .
There are generally two ways of determining the ground speed from within the aircraft . The first is by using an inertial navigation system . This consists of a number of accelerometers and gyroscopes that measure all accelerations and rotations of the aircraft throughout a flight . By mathematically integrating all measurements this navigation system is able to compute the speed and position of the aircraft at any time . The accuracy will degrade over time but ground speed is usually not far off , otherwise position would be far off very soon . The second method uses external radio signals . Nowadays this is mostly GPS , but ground speed is also determined by using a number of VOR ( VHF Omnidirection Range ) and/or DME ( Distance Measuring Equipment ) stations . These navigation beacons are widely available over most continents . A navigation computer would select the right set of beacons and by analysing the rate of change of the beacon bearings / distances the aircraft 's speed can be determined . Modern navigation systems combine all these methods into a one solution . GPS , inertial navigation and DME measurements are then fused mathematically together to obtain a highly accurate and robust position and ground speed .
Yes they do . You can <URL> . That 's a failed launch from an aircraft carrier , the crew jettisoned the bombs before they ejected . More information here : <URL> , emphasis on use in aircraft carrier launches , hardpoints also carry external fuel tanks . ... if forced to land in an emergency ? If not , why ? For extreme military emergencies , which usually never end well , pilots have the option to just bail out ( eject ) and parachute to safety . For big bombers , like the B-52 , the crew can also eject . But ca n't dump fuel . <URL> But the question is about weapons , so again yes , mainly for carrier launches , else , a crew ejection is more likely . <URL> for fuel dumping by USAF planes ( USAF report , PDF ) , if interested .
New airliners without a buyer will be handled on a case-by-case basis . Of course manufacturers prefer to not be in such a situation , and there is no standard system for handling this . However , there are some typical ways that this is handled . One option it to <URL> . This is the same ( and pretty much only ) option that is used for aircraft without engines . This has the advantage of being easier to work in and deliver , but will of course take up valuable space . To save space at the factory , the aircraft can be moved somewhere else . <URL> , but <URL> . <URL> , <URL> . Of course the manufacturer has spent money assembling the aircraft , and it is costing money to have it sit somewhere , so they will be eager to cut their loss as much as possible . These aircraft will probably be offered at a significant discount compared to placing a new order . However , buyers may prefer to wait and receive an aircraft straight from the factory , rather than one that has been sitting in storage for a while . There may also be issues with customized options applied for an original buyer that would need to be refurbished or accepted by a new buyer . <URL> and <URL> is not unheard of and is part of the business of making aircraft . It may be that no one is willing to buy an aircraft , or the aircraft would otherwise not be economical to put in service . The aircraft may in this case be sent to a museum , as with the RJX . In a similar case , the first three 787 aircraft were not deemed economical to put into commercial service after the test program , and <URL> . The last resort would be to <URL> . This is certainly disappointing for a new aircraft , but in some cases it is the only option left to regain any value .
Do they kill people on the ground ? Almost certainly a few do . People struck by falling bullets are more likely to die than people shot directly . The chances of a particular bullet falling onto a person are very small but over the decades , many many bullets have been fired by aircraft . Handgun bullets Between the years 1985 and 1992 , doctors at the King/Drew Medical Center in Los Angeles , California , treated some 118 people for random falling-bullet injuries . Thirty-eight of them died . Bullets fired into the air during celebrations return at a speed fast enough to penetrate the skin and cause internal damage to other organs in the path of the migrating bullet . The bullet 's velocity required for skin penetration is between 148 and 197 feet per second . A velocity of less than 200 feet per second , which is easily obtained by a celebratory gunfire , is capable of fracturing bone and even causing intracranial penetration [ 4 ] . Spent bullets have the capability of reaching up to 600 feet per second during their downfall , and thus they have the ability to inflict damage to multiple body cavities [ 4 ] . The larger caliber bullets ( ie , .45 - caliber ) reach a higher terminal velocity compared with the smaller caliber bullets ( ie , .30 - caliber ) , because of the proportion of their weight to their diameter [ 4 ] . From <URL> For those hit by falling bullets , the chance of the wound being fatal was far higher than a typical shooting . The hospital put deaths from regular shootings between 2 % and 6 % , while for those struck by falling bullets the death rate was close to one third . From <URL> Aircraft rounds These falling bullets were from celebratory gunfire , not fired from aircraft . Aircraft cannon fire projectiles which are often much heavier than handgun rounds . If one falls on you , the likelihood of injury or death must be higher . .22 Winchester magnum rimfire and .50 Browning MG rounds at same scale . <URL>
$ V _ { ne } $ is typically set to about 90 % of $ V_D $ , the maximum design dive speed . This difference provides a safety margin . Above $ V_D $ , damage may occur due to flutter or structural failure , or controllability considerations may make the aircraft unflyable . The aircraft is not guaranteed to fall apart at $ V_D $ due to additional structural and manufacturing margins . During flight test , the aircraft is flown above $ V _ { ne } $ , up to , or close to , $ V_D $ . Appropriate safety precautions are taken , e.g. parachute . Any failure below $ V_D $ indicates a design or manufacturing issue that must be resolved prior to certification . The limitation to flight below $ V _ { ne } $ ( as opposed to $ V_D $ ) during regular operations provides protection against airspeed measurement errors , pilot errors and some margin against structural degradation over the lifetime of the aircraft .
You 're correct that there are two ways to connect the tug with an aircraft . In case a tow bar is used , it is fixed laterally at the nose landing gear , while allowing slight movement for height adjustment . Usually , the tow bar may pivot freely laterally and vertically at the end that attaches to the tug rather than the aircraft end , which is fixed . The following image shows the tow bar attachment point in Airbus A380 . <URL> Image from alamy.com . The attachment points differ from aircraft to aircraft , so the tow bar basically operates as an adapter between the aircraft and the tug . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . When using a towbarless tug , the nose wheel is simply scooped off the ground using hydraulic ( for large aircraft ) or electric power . The tug has a movable arm , which is opened and the tug is moved and placed so that the nose wheel fits inside the fixed arms of the tug . The movable arm is then closed . The movable arm and the opposite side has sloping edges , over which the wheels slide and the nose is lifted off as the arm closes due to hydraulic power . This video shows how its done in case of Airbus A380 . Video from Youtube : How to lift up the world 's largest commercial aircraft the Airbus A380 . by user Kasavubu The nose wheel dimensions and aircraft weight do matter and tugs are certified for different ramp weights .
I 've heard it said that the break-even point for owning vs renting is 200 hours/year . I fly a lot less than that , but I do n't like sharing my toys , so I own anyway . I make it a point to not actually count my cost of ownership , because it would n't be fun any more , but I 'll give you some rough numbers . I bought a 1962 Mooney for \ $ 30,000 . That 's about as cheap as it gets , and this was reflected in the condition of the plane and the high-time engine . In the first year had it , I spent \ $ 18,000 on an engine rebuild , new prop , new carb , new magnetos , new oil pump , and all the other firewall-forward upgrades that were required when I got the new engine . Five years later , I spent \ $ 14,000 on new paint . It still needs a new interior , but that can wait . I spent about \ $ 3000 at West Texas Aero installing speed upgrades . Budget \ $ 10/hour for your next engine rebuild . Annual inspection typically runs \ $ 3000 to \ $ 6000 depending on what they find wrong . I 'm getting a tank resealed this year , so it 's going to be an expensive one . Parking runs typically \ $ 50 - \ $ 100/month , depending on where you are . Insurance for my old crate runs \ $ 750/year . Expect to pay more for a nicer plane or if you have less experience . Note : get a commercial license ; it will pay for itself in reduced insurance in the long run . I think gas will typically run \ $ 5-6 / gallon , depending on a lot of factors . My Mooney burns around 9.5 gph , and flies 142 kts so it 's really economical in that respect ( and the main reason I do n't upgrade ) . Light twins are cheap to buy , but that 's because their cost of ownership is through the roof . A low-time pilot can expect to pay \ $ 12,000 / year for insurance and the annual inspection will also be a back-breaker . I used to have money . Now I have an airplane .
During initial and upgrade training you will fly many V1 cuts . At every recurrent check ride you 'll experience V1 cuts both as pilot flying and non flying pilot . In our sim events the V1 cut would generally be a 600 RVR takeoff with 10 kt direct crosswind from the side that would fail . Not always though -- you expected the V1 cut on every takeoff .
Its a bit dated but here is a <URL> . Keep in mind these are navy pilots , often considered the best of the best and in peek physical condition . Based on the publish year I would suspect all subjects were male as well . Here is <URL> on reaction times for pilots on low sleep . This is <URL> , might be of some help . An additional question I have related to this is , how can one design an aircraft to make it difficult for pilots to enter PIO 's ? This is an interesting question and in some regards could be its own question here . One of the big debates ( mainly between Boeing and Airbus ) is if systems like this should exist and who has the final say in terms of control deflection . Airbus takes the approach that the computers should prevent the pilot of say pulling back on the stick and stalling the plane . While Boeing generally allows pilots to be the final say and while their systems will warn of a stall you can ultimately pill back the column until the plane stalls . In terms of how you would design something like this you would have to limit control input after an approach to oscillation was detected .
Not only some , but in fact most GA propeller-driven aircraft have propellers that extend below the bottom of the fuselage . ( The only exception that quickly comes to mind is the <URL> ; I 'm sure there are plenty of others . ) Note that the aircraft will have some secondary method of gear extension , such as gravity drop , a manual crank , or a blow-down bottle . But there are still times where the gear can not be extended and locked . In this situation , you 've got one emergency . Do n't make it two emergencies by shutting down your engine . There 's an aphorism - " If the gear fails , the insurance company just bought the airplane . " 1 Without gear , you 're going to do some damage : scraped belly , probably tearing off some antennas . The aircraft will already require maintenance ; the extra time and cost of an engine teardown is insignificant compared to the increased risk from a higher workload and a landing that the pilot may not have ever practiced before . ( The approach with gear up and engine out will be different than that with gear down and engine at idle in a simulated engine failure . ) Do n't risk your life to save the insurance company money . Additionally , just stopping the engine is n't sufficient to prevent a teardown . You must also rotate the prop so that it 's horizontal , which requires slowing substantially as you pull the mixture to stop it from windmilling , and then using the starter to move the prop. 2 You 'd need to prevent any substantial contact between the propeller and runway , as <URL> on propstrikes that require inspection and repair ( Continental 's is similar ) includes the situation of Any incident , whether or not the engine is operating , where repair of the propeller is necessary After all of that , there are some best practices : Declare an emergency . ATC will help you , have equipment ready on the ground , and clear traffic around you - but they need to know about it first . Use your checklist . An airplane with retractable gear will have an entry for gear failure ; follow it . In particular , you 'll shut down the electrical system before landing , and probably brace open a door for exit . Land on a paved surface . Dirt or grass may seem softer , but they are n't as smooth . According to <URL> , " Statistics suggest that putting the airplane on the asphalt is likely to cause less damage to you and your airplane than putting it on the grass . " ( 1 ) I 've also heard " The insurance company buys the aircraft when you take off ; when you land safely , you buy it back . " ( 2 ) Or you could do it in the flare - a suggestion so dangerous I include it only for completeness .
The 747-8 has three packs , and it is feasible to complete the flight with one of them inoperative ( in case of aircraft with two packs , cabin altitude can be maintained win any one ) . The following is taken from the <URL> : <URL> Screengrab from <URL> As can be seen , flight is possible with some limitations . In case of a failure in-flight , the flight crew would follow the applicable checklist and decision will be taken whether to continue the flight or not ( as altitude is limited ) . In case of failure , the appropriate warning message will be displayed ( the pack , sensor , valve etc. )
What kind of plane is good for this type of flight ? The cheap kind . Joking aside , the exact airplane to use depends on the size of the banners or billboards you 're going to be towing , but generally speaking you want something reasonably rugged , with good slow flight characteristics , sufficient engine power to be able to overcome the added drag from the banner , and , hopefully , some decent fuel consumption . I 'm not entirely kidding about the cheap part though ; banner towing is hard on the airplanes and carries a higher-than-average degree of risk , so you do want to stay away from airplanes that will be expensive to fix , if you can help it . As for specific types , I 've seen banners towed with everything from -152 s to Grumman Agcats ; a large banner tow operation apparently had a Super Cub with an O-540 bolted to it , so you 'll see a ton of different things , but tailwheels seem to be the norm , at least in the US , and many outfits will make additional modifications such as removing engine cowlings to help with cooling . With banners they appear to be flying slower than usual . Is this just an illusion ? No , they are indeed flying slower . First of all , the added drag from the banner slows the airplane down all by itself . Secondly , you 're being paid to advertise , so you want to make sure that people can read whatever sign you 're towing . You 're not flying the ragged edge of the stall ( it 's dangerous , uneconomical , and unnecessarily hard on the engine ) , but you 're probably going to be flying on the backside of the power curve . What are the practical or regulatory requirements that the plane must meet to be capable ? In addition to the practical considerations we 've talked about above , banner towing operations require a waiver from the FAA . The company has to apply for it and every pilot must be trained in banner tow operations , pass a review from an approved FAA inspector ( who will be watching you perform picks and drops from the ground ) , and be added to the waiver . The aircraft and tow hitch mechanisms also have to be inspected and approved for banner tow operations , and added to the waiver . <URL> is the current FAA Banner Tow Information handbook , covering equipment , operations , waiver information , and other assorted miscellaneous if you 're curious to learn more .
I 'll limit my answer to single-engine seaplanes as I 've never flown a multi-engine seaplane . Typically there is no need to stay stationary in the water when doing a run-up . Just do it while taxiing to your takeoff path , or you can do it on your takeoff path . If the takeoff path is n't long enough to do the run-up and then continue along the path for the takeoff , you can turn around , taxi back along the takeoff path , and then takeoff . At typical run-up power settings , if you hold full up elevator , the airplane will simply mush along on the water since you wo n't have anywhere near enough power to get it up on the step . In other words , you wo n't be going very fast . When giving floatplane instruction , one of the first things I tried to impress on students was to not think in terms of the constraints of straight , hard-surface , defined runways , taxiways and the like . There 's no need , typically , to taxi in a straight line , make well-defined taxiing turns , and no need to takeoff in a straight line . Once away from the dock or beach , the airplane is going to weather vane unless you actively oppose that , and that weathervaning is going to have a component caused by the current , if any , of the water you 're on . In my experience , most of the time the takeoff path was either dictated directionally ( a river ) or pretty much wide open ( lake or reservoir ) . For new students in my area , reservoirs were preferred . More often than not , it was a matter of getting a short ways off the dock , do the checks other than the run-up while moving away from the shore at a 90 degree angle more or less , lift the water rudder , bring the stick all the way back , and do the run-up , all the while letting the aircraft weathervane into the wind . Then just takeoff . I never flew a twin-engined seaplane , but I see no reason why you could n't bring both engines up to the run-up rpm , do the checks on one and then the other . While checking the mags , carb heat , and props , there would be a little asymmetrical thrust , but not enough that the rudder could n't handle that .
Many ( especially larger ) airlines have a history and infrastructure for engines from a specific manufacturer and are unlikely to change that , the cost would extend far beyond just the cost of changing the contract . E.g. KLM has a massive investment in maintenance facilities for GE engines , workshops , spare parts warehouses , highly trained specialised technicians . Retooling to RR would be prohibitive for them . Of course a smaller operation without maintenance facilities of their own might be more flexible in that and just buy whatever is cheapest at the time , contracting out maintenance to various companies as needed . But even then , it 's often more economical to have a single maintenance provider doing all your work for you , which might well mean a provider who 's specialised in a single series of engines , for example if you 're based at Schiphol there 's a good chance you 'll be contracting out your maintenance to KLM and their GE specialised shops . So there are many good reasons for airlines to stick with a single engine supplier ( and to a degree with a single aircraft manufacturer ) , even if the cost of buying those engines is higher than selecting competing engines from another manufacturer . Say you 're going to save 0.1 % in your fuel bills for the 2 new aircraft you 're buying to increase the fleet of 20 with other engines you have already ( and that 's a big if , those engines are pretty close between manufacturers for a specific aircraft ) . You 'd need to fly a LOT for it to be worth building an entire duplicate maintenance network just for those few new aircraft . Of course if it 's part of a long term plan to replace the entire fleet with aircraft using that other manufacturer 's engines , that 's a different story . But mixed engine fleets tend not to be the most economical way to go , even if on one type manufacturer A is marginally more fuel efficient and on type B manufacturer B is marginally more fuel efficient ( and that 's what you 're going to see , marginal differences only ) . If you 're talking an operation like Delta or United , with hundreds of aircraft of each type , it might be a different story . But then too you 're talking about more aircraft with each manufacturer 's engines than most other airlines have in total , and they 'll have multiple maintenance shops themselves , making it easier to have a facility for each manufacturer ( and of course in case of the big US airlines , they tend to have ended up with that in the course of gobbling up other airlines anyway ) .
This answer details the procedures used in the US . Other countries will be similar , possibly with different names for some positions . When preparing for a flight , after their flight plan has been filed , the pilots will first talk to the clearance delivery controller . This controller clears their planned route and altitude . At larger airports this may be done via text rather than voice . The pilots may also call their company dispatch to get the route or fix any problems . If there are significant delays in effect at the airport , the pilots may have to talk to the metering controller . This controller is responsible for holding aircraft at their gates . Weather at departure or arrival airports may reduce the number of aircraft the airport can handle . There is no sense in sending the aircraft onto the busy taxiways if they will just have to sit there and wait for weather or traffic before they can depart . The metering controller will eventually hand the pilots off to the next controller when the aircraft is finally cleared for departure . Again at larger airports , the next contact will be with the ramp controller . This controller is responsible for a ramp area near the terminals . The controller will let the pilots know when it 's safe to push back , and which way they should turn at the end of the push back . After starting their engines , the pilots will receive instructions for exiting the ramp . Once pilots reach the edge of the ramp area , they will call the ground controller . This controller is responsible for managing traffic on most of the taxiways . The pilots will receive instructions for taxiing to their departure runway . If this route takes them across an active runway , the ground controller will have to clear this with the tower controller , or possibly have the pilots switch to the tower controller for permission to cross the runway . At small airports , the ground controller handles all of the previous positions as well . Upon reaching their departure runway , the pilots will switch to the tower controller . The tower controller is responsible for the active runways . Busy airports may have multiple tower controllers managing different runways . The tower will clear the pilots for takeoff , ensuring proper separation between any other arriving/departing aircraft . Shortly after the aircraft starts climbing , the tower will hand the pilots off to the departure controller . Depending on the location and traffic levels , this could be the same controller and frequency as the approach controller . This position is part of the <URL> ( Terminal Radar Approach Control ) facility . High traffic areas will have their own separate TRACON facility , while in lower traffic areas this will be combined with a tower location . In other countries this is referred to as the Terminal Control Center ( TCC ) . The approach controller 's responsibility is routing aircraft leaving airports in the area to avoid conflicts between aircraft , but often the pilots will just fly the published departure procedure . The departure controller receives reports of weather such as precipitation or icing and passes this on to other aircraft . Upon reaching a certain altitude , the departure will hand the pilots over to the center controller . This position is part of an <URL> ( Air Route Traffic Control Center ) , often abbreviated to " center " . The US has <URL> , each further divided into different sectors . Sectors are consolidated between controllers depending on traffic levels . Other countries refer to this as an Area Control Center ( ACC ) . The center controller is responsible for traffic at higher altitudes , primarily enroute traffic . The aircraft may pass through multiple centers , and each center may have different sectors controlled by different controllers . The pilots will be handed off between these controllers . Pilots must request altitude or course changes ( for efficiency or weather reasons ) , and controllers may issue changes for traffic reasons . Controllers also handle pilot reports of conditions such as turbulence . If the flight is crossing <URL> , the flight may be handed over to an oceanic controller . These controllers do not always have radar coverage of the aircraft they are controlling . They rely on the aircraft following their published routes and altitudes , and providing regular position reports . The lack of radar means there are also more strict rules about deviations from flight plans . As the pilots get closer to their destination , they will start on their arrival procedure . This usually specifies altitudes and possibly speeds , so the pilots will need to plan when to start their descent in order to meet these restrictions . The center controller will know the procedure and instruct them to follow it , and possibly issue deviations as traffic requires . At some point before arriving , the pilots may also contact their company at the arrival airport . They may need to coordinate passenger needs such as wheelchairs or medical/security issues , or commu
Assuming that the pilots have tried everything possible and the gear just does not like to come down : The general rule is to find a long runway , touch down as slow as possible . Here are sections extracted from Boeing 777 's Flight Crew Training Manual : Dumping fuel If time and conditions permit , reduce weight as much as possible by burning off or jettisoning fuel to attain the slowest possible touchdown speed . Elevator After touchdown lower the nose gently before losing elevator effectiveness . Rudder At touchdown speed , the rudder has sufficient authority to provide directional control in most configurations . Speedbrakes ( ... ) speedbrakes should be extended only when stopping distance is critical . Extending the speedbrakes ( ... ) may compromise controllability of the airplane . Reverse Thrust ( ... ) an engine making ground contact could suffer sufficient damage such that the reverse mechanism may not operate . Selecting reverse thrust ( ... ) may produce an additional asymmetric condition that makes directional control more difficult . Reverse thrust should be used only when stopping distance is critical . Landing technique The technique varies with the combination of failure . If one side of the main gears is missing , land the plane to the side of runway which corresponds to the extended main gear . I.e. if the left gear is down and right gear is up , land on the left side of the runway instead of centerline . Maintain wings level for as long as possible , and be prepared to brake on the left side to maintain directional control . If all the gears decide to hide in the gears bay , land on centerline and use rudder to maintain directional control . Rudder is effective until airspeed drops too low . After landing Evacuate the aircraft as necessary !
end question
start question
What is the relation between roll angle and pitch angle ?
Roll , pitch and yaw are rotations about the principle body axis of the aircraft . Roll angle , pitch angle and yaw angle together describe the attitude of an aircraft . The principle body axes are : X-axis is the longitudinal axis pointing out the nose of the aircraft . Rotation about the x-axis is called roll . Roll rate is denoted $ p $ , roll angle is denoted $ \ phi $ Y-axis is the lateral axis pointing out the right wing . Rotation about the Y-axis is called pitch . Pitch rate is denoted $ q $ , roll angle is denoted $ \ theta $ Z-axis is the vertical axis pointing down . Rotation about the Z-axis is call yaw . Yaw rate is denoted $ r $ , roll angle is denoted $ \ psi $ Initially when all angles are 0 , the aircraft is wings level , nose pointing at the horizon and heading north . The angles $ \ phi , \ theta , \ psi $ describe the attitude with respect to this initial positions . They are called <URL> The rotations are applied in backwards order , first yaw ( $ \ psi $ ) , then pitch ( $ \ theta $ ) and finally roll ( $ \ phi $ ) . This describes almost every possible attitude uniquely , unless the pitch angle is + / - 90 degrees . Then roll and yaw will become ambiguous . Now back to your question . Initially on the runway the roll angle of the aircraft is 0 degrees . If the aircraft pitches up ( $ q $ becomes positive for a while ) , the roll angle will not change . However , if initially the roll angle was non-zero , the roll angle will be affected by a pitch-up manoeuvre . You can easily visualise this with your hands . Open your right hand with the palm facing up , you thumb at a right angle to the fingers . The middle finger is the X-axis , the thumb is the Y axis . Now roll your hand 45 degrees counter clockwise , keeping the fingers pointed at the horizon . Your thumb will now point 45 degrees into the air . This was a pure roll manoeuvre , the pitch angle is still 0 degrees . Now flap your hand 90 degrees up using your wrist , this is a pitch up manoeuvre since you rotate about your thumb axis which is the Y axis . Now you see that your fingers are all in the same vertical plane , pointing 45 degrees up to your left . If you describe this position with respect to the initial position , the pitch angle is 45 degrees , and the roll angle is 90 degrees . So pitching 90 degrees resulted only in 45 degrees of pitch , but also in 45 degrees of extra roll . Because the roll-angle was non-zero before we started to pitch , the pitch rotation affect the roll-angle . If your sensor is not aligned with the body axes of the aircraft , you will see a lot of cross-effects between the angles during a take-off . The mathematical relation is well described on <URL> , which is also the source of the images above .
Both pressure and velocity are related : The total energy of an air molecule outside of the boundary layer is constant and the sum of its pressure and its velocity component . Mathematically , the energy per unit of volume is $ $ \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 + p = const $ $ which is actually the simplest form of <URL> which neglects changes in altitude and temperature . In the end , it 's not this causes that , but both components fluctuate in sync and combine to a constant total . Nomenclature : $ \ rho \ :\ : $ density $ v \ :\ : $ speed $ p \ :\ : $ pressure
Pitch is measured with respect to a plane orthogonal to the local weight ¹ force , which is properly called the horizontal . That is used because : It is equipotential plane of the gravitational field . Moving around it wo n't change your potential energy . Is always well defined . Is smooth and locally flat ( it is still a spherical surface globally , of course ) . Can be measured by averaging inertial forces on board without external reference . It is called simply horizon , presumably because looking at the horizon is the easiest way to find that plane by human senses . Using ground , which is not flat , as reference would n't work . Aircraft need to fly mostly along the equipotential plane , because climbing to a higher one requires adding more energy by the engines and descending below means the aircraft accelerates and needs to dissipate ( = waste ) the energy . So following terrain would require quite a bit more energy than flying horizontal . Plus it would be very complicated . ¹ By weight I mean the sum of gravity and centrifugal force in the reference frame rotating with Earth .
It 's not this does that and nothing else . It is always a combination . In climb you need to provide more energy to the aircraft because you are increasing it 's potential energy . This can be taken from the energy which would have been spent to overcome drag in horizontal flight by flying slower . Less energy is needed to sustain the now lower flight speed , so some is left for climbing . When you pull on the stick , you trim the aircraft for a lower flight speed ( at least if you fly a naturally stable configuration ) , so some of the excess energy needs to be spent in other ways . The aircraft climbs . If you advance the throttle , the trimmed speed will stay the same , but now more energy is available to be spent . It will be spent on climbing , because speed is already set by your elevator angle . In a non-supercharged ( normally aspirated ) piston engine , the decreasing air density with increasing altitude will provide less air with every filling of the pistons . You need to lean the engine to keep the fuel-to-air ratio constant , so the engine will consume less fuel at the same engine speed , but also provide less power and thrust . Since air is also thinner for all other parts of the airplane , your true air speed will increase , your drag will decrease at the same true air speed and you can fly faster . But since your normally aspirated engine will provide less power , you need to advance the throttle in order to keep your attitude , speed , and climb rate . At some point , you will reach maximum power , and as you climb further , climb speed will decline until you reach the maximum flight altitude your airplane is capable of . Flying higher will increase the efficiency of the engine due to lower air temperature , but this effect is small for piston-powered aircraft . Once you switch to supercharged aircraft , turboprops , and jets , however , <URL> . Flight speed , however , does make a substantial difference , especially for piston-powered aircraft . Their <URL> is $ c_L = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ Lambda } $ and is rather high . Flying low means that you will fly a lot faster than what this optimum demands , and the higher you fly , the closer you will be to this optimum , simply because your engine will not allow a higher speed . That is why flying higher helps to fly more efficiently .
My answer may not directly answer your question but from <URL> , I extract data for year 2014 and put in table as follow : note that total number of crew does not add up with each type of crew in the table Hope it gives you some idea about the ratio of pilot and flight attendant
<URL> In most planes , the Hobbs clock is started and stopped based on an oil pressure switch , so it starts when the engine starts , and stops when the engine is shut-down . While it 's running , it just ticks off a tenth of an hour every 6 minutes , based on " regular wall clock time " . So a tenth of idling on the ramp is the same as a tenth at cruise . <URL> The tach clock is n't really a clock at all , it does n't actually measure time , it really measures engine revolutions . But it 's calibrated such that a tenth of an hour of tach time is clicked off when the engine is at cruise RPM for 6 minutes . In other words , if the plane is at cruise RPM , the tach clock will be clicking off tenths of an hour at the same rate as the Hobbs clock , and the same as the watch on your wrist . But if the engine is idling at an RPM speed that 's half of what cruise RPM is , then the tach clock will be running at half the speed of the Hobbs clock . Relation So , for the tach clock , less " time " is clocked when the plane is idling on the ramp , or flying at low RPM . For short flights ( where ramp idling time is a significant percentage of total time ) , and flights where you 're doing a lot of pattern work ( and thus operating at low RPM ) , tach time will be significantly less than Hobbs time . Maintenance When an engine is replaced or overhauled , that engine is considered to be " zero time " . Whether they actually reset the tach gauge to 0 when the engine is overhauled , or if there 's a way to put a time on a brand new tach or Hobbs meter when the old one dies and is replaced , I dunno , but in general , I 'd assume that the aircraft 's engine and airframe log books are really the official recording of the progression of airframe/engine times , so I do n't know that it 's particularly important whether the tach is set to the engine 's time , or if it 's really just used as an incremental meter . AOPA has a nice ( and long ) <URL> about this .
Non-regulatory airspace is <URL> , <URL> , Alert Areas , and Controlled Firing Areas <URL> , <URL> . Other information should be located in the <URL> Ch 3-4 , Special Use Airspace . Specifically 3-4-1 ( c ) Basically non-regulatory areas mean that the FAA does not make regulatory enforcement in those areas due to special ( military ) operations . Usually the non-enforcement is only for participating aircraft , and generally recreational/commercial aircraft would not fall under any non-regulatory rules . For example , in an active MOA with aircraft practicing low-altitude speed runs , the FAA would not enforce the 250 knot speed limit on participating aircraft . This is in the AIM , Ch 3 Section 4 , Part 5 ( b ) Military pilots flying in an active MOA are exampted from the provisions of 14 CFR Section 91.303 ( c ) and ( d ) which prohibits aerobatic flight within Class D and E surface areas and within Federal Airways . Additionally the Department of Defense has been issued an authorization to operate aircraft at indicated airspeeds in excess of 250 knots below 10,000 feet MSL within active MOAs . . For another example , consider warning areas , which are areas extending 3 miles from the coast . Since this area may include international waters ( think of the area between Alaska and Russia ) , the FAA ca n't really regulate operations in all these areas . The US Navy also controls some of these areas and " shares " jurisdiction with the FAA .
First it is beneficial to have an idea how the <URL> . With <URL> , the suction peak on the upper side is already well developed at smaller angles of attack , so the surrounding air will be accelerated towards that low pressure area . Now you need to extend that mental picture to 3D . The inner wing has those flaps deployed and , consequently , a suction peak near the leading edge and low pressure on the whole upper side . This will also suck in air from the side . As a consequence , the flow moving towards the outer wing will see a similar upward acceleration as does the flow streaming towards the inner wing , plus a sideways acceleration . This acceleration increases the local angle of attack at the leading edge of both wing sections . If the outer wing was already close to its stall angle of attack before the flaps were lowered , now the increased angle of attack will push the flow beyond the stall condition . The geometrical angle of attack ( measured as the angle between the flow direction at infinity and the reference length of the airfoil ) did not change . The " real " angle of attack as experienced by the outer wing , however , will produce a flow similar to what would normally only be experienced at a higher geometrical angle of attack . This moves the outer wing into the stall region when the inner wing still works in the linear realm . This can lead to asymmetric stalls which produce a strong and sudden rolling moment , and at low altitude that is the last thing you need while lining up with the runway . Adding <URL> will move the stall angle of attack up a few degrees , and now it will again be the inner wing which stalls first , as it should .
If you keep increasing your angle of attack , your drag will increase and combined with the increasing along trajectory component ( your path angle will increase ) of the weight vector will slow you down ( assuming your thrust does not exceed your weight + drag ) . Because you slow down , your lift will decrease . The lift will now be less than the across trajectory component of the weight vector and the flight path will become less steep . I do n't understand your second point . The critical angle of attack is where the maximum lift coefficient occurs . If you increase the angle of attack further , the wing will stall and the lift will decrease . This does not occur at Vx
Check out this <URL> it provides a nice overview of some of the basics and how some of the systems are set up . Does the auto-throttle send its command directly to the EEC or to the mechanical throttle ? This may vary from design to design but the <URL> that physically move the throttle levers . You can read up on the <URL> . Are the throttle levers customized/calibrated for an engine model , or are their output standardized ( assuming the output is an electric signal ) . Does the electronic engine control apply further adjustment to the throttle input ? It seems that <URL> instead of mechanically actuating anything . With that in mind Im sure there are older designs out there that are closer to or a complete direct linkage from lever to engine . Is this correction transmitted back to the throttle lever ? I dont think so , it seems that when say full throttle is applied the throttle control will remain at full and the FADEC unit will take care of spooling it up as need be . Likewise if an engine suddenly cuts out or fuel flow becomes restricted as far as I know the throttles will remain in place . Auto throttle units will however physically actuate the throttles as need be . As per the comments here it seems this is only the case in Boeing aircraft . Airbus throttles must be set to maximum setting auto-throttle is allowed to use .
The angle of attack is the angle between the wing ( wing chord to be precise ) and the direction of travel ( undisturbed airflow ) . The angle of pitch is the angle between the main body axis and the horizon . The difference can theoretically be any angle , but during normal flight it will be limited to about 15 degrees . The reason that the angle of attack sensor was inoperative was due to low airspeed . Below 60 knot IAS the indication is unreliable and therefore the indicator is inhibited . This also inhibits the stall warning . This lead to the confusing situation that lowering the nose to correct the stall increased the airspeed beyond 60 knots , thereby reactivating the stall warning .
There are indeed only two ' official ' classifications of aviation incidents , which are defined in <URL> . Accident . An occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft which takes place between the time any person boards the aircraft with the intention of flight until such time as all such persons have disembarked , in which : a ) a person is fatally or seriously injured as a result of being in the aircraft , or direct contact with any part of the aircraft , including parts which have become detached from the aircraft , or direct exposure to jet blast , except when the injuries are from natural causes , self inflicted or inflicted by other persons , or when the injuries are to stowaways hiding outside the areas normally available to the passengers and crew : or b ) the aircraft sustains damage or structural failure which : adversely affects the structural strength , performance or flight characteristics of the aircraft , and would normally require major repair or replacement of the affected component , except for engine failure or damage . when the damage is limited to the engine , its cowlings or accessories : or for damage limited to propellers , wing tips , antennas , tires , brakes , fairings , small dents or puncture holes in the aircraft skin : or c ) the aircraft is missing or is completely inaccessible . Note I. -- For statistical uniformity only , an injury resulting in death within thirty days of the date of the accident is classified as a fatal injury by ICAO . Note 2 . -- An aircraft is considered to be missing when the official search has been terminated and the wreckage has not been located . And then there is Incident . An occurrence , other than an accident , associated with the operation of an aircraft which affects or could affect the safety of operation . They do also define ' serious incident ' , but simply as an incident which was nearly an accident ; which is still an ' incident ' by the definition above .
Fail-safe does not necessarily imply that the system will continue operating after a fail . If the system stops operating but does not create a dangerous situation , it is still fail-safe . A non-essential service on board an aircraft such as the entertainment system can be fail-safe if it just stops operating because a fuse blows . If the fuse does not blow and as a result the system catches fire after a short-circuit , it is not fail-safe . Fail-soft does indeed mean that after a failure , essential services are still functional , although in aviation context this is mostly refereed to as graceful degradation . A fly-by-wire system such as on board the A320 is fail soft : If all functions , the system flies with normal law active , providing protections against getting into unsafe regions of the flight envelope . Upon certain detected failures , the system switches to alternate law , still with some protections in place . Upon further failures , the system switches to direct law : no more flight envelope protections , just surface deflection proportional to stick deflection . So this system is fail-soft and fail safe . The electronic flight control system as a whole is fail safe : if all flight computers are lost , the system has hydro-mechanical connections from pedals to the rudder and from the trim wheel to the the stabiliser . Hydraulic systems require special attention regarding fail-safety , since a stuck servo valve can command a constant velocity : the actuator runs into one of its stops and has a hard-over failure . An elevator that is stuck in full up deflection is not safe , so the pitch control system needs to make provisions for fail-safety if this fault occurs . For instance by allowing left and right elevators to normally work in unison , but uncoupling them after a detection of a hard-over failure . The working elevator can then be commanded to full opposite position , making the elevator system fail-safe but not fail-soft : pitch command must now be done with the stabiliser trim . One elevator stuck in the mid position would be fail-safe , and control with the other elevator provides graceful degradation . The flight control system on board an F-16 is fail-operational : upon a system failure , full system function continues , no degradation . It is quadruple redundant , meaning there are four systems on board that carry out the same function , while only one is required . The four systems function independently , and a monitoring system determines if all four outputs are within a pre-determined range . If three are and one is not , this system is switched off and the other three continue . This can happen once more , but if there are only two systems operational the voting system would not know which of the two has failed .
In the US , the requirements are specified in FAA <URL> , United States Standard for Terminal Instrument Procedures ( TERPS ) . Section 2-3 states : 2-3 . General PA Requirements . See Order 8260.19 for requirements related to GPA/TCH coincidence . a. GPA . Utilize a standard 3-degree GPA where possible . GPAs greater than 3 degrees but not more than the maximum ( table 2-1 ) are authorized without approval when needed to provide obstacle clearance or to meet simultaneous parallel approach standards . Other cases or GPAs less than 3 degrees require Flight Standards or military authority approval ( USAF not applicable ) . <URL> b. TCH . The published TCH ( nearest whole foot ) should accommodate the largest aircraft height group normally expected to use the runway and must not be less than the minimum or exceed the maximum TCH . Note : 60 feet is the maximum TCH regardless of height group . ( 1 ) CAT I . The TCH is based on achieving an acceptable wheel crossing height ( WCH ) . The WCH is the difference between the TCH and the approximate glidepath antenna-to-wheel height ( see table 2-2 ) . ( a ) The optimum TCH provides a 30-foot WCH . It must provide a WCH no less than 20 feet or greater than 50 feet . ( b ) Displaced Threshold Considerations . The TCH over a displaced threshold can result in a WCH of not less than 10 feet if the height of the glide path over the beginning of the full strength runway pavement suitable for landing falls within the minimum/maximum TCH values . ( 2 ) CAT II/III . The optimum TCH is 55 feet and must be between 50 and 60 feet regardless of height group . <URL> Note : To determine the minimum allowable TCH , add 20 feet to the glidepath-to-wheel height and to determine the maximum allowable TCH , add 50 feet to the glidepath-to-wheel height ( not to exceed 60 feet ) . So , the answer to the question is ; No , they are not all 3 degrees and 50 feet .
You are right , the horizontal tail of a conventional airplane appears to have a higher incidence , but the actual angle of attack is smaller than that of the wing . The wing , flying ahead of the tail , produces downwash , so the flow at the tail location has a distinct downward component . The downwash angle can be calculated from the lift coefficient and the geometry of the aircraft : To simplify things , let 's assume the wing is just acting on the air with the density $ \ rho $ flowing with the speed $ v $ through a circle with a diameter equal to the span $ b $ of the wing . If we just look at this stream tube , the mass flow is $ $ \ frac { dm } { dt } = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v $ $ Lift $ L$ is then the impulse change which is caused by the wing and equal to weight . With the downward air speed $ v_z $ imparted by the wing , lift is : $ $ L = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v \ cdot v_z = S \ cdot c_L \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot \ rho $ $ $ S$ is the wing area and $ c_L $ the overall lift coefficient . If we now solve for the vertical air speed , we get $ $ v_z = \ frac { S \ cdot c_L \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot \ rho } { \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v } = \ frac { 2 \ cdot c_L \ cdot v } { \ pi \ cdot AR } $ $ with $ AR = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { S } $ the aspect ratio of the wing . Now we can divide the vertical speed by the air speed to calculate the angle by which the air has been deflected by the wing . Let 's call it $ \ alpha_w $ : $ $ \ alpha_w = arctan \ left ( \ frac { v_z } { v } \ right ) = arctan \ left ( \ frac { 2 \ cdot c_L } { \ pi \ cdot AR } \ right ) $ $ A typical airliner cruise lift coefficient is 0.4 , and a typical aspect ratio is around 8 : This results in a downwash angle of nearly 2 ° if the lift distribution over span is elliptical . In reality , it is more triangular-shaped , so the downwash angle is larger near the center of the aircraft . Note that the engine nacelles of the <URL> are tilted 3 ° up to align them with the local flow . The resulting angle of attack is lower by those 3 ° , and if the angle of attack difference between wing and tail is less than that , the tail surface will appear angled upward . To achieve static stability , the tail will have to fly at a slightly <URL> .
Although the 737 has grown over the years , the 737 and 757 remain in different size classes . Both models can be <URL> certified , although the 757 is more often used in long flights . At the time the 757 was introduced ( in the 80 's ) , the 737 classic series was current . For the <URL> : Passengers : 146 Length : 119 feet Wingspan : 95 feet Wing area : 1135 sq feet MTOW : 138,000 lb Takeoff distance : 8000 feet Range : 2160 nm Thrust : 2x 23,500 lbf Max fuel : 5,311 US gal The 757 was significantly larger . For the <URL> : Passengers : 200 Length : 155 feet Wingspan : 125 feet Wing area : 1951 sq feet MTOW : 255,000 lb Takeoff distance : 6500 feet Range : 4100 nm Thrust : 2x 43,500 lbf Max fuel : 11,489 US gal The 757 is about 35 feet longer , seats about 50 more passengers , and flies about 2,000 nm further ( roughly twice as far ) . The extra range is due to the larger wingspan and longer fuselage , being able to carry more fuel . For this reason , the 757 is used on longer and busier routes , while the 737 is used on shorter , less busy routes . In the 90 's , both models were updated . The 737 was significantly upgraded , including new wings and a new engine , which increased its efficiency . The 737 NG series eventually included the <URL> model , currently the largest 737 model . Passengers : 180 Length : 138 feet Wingspan : 117 feet Wing area : 1341 sq feet MTOW : 187,700 lb Takeoff distance : 9843 feet Range : 3235 nm Thrust : 2x 28,400 lbf Max fuel : 7,837 US gal The <URL> was also introduced . This was a stretched version of the 757-200 . Passengers : 243 Length : 178 feet Wingspan : 125 feet Wing area : 1951 sq feet MTOW : 272,500 lb Takeoff distance : 7800 feet Range : 3595 nm Thrust : 2x 43,500 lb Max fuel : 11,489 US gal Although the more efficiency gains of the new 737 bring the range up to nearly that of the 757 , the 757 remains significantly larger .
You 're right -- the boundary layer is related to lift production since , in a subsonic example , " guides " the air relative to the airfoil shape and enables the necessary flow accelerations that create the pressure differential and downwash . However , a thick boundary layer is not necessarily a good deal , especially on an airplane wing . I think that <URL> makes a good reference here . The thicker than a boundary layer is , the greater the velocity and pressure gradient across it . Therefore , the chance of flow separation ( think of stall , when flow is no longer following the airfoil contour and is creating a ton of drag and not much lift ) is also higher . This consideration is further outlined <URL> ( a major technical university in the Netherlands ) . If the boundary layer is allowed to grow and is allowed to remain laminar , separation occurs relatively early , leading to dramatically increased drag and a similar reduction in lift . Artificial " tripping " ( i.e. , the introduction of turbulence ) of the boundary layer prior to laminar separation re-energizes the boundary layer and allows it to remain attached for longer . It can also decrease your drag by some amount , but that 's another story unto itself . This ( or some more active sort of boundary layer control ) is what I 'm guessing you 're referring to when you talk about keeping the boundary layer thin . It is , with the exception of circulation control and insofar as I 'm familiar with it , related to energizing the boundary layer to delay flow separation as long as possible .
This answer assumes that you are asking about the business name chosen by various air transport companies , such as " American Airlines " vs " British Airways " . Short answer : There is no difference semantically . It 's purely a marketing decision . The company decides which " sounds better " , and uses that as their official business name . There are several other similar nouns used in business names as well : " Air " ( either before or after ) : Air France . Korean Air . Or even as part of the name : Ryanair . " Aviation " : Grant Aviation . And then do n't forget that Delta uses a space : Delta Air Lines . And then there are even some companies using several different nouns throughout their sub-divisions : " Trans Executive Airlines of Hawaii " is the name of a single airline company , but their cargo services are performed under the name " Transair " , and their passenger services are performed under the name " Interisland Airways " Long answer : There is some historical context , going back to the days when ocean travel was the only form of international travel between continents separated by oceans . A " line " was a route between two points . A " liner " , then , was a ship that sailed that line . Since it was on the ocean , it was commonly called an Ocean Liner , and companies that popped up to provide a scheduled service on those lines used the term " line " or " liner " in their name : <URL> , or <URL> . When Trains came into being , they took up the same vernacular from their ocean transport heritage . The system of rails between two points was usually built by a company for its own use , and was sometimes called a " railroad " , or a " railway " , with no discernible reason why some chose one term over the other . The term " line " was still used , interwoven into the industry : a " main line " was a company 's main route between two cities , and a " spur line " would branch off to a smaller town . Some companies named themselves with either the " roads " or the " ways " part : The <URL> , or the <URL> . The next major transformation in the transportation industry was air travel , which again borrowed terminology from both its ocean and rail heritage . An " air line " was a route between two points , and an aircraft providing service on that line was an " air liner " , and company names went one of two directions : Air Lines ( such as " <URL> " ) , or Airways ( such as " <URL> " ) The terms " air liner " ( for an aircraft ) and " air line " ( for a company ) eventually worked their way into the single-word terms as we know them , and they are officially defined , today . But even in the early days , there were still many different nouns working their way into the company names : National Air Transport , Western Air Express , or Ford Air Transport Service . Following the <URL> , ( in which existing companies had to give up their air mail routes ) , many companies either merged or simply changed their names to re-gain air mail contracts . Several companies with names of XXX Air Lines ( with the space ) simply changed to XXX Airlines ( without the space ) , and this is now why we see this term ( Airlines ) in company names today . ( with Delta Air Lines being a notable difference )
All altimeters are " sensitive " to some extent ( an " insensitive " altimeter would be one where the internal pressure-sensing mechanism has failed : the pointer would n't ever move ) . What the FAA calls a " sensitive altimeter " is simply more sensitive than a regular ( now often called non-sensitive ) one : Non-Sensitive altimeters have a 1000-foot scale ( 200-foot tick marks ) as their most precise display . Sensitive altimeters have a 100-foot scale ( 20-foot tick marks ) as their most precise display . The sensitive altimeter in " glass cockpit " displays go even further , often having 1-foot resolution on a digital read-out . Let 's look at some ( analog ) examples : Non-Sensitive Altimeter , not adjustable for barometric pressure <URL> This altimeter is similar to what you 'd find on an old Piper Cub : The scale is marked in thousands of feet , with ticks every 200 feet . This altimeter is not adjustable for " barometric pressure " , but it is adjustable : The little knob on the bottom rotates the face of the altimeter . Put field elevation under the needle before you take off and it should be a reasonable approximation of your current altitude for the duration &amp; distance of a typical Piper Cub flight . These altimeters can only be " set " on the ground , because you need to know your elevation to set the position of the face or needle . Non-Sensitive Altimeter , adjustable for barometric pressure <URL> These show up from time to time : It 's a non-sensitive altimeter ( same scale markings we saw above ) , but it 's adjustable for barometric pressure . The Kollsman window on this one is marked in inches of mercury . When you turn the knob on this altimeter the needle moves and the barometric pressure that corresponds to " zero feet " shows up in the Kollsman window . This makes it easier to read than the previous example , and easier to reset in flight based on radio information : You can set the local barometric pressure ( QNH ) in the Kollsman window and get your current altitude without having to be on the ground at a known elevation . Sensitive altimeter , not adjustable for barometric pressure <URL> In this sensitive altimeter you can see that there is a 100 foot scale ( large pointer ) , and a 1000-foot scale ( small pointer ) . This is a bit of an unusual example : It 's a sensitive altimeter that is NOT adjustable for barometric pressure ( the knob simply adjusts the position of the pointers , and you set it to field elevation like you would with our first example . It ca n't be easily reset in flight as you need to know your current altitude to reset the altimeter correctly . Sensitive Altimeter , adjustable for barometric pressure <URL> This the altimeter most pilots are used to seeing in a " steam gauge " panel : It is a sensitive altimeter ( note the 100-foot scale pointer ) , and it is adjustable for barometric pressure ( note the Kollsman window , marked in millibars in this example ) . This is the type of altimeter required for IFR flight . This one happens to include 3 pointers ( 100-foot , 1,000-foot , and 10,000 foot ) , because it 's calibrated to 20,000 feet . As with most aviation products there is a Technical Standard Order ( TSO ) behind altimeters which would get into all the specific details of the differences . For sensitive altimeters it 's TSO C10 ( I believe C10b is current ) . I 'm not sure if there 's one for a non-sensitive altimeter .
Two things are important here : It is about a glider , so no fuel is consumed , and the mass is constant over time . The angle of attack is constant . This means also that the lift and drag coefficients are constant . If the mass and the lift coefficient are constant , and we assume a constant load factor ( implied by the description ) , the dynamic pressure is also constant , and the airspeed changes with the square root of air density . implies that the altitude decreases , so the indicated speed will be constant , but the true speed will decrease . Unfortunately , the condition e ) is not precise enough to make this distinction . e ) could be correct or not , depending on the definition of V. I would suggest that also c ) could be a correct answer : If the angle of attack and the mass are constant , so should be the drag coefficient . However , gliding down also implies that the <URL> changes because true speed decreases and temperature increases over the glide . Strictly speaking , this would also mean a very slowly changing drag coefficient . Answers b ) and d ) are false and I agree with your reasoning .
end question
start question
What is the difference between a private and a commercial flight according to the US Customs and Border Protection ?
According to the <URL> , this definition is in <URL> : ( d ) Commercial aircraft . A " commercial aircraft " is any aircraft transporting passengers and/or cargo for some payment or other consideration , including money or services rendered . [ ... ] ( h ) Private aircraft . A " private aircraft " is any aircraft engaged in a personal or business flight to or from the U.S. which is not : ( 1 ) Carrying passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes ; ( 2 ) Leaving the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in order to lade passengers and/or cargo in a foreign area for commercial purposes ; or ( 3 ) Returning to the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in ballast after leaving with passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes ;
TL ; DR The angle is about 1 degree . The best reference I can think of is the <URL> . This provides key dimensions for the A330 family . I looked at the dimensions for the forward and aft lower deck cargo doors . The document provides both the distance from the ground to the floor of the hold ( § 2-3-0 ) , and to the door center from the nose ( § 2-7-0 ) . With this information , an inverse tangent will give the angle of the deck between the doors . There are two factors that affect these numbers . First , the three models of aircraft have different measurements . The other factor is weight and balance of the aircraft , which affects how much the suspension on each gear is compressed . A heavier aircraft will sit lower to the ground , and the location of the center of gravity will affect how much weight is resting on each landing gear position . Calculating the angles gives the following angles . Note the larger angle on the shorter -200 , and the difference of about a degree between the values on the -200 and the freighter -200 F. Although 1 degree may not seem like much , note the difference of about 33 cm ( 13 in . ) height between the -200 and the -200 F at the forward cargo door . This is near the nose gear , which is the reason that modifications were necessary to fit the extra nose gear length in the gear bay . -300 176,000 kg , CG 26.8 % : 1.2 deg MRW , CG 15 % : 1.1 deg MRW , CG 36.5 % : 0.8 deg -200 119,000 kg , mid CG : 1.4 deg MRW , CG 21 % : 1.3 deg MRW , CG 37.5 % : 0.8 deg -200 F 115,000 kg , CG 20 % : 0.4 deg MRW , CG 20.6 % : 0.2 deg MRW , CG 37.4 % : 0 deg
Reversible is when there is a direct linkage from controls to control surfaces . For example the cable linkages in a light aircraft up to an MD-80 . Irreversible is when there is a hydraulic power control unit in the way , it can be mechanical or fly-by-wire . And such controls would sometimes need an artificial feel system to relay how much force is being applied . It is found in airplanes that can not be steered by just muscles . A good way to picture it , is what happens if you move an aileron by hand , would the yoke turn as a result or no . Superman might be needed for a 747 's rudder , but still , the rudder pedals wo n't budge . More information <URL> and <URL> . <URL> Source : <URL> Photo shows an unpowered rudder that was swung by the wind , in the cockpit the rudder pedals would show the neutral position , hence irreversible .
Do they generate the same navigation signal ? The DVOR reverses the useage of the two 30Hz signals . However , by also reversing the direction of it 's rotating variable signal it produces exactly the same result in the receiver . The receiver has no " knowledge " that it 's a DVOR as opposed to CVOR it 's receiving and operates as normal . Can they be used by the same receiver , or do VOR receivers need to be specially adapted to DVORs ? Affirm , same receiver . Is one more accurate than the other ? DVOR is more accurate , and more expensive . CVOR is required to be ± 4 ° , however DVOR is required to be ± 1 ° , per Convention on International Civil Aviation Annex 10 , Volume 1 . Is one more susceptible to interference than the other ? The DVOR is more practical in crowded areas or where there are tall buildings . However , it 's a big structure - around 100ft in diameter . Sources : <URL> p. 295 , <URL> , and <URL>
Feathering The collective pitch control , or collective lever , is normally located on the left side of the pilot 's seat with an adjustable friction control to prevent inadvertent movement . The collective changes the pitch angle of all the main rotor blades collectively ( i.e. , all at the same time ) and independent of their position . That 's what you referred to as feathering , notice it says " independent of their position " . It 's for collectively increasing or decreasing of the lift on all blades -- the engine will keep the RPM constant . Using the collective in level flight would cause a climb or descent , while with the helicopter pitched forward an increase in total lift would produce an acceleration together with a given amount of ascent . -- <URL> Flapping Flapping is position dependent as <URL> . Flapping is not pilot controlled . It 's to counter the <URL> .
<URL> In most planes , the Hobbs clock is started and stopped based on an oil pressure switch , so it starts when the engine starts , and stops when the engine is shut-down . While it 's running , it just ticks off a tenth of an hour every 6 minutes , based on " regular wall clock time " . So a tenth of idling on the ramp is the same as a tenth at cruise . <URL> The tach clock is n't really a clock at all , it does n't actually measure time , it really measures engine revolutions . But it 's calibrated such that a tenth of an hour of tach time is clicked off when the engine is at cruise RPM for 6 minutes . In other words , if the plane is at cruise RPM , the tach clock will be clicking off tenths of an hour at the same rate as the Hobbs clock , and the same as the watch on your wrist . But if the engine is idling at an RPM speed that 's half of what cruise RPM is , then the tach clock will be running at half the speed of the Hobbs clock . Relation So , for the tach clock , less " time " is clocked when the plane is idling on the ramp , or flying at low RPM . For short flights ( where ramp idling time is a significant percentage of total time ) , and flights where you 're doing a lot of pattern work ( and thus operating at low RPM ) , tach time will be significantly less than Hobbs time . Maintenance When an engine is replaced or overhauled , that engine is considered to be " zero time " . Whether they actually reset the tach gauge to 0 when the engine is overhauled , or if there 's a way to put a time on a brand new tach or Hobbs meter when the old one dies and is replaced , I dunno , but in general , I 'd assume that the aircraft 's engine and airframe log books are really the official recording of the progression of airframe/engine times , so I do n't know that it 's particularly important whether the tach is set to the engine 's time , or if it 's really just used as an incremental meter . AOPA has a nice ( and long ) <URL> about this .
Flaps are at the back of the wing , slats are at the front . Easy ! :) If you want it more technical : They both help to generate more lift . See these diagrams with angle of attack and lift coefficient : <URL> <URL> As the lift coefficient is inversely proportional to the minimum airspeed , a higher CL will allow a lower Vmin .
Any body moving in a fluid experiences pressure forces over its surface . The concepts of center of pressure , aerodynamics center and neutral point are useful in understanding the effects of these forces . Let 's take an airfoil moving in air with subsonic flow attached to the body . Center of Pressure The center of pressure is the point where the total sum of a pressure field acts on a body . In aerospace , this is the point on the airfoil ( or wing ) where the resultant vector ( of lift and drag ) acts . <URL> Source : avstop.com As the airfoil angle of attack changes , the pressure field changes . Due to this , the center of pressure changes with variation in the angle of attack . In the airplane 's normal range of flight attitudes , if the angle of attack is increased , the center of pressure moves forward ; and if decreased , it moves rearward . <URL> Source : www.flightlearnings.com As the center of gravity ( the point where the weight of the body acts ) is fixed , this movement of center of pressure affects the stability of the aircraft . Aerodynamic Center The resultant ( or the pressure forces ) also cause a moment on the airfoil . As the angle of attack increases , the pitching moment at a point ( for example , the center of gravity ) also changes . However , the pitching moment remains constant at a particular point , which is called the aerodynamic center . <URL> Source : www.theairlinepilots.com For symmetric airfoils in subsonic flight the aerodynamic center is located approximately 25 % of the chord from the leading edge of the airfoil . This point is described as the quarter-chord point . Thus the aerodynamic center does not change with variation in angle of attack . Due to this , the aerodynamic center , rather than the center of pressure is used in the analysis of longitudinal stability . Neutral Point Consider the whole aircraft . The lift of the wing acting through the center of pressure is in front of the center of gravity of the aircraft . This causes a destabilizing motion ( increase in lift to increase in angle of attack causes a nose up moment , further increasing angle of attack ) . This is counteracted by the moment produced by the lift of the horizontal stabilizer ( which is a small wing ) , acting behind the center of gravity . <URL> " <URL> " by User_A1 - SVG derivative of Public Domain work by G J Vigurs . Licensed under GFDL via <URL> . As the center of gravity is moved forward , the stability of the aircraft increases ( as the main wing lift arm is reduced ) and the aircraft is statically stable . <URL> Source : quest.arc.nasa.gov As the center of gravity is moved aft , the main wing lift moment arm increases and the aircraft stability decreases . The aircraft is said to be statically unstable . <URL> Source : quest.arc.nasa.gov As the aircraft is stable when center of gravity is in the nose and unstable when center of gravity is in the tail , there is a position in the middle where the aircraft is neither stable nor unstable i.e the stability is neutral . This point is called the neutral point . The neutral point is fixed for a particular aerodynamic configuration of the aircraft . <URL> Source : quest.arc.nasa.gov Thus , Center of pressure of an aircraft is the point where the Lift acts . Aerodynamic center is the point in the wing where the pitching moments are constant . Neutral point it the location of center of gravity where the aircraft is neutrally stable
A positioning flight is a flight for the sole purpose of positioning the aircraft to conduct another flight from another airport . This is often done when the aircraft finishes its day in one city , but is needed in a different city the following day because another plane has broken down . A positioning flight is technically a type of ferry flight , however the latter is a more broad term . Examples of ferry flights include delivery from the manufacturer , or flying to a different city for heavy maintenance . Both flights are generally conducted without fare-paying passengers on board , but sometimes extra airline staff are carried .
Yes there is a distinction , pitch , roll and heading are angles [ unit = radian ] and latitude , longitude and altitude are linear distances [ unit = meter ] . Together , these six parameters define the six Degrees of Freedom that define the momentary state of a rigid object with reference to the earth . All six are defined relative to earth axes . For the linear dimensions this is clear , we just need to define a suitable zero point . For the angles : Pitch is the nose up/down angle relative to the gravity field of the earth . Roll is the wingtip up/down angle relative to the gravity field of the earth . Heading is the angle relative to a suitable earth reference , usually magnetic north or geographical north . Conversion of aircraft axes into earth axes is a non-trivial matter and the cause of much confusion , for instance in questions comparing lift to weight : lift is always coupled to aircraft axes , weight to earth axes . The axes sets are defined as follows : Aircraft axes Origin : Centre of Gravity of aircraft X-axis : in the symmetry plane of the aircraft , + = forward to the aircraft nose Y-axis : in the span wise direction of the aircraft , + = to the right wingtip Z-axis : perpendicular to the XOY-plane , + = down into the floor . Earth axes Origin : Centre of Gravity at the start of the response X-axis : In the horizontal plane ( relative to gravity ) , + = pointing north . Y-axis : Perpendicular to XOZ-plane , + = pointing east . Z-axis : Pointing to the centre of the earth = + Edit Yes navigation lat/lon is given in [ degrees ] - the INS sensor ultimately converts displacement into proper navigational definitions of course . But for measuring 3-D aircraft inertial effects the SI system is used , and displacement is internally treated as a linear motion , units [ metres ] .
With many airplanes the longevity of the engine is a major factor in the price of the aircraft . Piston aircraft engines are generally good for 2000 hours of operation before they need to be overhauled , which is almost always painfully expensive . The more life left on the engine the higher the value of the airplane . SMOH and SFOH both have to do with the time since the engine was overhauled , both are in hours : SFOH = Since Factory Overhaul SMOH = Since Major Overhaul A factory overhaul means that the engine was sent back to the manufacturer for its overhaul , where a major overhaul could be done by anyone . In general factory overhauls are consistently good whereas non-factory overhauls vary more in quality . Factory overhauls are more expensive as a result . If you see an airplane that has 300 hours since overhaul then there 's plenty of life left , if you see one that has 1700 hours on the clock you know you are going to have to fork out a lot of cash much sooner , but you can get the airplane much cheaper . Another acronym you may see is SPOH , that is Since Prop Overhaul . Variable pitch propellers also have mandatory servicing requirements , and although less expensive it 's still not cheap , so a factor in the cost of the airplane .
The first turbofan , the <URL> , had just a bypass ratio of 0.25 . It was designed for installation into the wing root of airplanes like the <URL> bomber or the <URL> transport project , so RR strived to keep the diameter small . Of course , back then nobody distinguished low - and high-bypass engines . The <URL> , which powered most of the second generation of jet airliners ( Boeing 707 and DC-8 ) , had a bypass ratio of less than 1.5 . But when the new generation of engines ( <URL> , <URL> ) with bypass ratios of around 5 were developed for the first generation of wide body jets , marketing needed a term to make clear that this was a new generation of engines , and the high-bypass ratio engine category was born . Generally , the threshold is around 5 , but note that some CF-6 versions have bypass ratios as low as 4.24 and still fall into the high bypass ratio category . Therefore , <URL> sets the limit at a bypass ratio of 4 . There is no technical difference between a low - and a high-bypass engine , and the limit is arbitrary . The jump in bypass ratio from 1.5 to 5 brought significant improvements in specific fuel consumption and noise reduction , but part of the technical progress was also from better materials and aerodynamics , which allowed higher compression ratios and turbine entry temperatures . Now , almost 50 years later , we see the first engines with <URL> entering service . Designs are being readied with bypass ratios of 12 , so marketing will need a new word to describe those creations . With " ultra high bypass " already taken by the <URL> crowd , the search is on .
Published waypoints are waypoints that appear on the charts and in the published navigation databases used by GPS navigators or FMSes . They are referenced using the published identifier for the waypoint . Examples : TPA , ITAWT . Unpublished waypoints are waypoints created by the pilot . FMS allow for the creation/entry of a waypoint by the pilot . The waypoint is defined by one of the following : Latitude/Longitude Place/Bearing/Distance Place-Bearing/Place-Bearing The pilot-defined waypoint can then be added to the flight plan . Here 's a snip of how a waypoint is defined in an A320 : <URL> As to when you would use it , the short answer is when you need to or want to . A common example would be to deviate a short distance off an airway ( maybe 5 or 10 nm ) to avoid a temporary flight restriction . You would just want to avoid the restricted airspace and using a published waypoint or waypoints would take you farther off your route than necessary .
CAMO is the organisation and CAME is a " book " that need to write . This " book " contain procedure to explain how you will work ( how you communicate with aircraft customers , how you manage your docs , etc. . . ) .
the communication between the cockpit and the controllers is done by using Arinc protocols . And the data transmitted by probes to the controllers is done by CAN . That depends very much on the aircraft type . And when can we use each one of them ( Arinc and CAN ) When you design your own aircraft you get to choose . CAN stands for <URL> . CAN is a bus standard designed to allow microcontrollers and devices to communicate with each other in applications without a host computer . It has its origins in the automotive industry . ARINC stands for <URL> , Incorporated . ARINC is an organisation that amongst other activities produces technical standards for avionics and provides services to aircraft operators . Amongst the ARINC standards there are a number addressing data communications between avionics components . Most widely used is the <URL> standard which describes an avionics data bus . ARINC 429 allows a single transmitter to communicate data to up to 20 receivers over a single bus . Comparing CAN bus to ARINC 429 : Cable CAN : STP or UPT , possible to implement on fiberoptic cable ARINC 429 : STP Speed CAN : 1 Mbit/s ( high speed ) / 125 Kbit/s ( low speed ) ARINC 429 100Kbit/s ( high speed ) / 10-14 Kbit/s ( low speed ) Directionality CAN : bi-directional , connected units can send and receive on the same cable . ARINC 429 : uni-directional , a unit either transmits or receives from a cable . Number of units on a single bus CAN : unlimited , although in practice no more than about 32 units will be sharing a bus to avoid data collisions . ARINC 429 : one transmitter can serve at most 20 receiving units on a single cable . Since ARINC 429 has only a single transmitter , timely data arrival is guaranteed , while CAN has to incorporate transmission collision detection &amp; correction which incurs non deterministic time overhead . On the other hand , ARINC 429 only uses a parity bit for bit level error detection whilst CAN allows for various methods including CRC checks Some of this data is obtained from an article on CAN bus in <URL> . Newer ARINC busses like 629 or <URL> allow for higher speeds and bi-directional communication . These may eventually replace ARINC 429 ( but never underestimate how slow progress in aviation is )
As you measure temperature moving at high velocities , your outside thermometer will measure a higher temp than what is actually outside ( what a non-moving thermometer would get ) . That 's because as the air rams into your thermometer it gets a little bit compressed , and that makes it heat up a little bit . Amazingly , some smart people have even calculated how much that " ram rise " is , and you can actually compensate ( well , in theory ) from the indicated temperature to calculate what the actual outside air temp is : $ $ Ram ~ Rise = SAT \ times0 .2 \ times { M } ^ 2 $ $ Where $ SAT$ is Static Air Temperature in Kelvin , $ M$ is Mach number Problem is , not all instruments will compress that air in the same way , and not all of them will pick up this Ram Rise entirely . So they will publish a $ K$ , a ram-rise-coefficient ( also called recovery factor ) meaning how much of from the theoretical Ram Rise they actually pick up . ( OAT/SAT ) Static Air Temperature = noted as $ T_S $ , actual temperature of the air outside , the same your thermometer will pick up if you were not moving ( say , in a balloon ? ) ( RAT ) Ram Air Temperature = noted as $ T_M $ , actual measured temperature by your instrument . $ $ RAT = SAT + k \ times { Ram ~ Rise } $ $ ( TAT ) Total Air Temperature = noted as $ T_T $ , total temperature as measured by an instrument with $ K$ - coefficient of $ 1 $ . $ $ TAT = SAT+R am ~ Rise $ $
Aerobatic flight is " an intentional maneuver involving an abrupt change in an aircraft 's attitude , an abnormal attitude , or abnormal acceleration , not necessary for normal flight . " According to the <URL> , no person may operate an aircraft in aerobatic flight : Over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement ; Over an open air assembly of persons ; Within the lateral boundaries of the surface areas of Class B , Class C , Class D , or Class E airspace designated for an airport ; Within 4 nautical miles of the center line of any Federal airway ; Below an altitude of 1,500 feet above the surface ; or When flight visibility is less than 3 statute miles . Aerobatic flight is sometimes considered to be flight with more than 30 degrees pitch or more than 60 degrees bank . This is incorrect . It applies to wearing a parachute . ( FAR 91.307 ) A normal category aircraft is certified for the following " non-acrobatic " operation : Stalls , lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , in which the angle of bank is not more than 60 ° . A utility category aircraft is certified for spins ( if approved for plane ) , lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , or similar manoeuvres , in which the angle of bank is more than 60 degrees but not more than 90 degrees . An acrobatic category aircraft is required for other aerobatics .
In Europe , some airways are only available in certain flight level ranges , so a commercial airliner and a GA turbo-prop travelling from the same departure airport to the same destination airport could be travelling on different routes due to airway restrictions in place and the inability of one aircraft to climb to the same level as the other . Below the routing for PC12 operating IFR at FL150 and an A320 operating at FL250 . The above flightplan from EDDL to EDDM validates for FL240 , but anything above FL245 will not pass , it will error out with : To fly the same flight in higher levels , you would need another routing : This routing works fine for anything above FL245 , below it would again error out with :
Consider where the center of gravity is in relation to the main wheels . If you are in a tail dragger , you definitely would prefer to de-crab ( never heard that term before now ) before touching down . If you touched down while crabbed , you 'd have a moment created by the center of gravity around the main gear to ground loop the airplane . In a tricycle gear airplane , that same moment would work to straighten the airplane since the center of gravity is forward of the main gear . In a crosswind from the right , for example , when you apply left rudder to align the aircraft with the runway , the right wing will want to come up ( you just gave it a little extra speed ) , so you will want to use right aileron to at least counter that as you certainly do n't want the crosswind component to get ' under ' the wing . Both 747 operators I flew for recommended touching down in the crab . Personally I did n't like that and used a combination approach in a heavy crosswind , take out some of the crab but not all . Also , while they did caution against lowering the upwind wing , I always lowered the wing a little . I once figured out how much the wing would have to be lowered before ground contact , and it was quite substantial , more than I would ever think of using . Also , as I remember , It would not be the wingtip or an outboard engine pod that would make first contact , but rather the outboard corner of the outboard wing flap when set to flaps 30 . Finally , when your touch down speed is 140 knots , for example , you 'll have to crab much less for a given crosswind component than if your touchdown speed is 70 knots . Cosine or tangent of the angle , I forget which .
The term is not " approved " , it is the complete phrase . This is the standard FAA term for what was previously called either or , and means " separation in accordance with the applicable minima in [ <URL> ] " . The separation minima are further defined in the JO 7110 family of FAA Air Traffic Control orders , which you can find linked from the page above .
end question
start question
Are airliner flight plans/routes preset ?
Airlines have an own department that is solely responsible for their flights and flight plans : Dispatch . Since single airways can have different availability or just direction for different days or even times of the day , there will be a preset pool of routes for recurring flights , which can then be adapted for anything out of the ordinary , like NOTAMS , weather forecasts , operational requirements like airspace closure , etc. . . The flight plan is usually submitted by the dispatchers and not the aircrew .
According to the tooltips on the Lockheed Martin site , the flight rules are : MVFR - Military VFR ; restricted to military flights MIFR - Military IFR ; restricted to military flights YFR - Initially operated under IFR , followed by one or more changes of flight rules ZFR - Initially operated under VFR , followed by one or more changes of flight rules There 's very little information on MVFR and MIFR flight plans that I could find , but the FAA 's FSS procedures do include <URL> that are required when receiving a military flight plan ( section 6-4-7 ) . YFR and ZFR are ICAO rules ; the FAA calls combined VFR/IFR flight plans composite flight plans ( see <URL> in the AIM ) and on a US domestic composite flight plan both VFR and IFR should be checked . Interestingly , the Lockheed Martin site does n't allow that .
There is less gravitational force , but by how much ? An insignificant amount . The gravitational force of attraction between two objects is given by , $ \ displaystyle F _ { \ mathrm g } = \ frac { G m _ { 1 } m _ { 2 } } { R ^ 2 } $ , where , $ G$ is the graviational constant , $ R$ is the distance between the object 's centers , and $ m _ { 1 } $ and $ m _ { 2 } $ are the masses of the objects . Instead of finding the variation in force between the aircraft and earth , it would be be better to find the variation in the acceleration due to gravity , $ g $ ( as $ F _ { \ mathrm g } = m _ { \ mathrm a } g $ , with $ m _ { \ mathrm a } $ being the mass of the airliner ) We have , on earth 's surface , $ \ displaystyle g = \ frac { G m _ { \ mathrm e } } { R _ { \ mathrm e } ^ 2 } $ where , $ m _ { \ mathrm e } $ is the mass of the earth , and $ R _ { \ mathrm e } $ is the radius of the earth . For the aircraft at an altitude $ h $ above the surface of the earth , this becomes , $ \ displaystyle g _ { h } = \ frac { G m _ { \ mathrm e } } { \ left ( R _ { \ mathrm e } + h \ right ) ^ 2 } $ Taking ratio , we get , $ \ displaystyle \ frac { g _ { h } } { g } = \ left ( 1 + \ frac { h } { R _ { e } } \ right ) ^ { -2 } $ Plugging in numbers , we get , for an airliner cruising at 12 km , $ g _ { h } = 9.773 \ \ mathrm { m \ s ^ { -2 } } $ , or about 0.37 % less compared to the sea level value . This is quite small and would not be noticable to all but the sensitive instruments .
Short answer Determination of mass and balance ( or weight and balance ) is a critical task for the crew , an error in this operation may have tragic consequences . Weighing passengers and carry-on items is mandatory per regulation . Either standard predetermined weights , or actual weights can be used in this operation . Airlines usually use predetermined tables . Tables values take into account different types of travel ( e.g. regular and charter ) . While the weight must be checked , the center of gravity location is of equal importance . The distribution of the passengers in the aircraft is also taken into consideration . Aircraft are not weighed prior to each flight , but the basic empty weight must be known and checked periodically per regulation . Aircraft are weighed simply using scales under the carriages :-) ( <URL> ) The other method is to use jacks . See further below for an image . So this was the short answer . To understand why and how to balance the aircraft , there are quite a lot elements to introduce . For those interested , just continue ! Weight ... The different elements composing the takeoff weight : <URL> All of these elements must be determined prior to taxi and takeoff . The mass of these elements are necessary to check that the different maximum weights are not exceeded . However there is another aspect of the masses which needs to be secured : Where are the masses located ? Taking KeithS ' example , if there are many heavy people grouped in the forward section , we may have a problem at <URL> , even if the <URL> is not exceeded . ... and balance . Location of the center of gravity vs. the MAC The masses must be distributed so that the center of gravity of the aircraft is located within limits determined relatively to the aerodynamic chord , and the center of lift . This is required to ensure the stability and the maneuverability , to minimize the efforts on the horizontal and vertical stabilizers and to increase the maximum lift and reduce the drag . On airliners , the center of lift must be located between the CG and the center of lift of the horizontal stabilizer , so that the latter pushes downward to balance the weight . On airliners the width of the wing is greatest where it meets the fuselage at the wing root and progressively decreases toward the tip . As a consequence , the chord also changes along the span of the wing . The average length of the chord is known as the mean aerodynamic chord ( <URL> ) . The MAC is a portion of the wing , delimited by LeMAC ( leading , 0 % ) and TeMAC ( trailing , 100 % ) . The CG must be located in the MAC . In large aircraft , center of gravity limitations and the actual center of gravity are often expressed in terms of % MAC ( on the roll axis , similar limits exist on the two other axis ) . ( image and text around : <URL> ) In general , in large transport aircraft , the most forward CG is located as forward as 5 % MAC , while the most aft location as aft as 40 % MAC . The average CG limits in large transport aircraft are between 20 and 30 % MAC . As commented by Calchas , using wrong weights for the passengers ( adults instead of children ) may move the CG to a wrong location , not balanced by the trim , and create strong difficulties during the takeoff and the initial climb . PAX weight applicable procedures For an airliner , the PAX portion is relatively small compared to the total mass , so the passengers mass is usually estimated based on standard passenger mass tables and the number of PAX per cabin section . Each airline may provide its own standard mass tables , but standard tables are proposed with the applicable regulation : <URL> or EU-OPS1 for Europe ( section <URL> ) . Values valid in 2008 : ( <URL> ) Those tables have been establish using airlines data obtained by surveys . They are updated from time to time . In case the operator wants to establish their own equivalent tables , <URL> provides a detailed operating mode to sample passengers and weigh them . For the EU , a new survey was conducted by the European Aviation Safety Agency in 2009 and a proposal for table updates issued : <URL> At this point you may want to download the documentation I 'm mostly using for this post : <URL> . We are at page 54 . Special cases There are cases where it is obvious the actual mass and balance will be erroneous if the standard tables are used ( this is especially true for a small cabin ) . In these cases the operator must improve the evaluation by actual weighing of either all or a sample of passengers and their baggage . The procedure already mentioned for establishing standard tables is used ( <URL> ) . Putting all elements together All masses , arms ( distance to the reference center ) and <URL> are finally reported on the aircraft manifest to calculate the correction that must be used for the takeoff ( trim amount ) . Basic empty weight determination The aircraft is not weighed for each takeoff , still it has been weighed to determine its basic empty weight and its center of gravit
Almost all Russian ( Soviet ) aircrafts were tested in the Zhukovsky Airfield ( Ramenskoye Airport ) near Moscow . The Comac is building a Flight Test center at Dongying , Shandong province near the Dongying Shengli Airport . The flight test of aircrafts are expected to be carried out from here . As Peter noted , Antonov test their aircrafts at Kiev Airport , including An 225 , the largest aircraft in world .
Because the pitch of the <URL> is not related to the pitch of the seats . The windows placement have to cut through as few frames as possible . You can see it in the following picture , noting that frames are " highlighted " by the vertical riveting Image <URL> It is even more evident in the picture contained in <URL> on UX.SE : Because the aircraft is designed once , but " decorated " by several airlines in several different manners . For example , an A320 or a B757 will have the windows always in the same locations , but depending on the airline that is using it , it will most probably have the seats in slightly different locations .
Essentially this has been explained to me as " you 're a trip hazard . " ' Additionally , inferences that if power/lights go off , you 'll be stepped on and trip people , particularly people in your row ( do n't know how this applies so much if you 're a couple/by yourself ) , and in the way in the necessity of evacuation , or in the case of a flight attendant needing to rush to the window to look out . How they 'd do that with your legs in front of you in a seated position , I do n't know . I do know it 's not allowed on QANTAS ( and Jetstar ) , Emirates , American , Virgin Blue , or North West ( now defunct ) . In my experience it 's pretty common to hear the captain or stewardess announce or tell a passenger if you 're on an overnight or long flight . ADD : Just got off a QANTAS flight , this is more of less what they said . The flight attendants need to be able to rush to a window or an overhead locker/passenger in a window seat in an emergency situation , so bags cluttering floors , people sleeping on floors is n't ok . Also mentioned was the danger to passenger in case of turbulance , etc , the comparison with sleeping on the back seat floor of a car in motion was mentioned vis a vis unexpected swerving or breaking .
Essentially they plan on some fraction of the fleet undergoing some sort of maintenance check at any one time , so they build their flying schedule around the remaining fraction . And then there is some amount of flex due to things needing unscheduled maintenance or coming out of maintenance early . What makes the task easier is the fact that maintenance needs can be forecast fairly far in advance , and so the schedules can be built around a knowledge of how many aircraft are likely to be available . As an illustration ( not necessarily representative of any particular airline 's actual numbers ) , let 's say you have a fleet of 200 aircraft , and you know that on average each aircraft will be down for two 2-week heavy maintenance checks each year . That works out to essentially one month out of 12 , each aircraft is down , or a little under 10 % of the time . Add in a little time for shorter maintenance visits ( but still longer than an overnight ) , plus an allowance for the fact that some aircraft just need unscheduled work , and the maintenance planners may end up telling you to plan on 175 aircraft available each day . So that 's what you build your schedule around . Now let 's say that one aircraft takes a birdstrike &amp; an engine needs to be changed . That is now a hole in the schedule . It can be covered by cancelling a flight ( undesirable , but always an option ) . If an aircraft is finished with maintenance ahead of schedule ( say it was scheduled down all day for some work , but the work is actually done by noon ) , that aircraft may be able to be put into service . Perhaps it 's possible to delay some sort of minor maintenance a day ( not a heavy check , but something quicker ) and essentially create one aircraft-day of capacity , and push the check off to a weekend day when the schedule uses fewer aircraft . Or maybe the schedule was built with one or two aircraft available as spares that day . Depending on a variety of factors , spares may or may not be available , or even deliberately built into the schedule at all . Having an A-380 sitting around unused all day is an EXPENSIVE insurance policy against something unforeseen happening , but cancelling a flight on something that big is an expensive event when it happens ! If you operate all out of one giant hub and you know that your fleet of 500 aircraft ( flying 450 lines every day ) is likely to have 2-4 aircraft every day go to the hanger for unexpected maintenance , it 's probably a good financial decision to allocate two or three of those lines as dedicated spares . If your aircraft operate a point-to-point schedule , it 's harder ( or unfeasible ) to keep a spare aircraft at every airport you serve , " just in case " something happens to break there . There are complicated decisions that airlines will continuously evaluate to find what balance works best for their particular operation . In some cases , it may be possible to substitute an aircraft from a different fleet for a broken jet ... an MD80 goes to the hanger , and a 737 with a reserve crew flies the rest of the day that the MD80 would have flown . Or maybe a 757 broke , and the decision is to use the 737 to cover the flight , and re-accommodate the extra passengers that the 757 could hold that the 737 now ca n't . That 's a tactical decision that the airline 's operations center will make , considering the availability of both aircraft and crews , as well as the passenger loads . ( They also may pull a " healthy " 757 off of its less full schedule to fly in place of the broke 757 , use a 737 that was n't going to be very full to cover that 757 's route , put an RJ on the 737 's route that day , and cancel the RJ 's flights " due to maintenance . " And if that inconveniences 4 flights of 40-50 people who mostly just get delayed a few hours , that 's probably a better plan than stranding two flights of 200 people who 'd otherwise have no way to get where they 're going until tomorrow or later . )
Generally , sweep makes the wing less efficient in creating lift and complicates structural design . Therefore , aircraft designers try to use as little sweep as they can get away with . However , <URL> onset of <URL> and allows jet aircraft to improve their maximum transport performance ( the product of speed and payload ) . <URL> both help to fly faster , but backward sweep is preferred because it makes stalling less dangerous , improves <URL> and allows to make the wing lighter . The shortest take-off distance will be achieved with zero sweep - if it were not for the need to limit compressibility effects , sweep would only be used in tailless aircraft . The main factor for choosing wing sweep is the desired <URL> , and Mach 0.85 has become the de-facto standard . Other factors are : Relative wing thickness : A thicker wing needs more sweep , because thickness adds its own compressibility effects . Maximum local Mach number of the airfoil where recompression is shock-free : So-called <URL> help to reduce sweep , and older designs ( before the A310 ) had generally more sweep because their critical Mach number would had been lower at equal sweep . Regulations have nothing to do with it , only engineering determines the sweep angle . Since the design cruise Mach number is <URL> at Mach 0.85 for long-range airliners , the sweep angle of different aircraft is very similar . Regional jets normally fly a little slower to improve fuel efficiency , and their sweep angle is less than that of their big , long-range cousins .
A meteorite could hit an airplane , sure . There 's no known cases of it happening because meteorites which survive atmospheric entry are very rare , and airplanes are pretty small so the likelihood of it happening is extremely low .
Airlines have an own department that is solely responsible for their flights and flight plans : Dispatch . Since single airways can have different availability or just direction for different days or even times of the day , there will be a preset pool of routes for recurring flights , which can then be adapted for anything out of the ordinary , like NOTAMS , weather forecasts , operational requirements like airspace closure , etc. . . The flight plan is usually submitted by the dispatchers and not the aircrew .
According to the <URL> , the main reason is search and rescue : b . It is strongly recommended that a flight plan ( for a VFR flight ) be filed with an FAA FSS . This will ensure that you receive VFR Search and Rescue Protection . So the question becomes , does search and rescue have value in populated areas ? I would say that - excluding large cities - populated areas are actually not very densely populated at all ( relatively speaking ) , and there is a very good chance that no one will see your aircraft come down or even react if they do . You might be flying at night , or no one may be looking in the right direction , or they may assume you 're landing at a private strip or doing cropdusting or whatever . And even when an aircraft is known to be down in a specific area , it 's often very hard to find it - especially if you land in trees - so anything you can do to narrow down the search area is important . An AOPA safety video ( I forget which one ) mentioned an incident where a helicopter went down less than a mile from a runway threshold at a class B airport and it still took 24 hours to locate it ( the details may be different , but you get the idea ) .
TL ; DR You 're confusing concepts , planes come in high/low capacity and range , routes come in high/low demand and long/short haul distances . A high capacity long range aircraft can operate very profitably on a short haul , high demand route ... a full 747 would actually be more profitable on a 1000km route than a full 737 , because although the 747 uses more fuel , it also carries a lot more passengers . You 're assuming that putting a big plane on a short route wastes money . Airlines do n't work in miles per gallon like you or I do with their car ... they work on income/expense . I could fly 747s on 100 mile hops all day , but if they 're full of 400 + passengers each paying more than 0.25 % of the running costs of that flight , I 'll still make money . If they could have used a smaller aircraft , it might waste a little money carrying the extra weight , but you seem to be over-simplifying things I 'm guessing this question is actually more along the lines of " How often do airliners run an aircraft that is n't completely full , and how much of that time could they have actually run a smaller aircraft ? " To which the answer is " Usually , and not very often " The economics are about running the whole system as a profit . If I have enough flights in summer that fill the aircraft , then over 12 months that bigger aircraft ( highly profitable all summer , breaking even all winter ) may make all money than a smaller aircraft making a small profit all winter , and a small profit all summer , but not being big enough in summer to take the entire potential demand . Essentially , though , airlines are in the business of getting the " best fit " for their fleet . They are n't trying to get a plane in every size to have the perfect profit ratio for each flight , they are trying to get a suitable plane on each flight . This involves moving planes around as routes change etc. . In an ideal world you 'd run each plane exactly full of every passenger who wanted to fly on that route . In reality , we probably want a plane which is just slightly bigger than that , to cope with the small amounts of extra demand Again you 're seeing " Long haul " and " Short haul " aircraft as different concepts . They are n't . There are only high/low capacity aircraft and high/low capacity routes . Long haul routes tend to have less frequent service with larger , higher capacity aircraft ( if you 're travelling for 18 hours , you do n't need a service with departures every 3 hours ) . They also tend to involve people travelling from " The UK " to " Australia " for example , so one big plane can cover all of that , and split to smaller aircraft to disperse them Short haul routes tend to have more regular service and smaller demand levels , partially because people are less likely to want to depart at the same time every day , and partially because they can be more fine grained - you can go from an area of one country to an area of another . What you seem to miss is that these things are not mutually exclusive ... with enough demand , larger aircraft can run short haul routes very profitably . The fact a 747 is usually profitable on long haul flights , and the fact the demand on short haul routes do not usually have enough demand for such a large aircraft , do n't mean that one could never be profitable if enough people wanted to fly on it . There are airlines using 777s for example for fairly short haul journeys , very profitably , all over the world .
Some years ago there were a couple of flight schools on Malta , I 'm not sure if they are still operating , DuckDuckGo could probably tell you The most common way of getting a JAR ( pre-EASA ) PPL ( for UK trainees ) outside the UK used to be to go to a JAR accredited school in the USA . Florida was very popular . I expect there are schools in the US that are allowed to train to the EASA syllabus these days . I think you need to travel on a training visa to do this and I 'm not sure what is involved in getting one I think I 'm right in saying your flight test can be taken by an EASA examiner anywhere , no need to come home to do it ( and anyway you 'd want to do it over familiar territory ) A big warning to anyone learning to fly is not to pay upfront . Pay lesson by lesson . Flying schools can go bust very quickly , many students have lost a lot of money this way Personally , I would be wary of training outside the UK , the weather conditions and procedures will be very different from what you are used to , and a low-hours pilot could easily get caught out . Marginal conditions can go bad on you very quickly . If you do do this , try to get some supplementary lessons in poorish weather and get some time fly through UK CAS to get used to ATC procedures
There were a lot of other mitigating factors in the Colgan Air 3407 crash . Was that one recoverable ? It depends . It never should have got to the point of a stall in the first place . It was more preventable than recoverable . But in answer to your question , again , it depends . Every aircraft in the air can stall and be recovered , if responded to properly . But the plane may very well bend and break if the stall develops too far . Then it may not be recoverable . And most large airliners ( or aircraft bigger than a few thousand pounds with multiple engines ) are n't designed for the stresses of spins , so they never teach to a full stall . In those types of aircraft a full stall is much more dangerous , and they can be much more difficult to recover from , especially if you break something . Besides , in aircraft like that , you should receive plenty of direct warning long before you reach the point of a stall . When I was teaching , stalls and spins were one of my favorite subjects for early pilots . Especially in light trainers like the Cessna 150/152s . Those aircraft were always incredibly good at stalls/spins and incredibly forgiving . You can put a Cessna into a hands-off full stall if you trim it right , and it will stop rotating in a spin if you simply let go of it ( and have enough altitude ) . I always taught my students spin recovery from a full spin , even at the Private Pilot level . And usually shortly after teaching them full stalls . I would stall it , make it rotate at least 3 or 4 times , and have them recover the spin . Then have them do it themselves . I never had to worry about my students not knowing how to recover from an unintentional stall/spin . By the time my students were learning to fly multis , I was teaching them more stall recognition and avoidance than recovery . Recovery is essentially the same in all aircraft . You just have to be sure to not reach that point . There 's only one thing you really need with any aircraft in a stall/spin , and that 's altitude . Unfortunately , takeoffs and landings are the most likely places for you to get behind the aircraft and let it unintentionally stall/spin . That 's why you learn how to recognize them very early in your pilot training . You ca n't spin without a stall first , and just about any airplane will give you fair warning before you stall it . The trick is recognizing the situation before it becomes serious .
The requirements are in <URL> , Chief instructor qualifications . They 're too long to quote here in full and the exact requirements depend on the type of instruction , but in summary : Hold a commercial or ATP certificate Hold a CFI certificate Pass knowledge and proficiency tests Meet minimum flight time requirements ( depending on the type of instruction , e.g. 1000 hrs PIC time is required for private pilot instruction ) Meet minimum flight training time requirements For training pilots for an instrument rating , the chief instructor also needs an instrument rating , instrument flight time and instrument training experience .
I reread your question several times , and will attempt to answer . Hopefully I understand you correctly . First , for largest speed to smallest , I would order descent > cruise > climb . The way to think of it is that during a climb , you are building potential energy ( altitude ) . When that energy plateaus at your cruise altitude , you stop investing in potential energy , and maximize your kinetic energy ( cruise speed ) . During descent , there is energy to bleed , because you are lowering your potential energy ( altitude ) and converting it to kinetic energy ( descent speed ) . The gross assumption is that your UAV power setting remains about the same during all three phases of flight . In this example , the lift is greatest during the climb , when you are investing in potential energy , and not using as much kinetic energy . The descent would have the lowest lift , because you are willing to trade potential energy for kinetic energy , and the altitude decreases and the speed increases . Forget my original comment , I do n't think I understood your question at that time .
Tower enroute control is similar to the preferred route in that both are designed to improve the system effeciency . FAA defines the Tower En Route Control ( TEC ) ( in AIM section 4-1-19 ) as : TEC is an ATC program to provide a service to aircraft proceeding to and from metropolitan areas . It links designated Approach Control Areas by a network of identified routes made up of the existing airway structure of the National Airspace System . Preferred routes , on the other hand ( from <URL> ) are defined as : Preferred IFR routes are established between busier airports to increase system efficiency and capacity . They normally extend through one or more ARTCC areas and are designed to achieve balanced traffic flows among high density terminals . This outlines one of the major differences between the two : in TEC route , you never ' talk ' to the ARTCC . As <URL> : TEC flights are intended to be relatively short -- generally two hours or less , and are conducted below 10,000 feet . Throughout the route , communications are managed through tower controllers , and departure and approach controllers at a TRACON facility . You will never talk to ARTCC . Another important thing is that the TEC is essentially equivalent of getting a pop-up IFR clearance , <URL> ( from AIM section 4-1-19 ) : There are no unique requirements upon pilots to use the TEC program . Normal flight plan filing procedures will ensure proper flight plan processing . Pilots should include the acronym " TEC " in the remarks section of the flight plan when requesting tower en route control . The TEC is established only in areas with Radar coverage . US DoT <URL> specifically notes : TEC should be established/expanded only within areas of radar coverage . In areas without radar coverage ... an equivalent level of safety is maintained , TEC may be established and/or expanded . TECs basically are published preferred IFR routes that are entirely in TRACON airspace . As a result , most of the TECs are in the northeast and the west coast ( which can be found <URL> ) , where the airspaces are close enough that one can fly with Radar coverage the whole way .
Refueling an airliner with APU running is a perfectly normal procedure and it is done daily all around the world . The APU is located at the tail cone partially to reduce the risk of fire spreading to the fuel tanks , which are normally in the wings and center fuselage . Some operators and authorities ( not all ) restrict starting and/or stopping the APU while fueling .
A quick look at the <URL> makes it sound like , in the USA , they can enter any sort of airspace provided they can do it safely . So , theoretically , they could file a flight plan or at least alert local ATC to their activities . All of that being said , having been involved in hot air balloon operations before , I think it would not be terribly feasible . Firstly , flying a hot air balloon outside of Visual Flight Rule conditions ( being able to see several miles ) would be extremely dangerous , so you would n't need to file a flight plan for that . Secondly , you generally only want to fly a hot air balloon in very sparsely populated areas ( Class G airspace ) , and while you could have a flight plan there really is n't a need . A more congested area ( Class B or Class A ) would be extremely dangerous to navigate in a hot air balloon . It 's pretty hard to get out of the way , since controlling where you are going is ... iffy sometimes . So , in summary , yes it could be done , but in the vast majority of cases there 's little need to do it . Other than to just alert local ATC that you will be in the area .
end question
start question
What should I expect during a first class medical examination ?
You can see the requirements for all FAA medicals in <URL> . Specifically , S <URL> deals with second class medicals and <URL> deals with first class medicals . The only difference my cursory read of these regulations revealed is : x. 111 - Cardiovascular . A first class medical requires EKG after your 35th birthday and every year after age 40 . This leads me to believe any real differences are likely in the ME 's guidelines for issuing the medical , and I am not familiar with those . The only other differences relate to duration and requirement for the exercise of privileges . On your second question , if you apply for a first class medical and for some reason could not qualify for one , you will be denied or deferred even if you could hold a lower class medical ( this is also true of a second class application ) . The only possibilities at the end of a medical exam are walking out with a medical of the class you applied for or walking out without a medical . There is no fallthrough to a lower class . If you have an issue that you believe would inhibit your ability to get a first class medical , an avenue to explore this is through <URL> where you can talk with a doctor and get advice on your ability to pass a medical and support in handling a deferred medical application .
The <URL> : 3-2-5 . Class D Airspace 4 . Departures from : ( a ) A primary or satellite airport with an operating control tower . Two‐way radio communications must be established and maintained with the control tower , and thereafter as instructed by ATC while operating in the Class D airspace . [ emphasis mine ] While operating in Class D airspace , you must maintain two-way radio contact with the tower -- monitor the frequency and be prepared to respond . You may leave the frequency once you are either clear of the airspace , or receive instructions to that end from ATC ( " N1234 , frequency change approved " ) . Whether or not controllers are bothered by you letting them know that you 've left , I ca n't say , but it would probably qualify as frequency congestion . If they want to get in touch with you , they 'll try ( " N1234 , are you still with me ? " ) , but once you 're outside the Class D airspace they 're generally only providing advisory information .
At least I got my own license ( Czech Republic CAA ) , and I have " English VFR only " in my " Radiotelephone privileges " section . It is not English proficiency mark ( just because I have " ICAO English level 4 valid till ... " in " Remarks " section ) . As I understand , some countries still require separate RT license , but my question was about privileges stated in PPL .
I 'm assuming you 're more interested in the base-or-downwind question rather than the where-is-the-2-mile-base question . Theoretically you 're supposed to fly the published procedure unless told otherwise . In this case the procedure would probably be a standard traffic pattern . Being told to ' report ' means only that , you should report it when you 're there . This is not to be confused with the ( in my experience ) more common instruction " Enter and report a 2 mile base for runway 16 " , in which case you head for the base and not the downwind , and you report it when you get there . To argue ad absurdum , the clearance " Cleared touch and go , after the touch and go , make left traffic , report mid-field downwind " does n't mean you should head straight for the downwind . As always , when in doubt , ask .
My flying school as recommended the <URL> as the introductory text . It covers basic aviation plus Australian ( CASA ) regulations .
I go through the SAFETY checklist with all my passengers . <URL> Seat Belts - This is where they are and how to use them . Air Vents - Here are the air vents and how to use them Fire - In case of a fire here is the location of the fire extinguisher and this is how you use it . PASS method . Exits , Emergencies and Equipment - Here are the exits on the airplane and here is how to open the door . Know that you are in good hands and that I have been well trained to land safely under most situations . If for some reason an emergency occurs in flight follow my directions . If we need to land off the airport , I will ask you to pop open the door just before landing to ensure we can exit the airplane safely . Here is any safety equipment that you may want to use on this flight . i.e. supplemental oxygen . Traffic and talking - Please point out an traffic that you see and I will do the same . Please no talking while I am on the radio . Once we start taxiing to the runway please remain quiet til we are far enough away from the airport . I will let you know when it is safe to talk again . When we come in to land , I will ask that you remain quiet , unless an emergency situation occurs , till after the landing is complete and we are taxiing back to parking . Your questions - Do you have any questions ? Alright , lets go have some fun ! <URL>
If possible , you should do whatever the operating handbook for your aircraft says but do n't hesitate to do something different if you think it 's necessary ( more on that below ) . I checked a couple of POHs that I have to hand and they do n't mention the doors specifically , but there is a slight difference in what they say about cabin ventilation . The C172S checklist emphasizes avoiding drafts , including shutting air vents and ventilating only after fighting the fire : ELECTRICAL FIRE IN FLIGHT Master Switch -- OFF . Vents , Cabin Air , Heat -- CLOSED . Fire Extinguisher -- ACTIVATE . Avionics Master Switch -- OFF . All Other Switches ( except ignition switch ) -- OFF . WARNING AFTER DISCHARGING FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND ASCERTAINING THAT FIRE HAS BEEN EXTINGUISHED , VENTILATE THE CABIN . Vents/Cabin Air/Heat -- OPEN when it is ascertained that fire is completely extinguished . [ ... ] The PA28 checklist on the other hand says that the vents should be open : FIRE IN FLIGHT Electrical fire ( smoke in cabin ) : Master switch ... OFF Vents ... open Cabin heat ... OFF Land as soon as practicable But practically speaking , fire in the cabin is a really extreme situation and it 's hard to say that you should always follow the checklist ( if you even physically can ) . For example , if the cabin fills with smoke and you ca n't see anything at all you might have to try to clear the smoke somehow just to keep control of the aircraft , even at the risk of feeding the fire . The Piper POH acknowledges that the pilot is the best person to decide what to do : The procedure given is general and pilot judgement should be the determining factor for action in such an emergency For a real-life account of a cabin fire in a C172RG , see <URL> . They had to open the door to be able to see and land , which reinforces the point about doing whatever you have to do in an extreme scenario .
In the United States , except for that time which is used for certification or currency , the FAA permits you to log your time however you like , or even not log it at all . That means that you can do pretty much whatever you feel like . That said , here are my personal recommendations in order of how much I support them : Get a <URL> . Log everything in it . Get a <URL> with plenty of space for various categories and classes of aircraft . Copy all of your records from your old logbooks into it . Archive your old logbooks in a safe location . Use your new logbook for everything from here on . Get a professional pilot logbook with plenty of space for various categories and classes of aircraft . Do n't copy all the records from your old logbooks into it , just carry forward the totals . Archive your old logbooks in a safe location . Use your new logbook for everything from here on . Get one logbook for each category/class of aircraft you intend to fly . Log your time in whichever logbook is appropriate . Remember which logbook is which . Keep them all easily accessible rather than storing them in a safe location . Worry about whether you lost one . Have a complicated system of adding up your totals from various logbooks . Make it difficult to look up flights chronologically . Feel sad .
Would a plane in 135 ° roll be using stick-forward to retain altitude ? And thus bank in the direction the wheels are pointing ? Yes and yes . Let 's say you 're flying North . You roll inverted , then lift your left wing 45 degrees above the horizon ( this is the wing that pointing East , now that you 're upside down ) . You 'll experience the usual G forces pushing into your head ( it hurts ) , and the plane will start turning to the West . I once saw a great diagram that explained which controls do what when inverted - it showed the outline of the plane with one cartoon pilot sitting in the normal position , and another " phantom " pilot sitting in the same seat with feet on the rudder pedals , holding an extension of the stick , but with his head pointed the opposite direction - head towards wheels instead of away from wheels . When the plane 's inverted , the " phantom pilot " is upright , and all the controls would behave normally from his point of view .
You should wash your aircraft in accordance with the manufacturer 's instructions . We could all offer opinions and product recommendations in response to this question . However , the best answer is : in accordance with the manufacturer 's instructions . Since you ask the question generically , without any information on what aircraft you might have , I will answer generically . Your manufacturer 's instructions can generally be found in at least two places : the owner 's manual/AFM and the maintenance manual . For example , in the owners manual for a 1975 Cessna 172M , you will find Section V : Care of The Airplane containing instructions on how to wash painted surfaces , bare aluminum surfaces , interior surfaces , and the windscreen and windows . The maintenance manual for the same aircraft contains nearly -- if not exactly -- identical information in chapter 2 . Now , for that aircraft and others , Cessna recommends use of mild detergent in certain applications ; you might not find that overly helpful in choosing what to use . Based on my research and experience , and time honored practice that I 've observed , Dawn dish soap is widely used for cleaning painted Cessna aircraft with no apparent long term harmful effects . The airframe that I fly for work has tens of thousands of hours on it , and while I can not vouch for how often it was washed in the past , I try to wash parts of it a few times a week . There is no apparent washing damage to the paint . I will also highlight Cessna 's instruction to use Stoddard solvent on areas of stubborn oil or grease ; this can be especially helpful in cleaning the belly with it 's typical collection of oil and dirt . My practice is typically to wipe down the belly with solvent first , and then follow with a water and detergent wash . If the manufacturer 's instructions are not clear , or are otherwise insufficient to answer your question regarding your specific aircraft , I would recommend asking your maintenance professional . He or she should have both the knowledge and experience to steer you in the right direction . For more insight into the world of aircraft cleaning , and especially for the specific product recommendations you want , you might take a look at this AvWeb article by Kim Santerre : <URL> .
The " sterile cockpit rule " is an informal name for <URL> and <URL> . It says that no non-essential duties may be done during a critical phase of flight which is defined as " all ground operations involving taxi , takeoff and landing , and all other flight operations conducted below 10,000 feet , except cruise flight " . In your example , once they level off at cruise , even if it is below 10,000 feet , it no longer applies . While this does n't apply to Part 91 operations like you describe , it is a very good idea to follow the rule anyway to prevent distractions and increase the level of safety . As far as the GPS , I would recommend fiddling with it on the ground before you takeoff and be familiar with its operation before you need to use it . Being heads down for an extended period of time is never a good idea ( unless you have a safety pilot along to keep an eye on things and look for traffic ) ! The full text of the regulation is : § 121.542 Flight crewmember duties . ( a ) No certificate holder shall require , nor may any flight crewmember perform , any duties during a critical phase of flight except those duties required for the safe operation of the aircraft . Duties such as company required calls made for such nonsafety related purposes as ordering galley supplies and confirming passenger connections , announcements made to passengers promoting the air carrier or pointing out sights of interest , and filling out company payroll and related records are not required for the safe operation of the aircraft . ( b ) No flight crewmember may engage in , nor may any pilot in command permit , any activity during a critical phase of flight which could distract any flight crewmember from the performance of his or her duties or which could interfere in any way with the proper conduct of those duties . Activities such as eating meals , engaging in nonessential conversations within the cockpit and nonessential communications between the cabin and cockpit crews , and reading publications not related to the proper conduct of the flight are not required for the safe operation of the aircraft . ( c ) For the purposes of this section , critical phases of flight includes all ground operations involving taxi , takeoff and landing , and all other flight operations conducted below 10,000 feet , except cruise flight . Note : Taxi is defined as " movement of an airplane under its own power on the surface of an airport . " NASA has a great article called <URL> which goes into a lot more information , and includes some interesting statistics from the ASRS database about accidents/incidents that were in some way caused by not following this regulation : 48 % were altitude deviations 14 % were course deviations 14 % were runway transgressions 14 % were general distractions with no specific adverse consequences 8 % involved takeoffs or landings without clearance 2 % involved near mid-air collisions due to inattention and distractions . Abiding by the sterile cockpit rule can help you to avoid situations like that ! The article also gives some examples from the database and talks about a couple of crashes that were attributed to lack of compliance .
The first airplane with a cabin big enough for walking around was indeed a Sikorsky . This was the <URL> , also sometimes named " Le Grand " , a name which was given to an earlier , two-engined version . Oh , and the cabin included a washroom , too ! <URL> Sikorsky Russky Vityas ( picture <URL> ) It was the first four-engined airplane in the world and the biggest airplane of its time . It flew first on May 10 ( or 13 , depending on the source ) , 1913 . Quote from Wikipedia : After the Russky Vityaz 's first test flights between 10 and 27 May 1913 ( Old Style dates ) , it was established that a passenger could even walk around the cabins without causing any problems to stability . <URL> Early Le Grand version with two engines ( <URL> )
If you 're asking whether you can pay for one with an HSA or FSA , then yes , <URL> , though consult with your insurance provider first if they are covered by your plan . Physical Examination You can include in medical expenses the amount you pay for an annual physical examination and diagnostic tests by a physician . You do not have to be ill at the time of the examination . If you 're looking to add it to a list of itemized deductions , as Pondlife explained , it generally has to be <URL> . If you are a professional pilot , then this is deductible . What Can I Deduct ? To be deductible , a business expense must be both ordinary and necessary . An ordinary expense is one that is common and accepted in your industry . A necessary expense is one that is helpful and appropriate for your trade or business . An expense does not have to be indispensable to be considered necessary .
The first aircraft jet engine was ground tested by Frank Whittle in April 1937 . In September of the same year , Hans von Ohain ( ground ) tested his jet engine . The first jet aircraft , He 178 flew in August 1939 .
It appears that the first gyroscopic flight instrument in aviation was a gyroscopic stabilizer , with the purpose of <URL> ; it was first used ( publicly ) in 1914 . For this , the inventors , <URL> and <URL> were awarded the Collier Trophy in 1914 . Apparently <URL> by , ... linking the control surfaces with three gyroscopes , allowing flight corrections to be introduced based on the angle of deviation between the flight direction and the original gyroscopic settings . <URL> Lawrence Sperry and gyroscopic stabilizer , Image from wright-brothers . org The device ( with the gyroscopes spinning at 7000 rpm ) was <URL> on a Curtiss F aircraft in 1913 , with the first public flight in 1914 . <URL> Sperry 's second flyby in Paris in the 1914 competition , with Emil on the wing . Image from historicwings.com Elmer <URL> the turn and bank indicator and an optical drift indicator , for which he was awarded the Collier trophy again in 1916 .
AOPA has a <URL> about this , and it basically says : Since you failed the oral , more studying is probably in order . You will need to receive training in the area ( s ) of the checkride that you failed from a flight instructor . Once the flight instructor feels that you are proficient and able to pass the checkride , they will sign your logbook so that you may take it again . Schedule your checkride again . If you take it within 60 days , you will only need to test on the areas that you failed . After 60 days you have to take the entire checkride over again . Take your Notice of Disapproval ( 8060-5 ) with you to the checkride ( you did n't burn it did you ?? ) Like the article says , it is n't the end of the world ! About 20 % of first time applicants fail their checkride , but all you have to do is use it as a learning experience and let it make you an even better pilot . If you have questions about specific subjects , you can also ask questions here and we will be happy to help you out !
This is heavily dependent on the local jurisdictions you plan to operate in and what their laws are . First off you must find out if your desired countries of operation accept foreign certificates . This varies heavily all over the world and can range from full no questions asked acceptance , to you needing to simply take the test again ( in that country ) through any various case you can think of . Second you need to find out what certificate you need . Here in the US to give rides ( and receive compensation for such ) you need a commercial certificate . This looks like it <URL> . Hours . The FAA requires a few more hours than the Canadian certificate will , <URL> Are at least 16 years of age ; and Have logged at least 10 hours of flight time in a glider and that flight time must include at least 20 total glider flights , and Have 2 hours of solo flight time in a glider , and Have passed the FAA written examination ; and Have passed the flight exam with a FAA Examiner . <URL> A minimum of 6 hours of flight training under the direction and supervision of an instructor At least 2 hours of solo flight time , including a minimum of 20 takeoffs and 20 landings Right off the bad Canada requires 4 less hours which , no matter how you spin it will be cheaper ( since you have to pay for less time ) . Here is the US if you are not a citizen you will need to pass an NTSB background check to train . I do not know if Canada has a similar requirement . Travel , assuming you are in the Caribbean already it may be cheaper to travel to Florida ( or the like ) to train then go all the way up to Canada for your training . Edit : According to this document the ECCAA does issue glider ratings <URL> ( a ) The Authority may issue the following ratings for pilots ( i ) Category ratings in the following aircraft : ( a ) Aeroplane ; ( b ) Rotorcraft ; ( c ) Glider ; ( d ) Lighter-than-air ; ( e ) Power lift .
That 's pretty much the checkride in a nutshell - for all the details on what 's expected you should refer to the <URL> for the rating you 're pursuing . Before your checkride At some point before your checkride you must take a " knowledge test " ( the " written exam " ) - you must pass that exam in order to qualify to take the checkride ( the " practical test " ) . The results of the knowledge test are good for 2 years . You will also receive instruction from your CFI specifically for " checkride preparation " ( you must have 3 hours of this instruction within the 60 days prior to taking your checkride ) . Usually your instructor or school will arrange for an examiner . Be sure to find out where he wants you to plan your cross-country trip to , and also ask for his weight ( so you can do the weight and balance calculations ) , and the cost of the checkride ( so you can have the money ready ) . The Oral Exam The day of your checkride1 you 'll probably spend at least as much time on the ground with the examiner than in the air . You 'll start with the practicalities : making sure your <URL> is in order , <URL> , and paying the examiner . Next , you 'll go over your logbook with the examiner ( do everyone a favor and bookmark all the things they 'll need to see ) , and then you 'll be given <URL> 2 by the examiner . You 'll be expected to know your aircraft 's V speeds , it 's useful load , and its fuel capacity ( in gallons and hours ) , and you might have to be able to answer intelligently based on a scenario , like " supposed you want to take 3 members of your football team 's lineup on a 300 mile trip ... " There will also be scenario-based regulatory questions ( " You 're taking your friends for a flight in the spring , but you have n't been in an airplane all winter . What do you need in order to be able to conduct this flight ? " ) You will also be expected to plan ( or have planned , depending on the examiner3 ) a cross-country flight ( including a weight and balance calculation using the examiner 's weight , and possibly including one or more fuel stops ) , and be able to explain your decision-making process for things like the planned course ( if you do n't fly in an absolute straight line ) and your proposed altitude ( s ) and en-route waypoint ( s ) . 1 - Usually you do the oral exam , then go fly . Sometimes you may do the oral one day and the flight portion another day - for example if the weather is lousy . 2 - This video is a little old , but a lot of it is still valid . 3 - You used to have to complete the flight plan the day of the exam , within 30 minutes , but that requirement has vanished from the PTS . The Flight Exam Every examiner conducts this a little differently - the tasks can be done in any order as long as they 're all accomplished - but everyone I know has had the same basic sequence of events on their checkride . After the oral you 're going to get an update to your weather briefing ( because you should ) , do a preflight inspection , get in the plane , and go fly your cross-country . I 've never met anyone who has actually flown the whole cross-country flight -- The examiner will typically have you fly through one or two waypoints to demonstrate that you can actually navigate , then you 'll be told that something has gone awry and you need to divert ( " The guy in the back is sick , take me to the closest airport before he hurls . " ) . When you 've demonstrated your ability to navigate and divert , you 'll usually cancel your flight plan ( if you opened one ) and break off to do the required air work . At some point during your checkride the examiner will give you an engine failure , because aircraft engines are supremely unreliable whenever an examiner or CFI is in the right seat . You will be expected to pick a suitable landing point , establish a glide to that landing point , and run the " engine failure " checklist appropriate to your plane . The engine usually " miraculously restarts " at some point once the examiner is confident you would have been able to put the plane down on your intended landing spot . The air-work consists of all the require flight maneuvers , such as steep turns , stalls , slips , and slow flight , the required ground reference maneuvers , and basic instrument maneuvers . Once the air work is complete you 'll return to the airport ( or maybe to the airport you diverted to ) for the dog-and-pony-show landings ( one go-around -- usually called by the examiner with something exciting like " There 's a moose on the runway ! Go around ! " , one normal landing , one short-field landing over an FAA-Standard 50-foot giraffe , and one soft-field landing ) . If you mess up and the examiner has to fail you they will tell you immediately after finishing the maneuver that you busted on . You usually have the option of continuing the test and completing the remaining tasks unless you did something that made the examiner fear for his or her life ( if you 're comfortable continuing this reduces the number of tasks you 'll have to complete when you re-take the checkride ) . Assuming
There is no all-encompassing list of ' banned ' medications publically available for Australia . In the regulations there is a ' catch all ' to the effect of " pilots must not take any medications which may inhibit their ability to fly safely " . If you want specific advice on a specific medication , why not give CASA a call ? That or you can see a DAME ( which is a GP qualified to do aviation medical assessments ) . What you can find out there is general advice though . Although questions such as <URL> and <URL> refer to the US system , the Australian restrictions are not too dissimilar . Broardly speaking , Ritalin and other ' depressants ' are incompatible with flying . Bi-polar disorder faces many restrictions but stable depression is manageable . I did hear somewhere that you need to be off antidepressants for 12 months though . Diabetes and blood thinning medications are OK but subject to regular testing and scrutiny . As an aside , sometimes CASA , instead of outright refusing the medical , will place restrictions on it instead . This can be things like you must fly by day VFR only , or you can only fly with a qualified pilot next to you . EDIT : I found <URL> which has a list of medications to stay away from . It 's not exhaustive but it 's a start
There are two processes you can go through if your medical is denied - one is to appeal the denial to the FAA ( which you 'd do if your AME messed up and you can prove they 're wrong ) , the other is to reapply ( which is probably what you 'll want to do if you get denied ) . When you reapply you 're basically starting the medical certification process over from the beginning . You can reapply right away if you want , but practically you would reapply when you 've corrected whatever condition ( s ) caused you to be denied , and go back to your AME with documentation showing that your condition has been corrected ( or determined to be benign ) . I assume based on your question that you 've had to check the " Frequent or Severe Headaches " box , so you will continue to check that box , and may require a <URL> because of that -- your AME can give you more details if you wind up in this situation . If you do get denied talk to your AME ( and any other doctors you may be seeing ) about your next steps before doing anything - obviously medical issues are serious not just because they keep you out of the sky but because your health is important . You may also want to take advantage of <URL> - they have folks on staff who are experts at navigating the FAA medical process and can help you out . It could be worth it if you anticipate you 'll need assistance with medical certification over the long haul .
end question
start question
Are the N1 and N2 tachometer generators installed on 727 / JT8D engines line replaceable units ?
Usually , they are . In case of the JT8D engine , the N1 tach generator ( inside the nose bullet ) , atleast is a LRU . The AMT Society even has a <URL> .
The magnetron is a high-powered vacuum tube , that works as self-excited microwave oscillator . They are used mainly in radar transmitters as either pulsed or cw oscillators at frequencies . In ( civil ) aircraft , they are mostly used in weather radars . They have relatively simple construction but have been replaced in almost all aircraft due to their disadvantages : They can usually work only on a constructively fixed frequency . They have poor reliability . They have high power consumption and have noise issues . They have finite life , considerably lesser than solid state devices . Most of the aircraft operating today use solid state devices in their Radars . It may be still used in some older aircraft and helicopters , but they are becoming increasingly rare . Weather radars are regularly used by pilots to detect the weather conditions in front of them . According to Airbus Flight Operations Briefing Notes : Optimum Use of the Weather Radar The weather radar only detects : Rainfall Wet hail and wet turbulence Ice crystals , dry hail and dry snow . However , these three elements give small reflections compared to water droplets . It does not detect clouds , fog or clear air turbulence . Most of the aircraft in the list were designed 25 + years ago and have ( mostly ) switched over to solid state devices . Aircrafts are rarely used after 30 years as maintenance becomes expensive . However magnetrons are still used in some aircraft due to their simple construction and high power output . For example , the WU-880 Radar Receiver Transmitter Antenna in Honeywell Primus 880 radar used in Falcon 2000EX uses magnetron . Note : Almost all commercial aircraft use convection ovens to heat food ( they wo n't have aluminum foils if they microwave ovens were being used ) ; however , microwave ovens are available for aircraft and are used in some executive aircraft .
It depends on the autopilot and you need to read the AFM to know what the limitations are . All of the business jets that I have flown prohibit the use of the autopilot below a specific altitude ( between 50 and 1,000 feet depending on the autopilot and the configuration of the airplane ) . Nothing prevents then from being used lower but it is n't allowed . They will engage on the ground ( in fact it is part of the required preflight tests ) but have a specific prohibition against use for takeoff and landing . Other airplanes and autopilots however are approved for autoland all of the way down to a full stop , and some for takeoff as well . Speeds also depend on the autopilot . Some automatically disconnect if the aircraft receives a stall warning or overspeed signal but others do n't .
The engine in a typical light airplane ( say a Cessna 172 or a Piper Cherokee ) has a lot in common with the engine in a <URL> : Both engines are horizontally opposed four-stroke four-cylinder spark ignition gasoline engines . Their parts even have similar metallurgy , and broadly similar failure rates . In fact if you remove the gearbox and install a magneto ignition system <URL> that are popular in the experimental market , and have proven to be very reliable if well-maintained . Certificated aircraft engines ( the Lycoming and Continentals you would find in our hypothetical Piper or Cessna ) have a few other features not found on a Volkswagen engine : They have dual ignition systems ( two magnetos , two spark plugs per cylinder ) for redundancy in case one fails , and an oil sump designed to hold at least twice the capacity of oil needed for safe operation . They typically also have a manual mixture control to allow the pilot to lean the fuel/air mixture as they climb ( the VW Beetle generally did n't get too high above sea level , and when they did the local mechanic could adjust the mixture in the garage because those cars would probably stay at a relatively high altitude for most of their life - aircraft have an annoying habit of climbing and descending a lot , so either a manual mixture control or an altitude-compensating carburetor is necessary ) . So what accounts for the price difference ? Three things : FAA Certification , Volume , and Liability . FAA Certificated engines cost quite a bit of money : The manufacturer needs to thoroughly document their design and manufacturing practices , and ensure the engine meets the design requirements and can pass the tests described in <URL> . Doing ( and documenting ) all of this to the FAA 's satisfaction is not a small burden , and it adds to the cost of the final product . Volume is the next problem : As a reward for complying with Part 33 and getting your engine certified you now have the opportunity to sell your engine . To a very small market . There are far fewer piston aircraft than cars , and although piston aircraft engines are often " worn out " over the life of an airframe most owners overhaul their engines rather than replacing the whole engine outright . As a result the volume of new engine production is relatively low ( and with relatively brisk competition in the overhaul market the manufacturer is n't even guaranteed a substantial amount of that business ) . As with any other product , when volume is small price goes up to allow a profit . Liability is the last ( and probably largest ) factor affecting pricing : Jane Q. Pilot is flying along in his brand new just-off-the-production-line Cessna with her two kids and the family dog when the engine fails . She is unable to make a successful landing , and everyone dies , whereupon her bereaved and distraught husband John immediately sues the mechanic who last worked on the plane , Cessna ( who made the airframe ) , and Lycoming ( who made the engine ) . Being ready to deal with this kind of high-profile and high-cost event requires a substantial legal team ( the cost of which is built into each engine sold ) , and as the manufacturer is accepting a substantial risk the price gets bumped a bit more to provide a balancing reward ( profit ) . So to answer your bullet-pointed questions which I largely ignored in the explanation above : Are aircraft engine parts expected to be less likely to fail ? We may have this expectation given the price tag , but in reality they 're probably about as reliable as any other well-maintained air-cooled 1960s engine design . A modern car engine has a number of design and technological advantages over the typical piston aircraft engine , and if we equipped them with dual independent ignition systems and gave them the kind of maintenance aircraft engines get they may well beat aircraft engines in terms of reliability . ( Of course a modern car engine also weighs a lot more than a typical aircraft engine , so some money would have to be spent making it lighter without sacrificing that reliability . ) What is done to allow the engine to function at extreme temperatures / altitudes / air densities ? Surprisingly little : The addition of a mixture control for the carburetor , dual independent ignition systems , and a healthy weight consciousness pretty much covers it . Do changes have to be made to allow a piston engine to function while upside down ( in a roll ) ? Yes ( the fuel and lubrication systems for need to be designed to handle zero / negative G loads for an extended period of time ) , but your typical piston aircraft engine is n't designed to function while upside down : Aerobatic aircraft engines are a slightly different beast , and they cost a little more than their non-aerobatic counterparts . What components are different on an aircraft vs automotive piston engine ( magnetos vs. spark plugs , oil system ) ? The biggest difference between a 1960s VW engine on a classic Beetle and a 2015 Lycoming O-320 is the dual magneto ignition system . The r
Looking at the hurricane manuals for a few airports , evacuating flyable aircraft to a safer location tends to be the most common choice . From the <URL> Effective with the issuance of a Storm WARNING and/or Hurricane WARNING : Relocate flyable aircraft to other geographical areas , place under suitable shelter , or secure as appropriate . Also , from the <URL> Upon receipt of a Hurricane Warning , Airside Operations will : Initiate evacuation of all flyable aircraft and post Airfield Operations Senior Agents and Agents in detail to insure compliance and report results .
Your assumption is correct - it is indeed about infrared ( wavelength between 750 nm and 10,000 nm ) and ultraviolet ( wavelength between 100 nm and 400 nm ) radiation . The sensor detected two specific wavelengths , one from each range . Every body has an <URL> which is consistent with its temperature . This radiation has an intensity distribution which shifts to shorter wavelengths with temperature . By comparing the intensity of the IR and UV parts of this radiation , the sensor can much better distinguish between radiation sources of different temperature . Flares are normally hotter than engine exhausts , so by detecting an excess of UV radiation , the sensor can distinguish between flares and exhaust pipes . <URL> " Wiens law " by 4C - <URL> . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via Commons . Natural disturbances means reflected sunlight off a polished aircraft surface or canopy , or off lakes or windows on the ground . Even after filtering by the upper atmosphere , sunlight will contain much more UV radiation than your average exhaust pipe , and glares were a big distraction to early thermal seekers . Sunlight would correspond to the green line in the diagram above , while the exhaust would be even below the dark red line . Note that the absolute intensity also goes up with temperature , but would not help in identifying the temperature of a target if only one wavelength is observed . A more distant , hotter target would cause the same intensity than a colder , closer one . By sensing two wavelengths , the sensor could much better tell an exhaust pipe from other heat sources . To answer the question directly : The UV signature of the aircraft itself is practically zero except for the reflection of the UV part of sunlight , and the active UV emission of a jet engine is extremely low and concentrated around its exhaust when seen from behind . Lighting the afterburner will increase the UV radiation , but it will still be much less relative to the IR radiation that that of , say , <URL> .
Inspired by this question , I would like to know what the pro 's and con 's of the mostly used vacuum-gyro and the less used high-pressure-gyro is . It is largely related to the instruments in your aircraft but in reality its all about air pressure and the systems are really doing the same thing in the end of the day . Lets look at the evolution a bit , early aircraft that lacked an electrical system generally used a small external venturi to generate low pressure suction for the early gyro instruments . Note the venturi tube in front of the door about half way up the body on this early <URL> . <URL> ( <URL> ) Since it was easy to generate low pressure this way early instruments were built as suction based . As planes got faster and external ( drag educing ) things were removed these systems went internal . Since the instruments were already suction based it was logical to make engine ( or electrical ) suction pumps to drive them . When pumps moved into the engine compartment they came with some issues . Wet suction pumps have an oil issue that can seep into the system and cause issues with the instruments . That was solved with the advent of the dry pneumatic pump however that was a bit more susceptible to debris clogging but could provide both positive and negative pressure . <URL> . However the end result is that both systems provide the same outcome and in the view of the instruments there is no real difference . Gyro Instruments Within the case of the gyro instrument the air flows through the air seals of the gimbalsʼ bearings and across the rotor , spinning the rotor on its axes . The exhausting airflow from the rotor housing applies precession forces to maintain a reference to earth in the attitude gyro and the attitude of the aircraft in the directional gyro . The mechanics of the gyro instrument remain the same , whether it is driven by the airflow in a pressure or vacuum system . The air - flow through the instrument is a result of the differential pressure between the instrumentʼs air inlet and the air outlet ports . In a vacuum system the pressure at the air outlet port is lowered below atmospheric pressure . The differential pressure between the atmosphere and the pump now forces air to flow through the instrument . In a pressure system the pressure at the air inlet port is raised above atmospheric pressure and the airflow is in the same direction . So what are some pros and cons , In a vacuum system the filter is upstream and air is pulled through it and it does a good job of keeping the air clean . ... filtering the air entering the instrument . This filter will remove most contaminates from the air , but moisture is not one of them . Periodic replacement of this filter will ensure clean airflow through the instruments . While in pressure based systems the air filter is generally mounted in line but has a similar effect In a pressure system there is an inline filter in the line between the outlet port of the pump and the inlet port of the gyro instrument . This restricts , but does not completely stop , the flow of all contaminates to the instrument . However pressure systems have a moisture problem since the compression of air creates moisture , this may add moisture while a suction system will only draw ambient moisture . Unfortunately when air is compressed , moisture is created . Although the pressure is extremely low ( approximately 2.5 to 4.5 PSI ) , this system is no exception . Moisture is the No. 1 contaminate , contaminating the gyro bearings in a pressure system . The paper also outlines that both systems are susceptible to downtime due to pump inspections and system maintenance . Which is a con of both systems . Side-question : Are there any other ways to make the Artificial Horizon work ? <URL> <URL> ( <URL> )
Ultralights are regulated under <URL> and there are very few regulations of any kind that apply to them . The only specific lighting requirement is in <URL> : § 103.11 Daylight operations . ( a ) No person may operate an ultralight vehicle except between the hours of sunrise and sunset . ( b ) Notwithstanding paragraph ( a ) of this section , ultralight vehicles may be operated during the twilight periods 30 minutes before official sunrise and 30 minutes after official sunset or , in Alaska , during the period of civil twilight as defined in the Air Almanac , if : ( 1 ) The vehicle is equipped with an operating anticollision light visible for at least 3 statute miles ; and ( 2 ) All operations are conducted in uncontrolled airspace . <URL> and <URL> have some information about what an anticollision light actually is ( a beacon and/or strobe ) , but since ultralights are so lightly regulated I 'd be surprised if anyone cares much about the exact form of lighting . However , you could check with your local EAA chapter or ultralight club to see what people typically use .
Just imagine an aerobatic aircraft going straight up and rolling at the same trime - sure it will have positive lift on one side and negative on the other while accelerating into the roll or when stopping the rolling motion . Note that during a constant rolling motion while in a vertical climb the overall rolling moment and the <URL> both are zero . Also , wing twist will cause very little lift or even a small downforce at the wingtip at low angle of attack . I remember that the wingtips of the <URL> and <URL> gliders would point downwards from the negative lift at high speed . The high aspect ratio glass fiber wing would bend a lot and indicate the local lift with a local change in curvature . However , if you were flying an approach , the aircraft should have flown too slowly to allow for that condition , unless it also started to roll violently from the lift asymmetry . If you had to apply full aileron to counter a gust-induced rolling moment , that very aileron deflection would avoid any negative lift on one of the wingtips . This only leaves the possibility that you had negative lift for a very short moment and over a small part of the wing when the gust hit you and before you countered the rolling motion with the ailerons .
They use the airport power . The airport and its important equipment have backup power and/or a dedicated power plant ( which itself will have backup plans ) . This is what the FAA says : The FAA recognizes the need to have a reliable power source to operate NAVAIDs , even during utility power outages . Order 6030.20 establishes Continuous Power Airports ( CPAs ) that provide continuous operations in the event of an area-wide utility failure . Backup power to designated runways at these airports must be able to supply power for at least 4 hours for runway lighting as well as navigation , landing and communication equipment . In addition , FAA policy also requires that power systems used for support of Category ( CAT ) II and CAT-III operations must be capable of transferring to an alternate source within one second . Source : <URL> Basically it 's to avoid having to <URL> . Select airports and runways have to be able to operate . ICAO recommends the same thing and lists the criteria airports need to meet in Annex 14 , section 8.1 Secondary power supply . For example : 8.1.5 Recommendation . -- Requirements for a secondary power supply should be met by either of the following : -- independent public power , which is a source of power supplying the aerodrome service from a substation other than the normal substation through a transmission line following a route different from the normal power supply route and such that the possibility of a simultaneous failure of the normal and independent public power supplies is extremely remote ; or -- standby power unit ( s ) , which are engine generators , batteries , etc. , from which electric power can be obtained . For navaids in general that are not within an airport , then ICAO Annex 10 , Volume I , Part I , Chapter 2 handles the recommendations .
Engines on airliners turn the same direction . The torque is n't as much an issue on jets as it is on props . A lot of multiengine prop planes have propellers that turn in opposite directions . In turbine engines this can be done in a gearbox to allow the same engine to be used on both sides . Some turbine engines , such as the PT6 , have two turbines turning in opposite directions , but the propeller friction produces additional torque in one direction . Single engine planes sometimes have the engine mounted at a slight angle to reduce the effect of the propwash ( and maybe torque ? ) . The propwash causes imbalance at low speed and high power when the descending blade tends to push air down over the wing on that side , and and vice versa for the ascending blade . Immediately after takeoff , the rudder of a single engine plane is normally depressed , to some extent , to make up for the uneven torque and propwash . This may be done manually , with trim settings , or both . At higher speeds , the effect of the propeller torque is not as noticeable because the wings are held " more tightly " by the airflow .
Some countries do n't get the most powerful engines and have to use what is available in the market . To avoid upsetting China too much , the US would not sell the <URL> or the <URL> to Taiwan , and a derivative of a <URL> had to be developed . A second reason is redundancy : When the US Navy had to decide between the <URL> and what <URL> , they preferred the design with two engines , because losing your only engine over water is a much more life-threatening experience than losing it over land . Similarly , the Eurofighter was designed more for peace than for war - having two engines will reduce training losses . Generally , a single , bigger engine will be more powerful and more efficient per unit of mass , because manufacturing tolerances will be relatively smaller in the bigger engine , if the same technology is used for both . Single engines need to have more system redundancy than one of a pair of engines , so some of that advantage can not be transferred into the finished design . Nevertheless , from a performance standpoint the single engine fighter will look better .
The Suntan project needed all fuselage space to hold three tanks for liquid hydrogen , so the engines had to be placed somewhere else . Placing them near the fuselage would put them in the range of the fuselage 's shock waves . Putting them out on the wing would help with wing bending relief and ensure a clean intake flow . Once they are so far out , you can as well put them on the wingtips , so that they do not cause a pitch-up moment . On the SR-71 , the engines were also placed outside the fuselage and into the wing 's plane , much for the same reasons . Keeping the intake flow uniform is paramount for the undisturbed operation of supersonic intakes , and I assume that Kelly Johnson wanted to make sure that the engines would not suffer an unstart when flying reconnaissance missions over hostile territory . With the little experience in supersonic flight in 1955 it was prudent to avoid built-in pitching moments - after all , the supersonic L/D likely was in the single digits , so an out-of-plane engine placement would had produced more moment than on subsonic aircraft . Hydrogen was selected to achieve the highest possible flight altitude , so the aircraft would be safe from surface-to-air missiles for as long as possible . I initially thought that the wingtip location would enable to cool the hot wing structure by heating up the hydrogen on its way to the engine , but heating was planned to be done with bleed air in a special heat exchanger . Quoting <URL> : The CL-400 design divided the hydrogen tankage into three sections ; the forward tank had a capacity of 67 000 liters ; aft , 54 000 ; and center ( sump ) , 15 000 . The two main tanks were kept at 2.3 atmospheres pressure and the sump tank slightly lower for fuel transfer . In the sump was a booster pump , built by Pesco Products , that supplied liquid hydrogen to the engines at a pressure of 4.4 atmospheres . The engines were mounted at the wing tips , which meant that the liquid hydrogen had to pass through a hot wing with surface temperatures up to 436 K . The design provided a vacuum-jacketed , insulated line for this purpose . Regarding the perceived danger of using hydrogen , <URL> says : Tests were devised in which tanks containing liquid hydrogen under pressure were ruptured . In many cases , the hydrogen quickly escaped without ignition . The experimenters then provided a rocket squib ( a small powder charge ) to ignite the escaping , hydrogen . The resulting fireball quickly dissipated because of the rapid flame speed of hydrogen and its low density . Containers of hydrogen and gasoline were placed side by side and ruptured . When the hydrogen can was ruptured and ignited , the flame quickly dissipated - , but when the same thing was done with gasoline , the gasoline and flame stayed near the container and did much more damage . The gasoline fire was an order of magnitude more severe than the hydrogen fire . The experimenters tried to induce hydrogen to explode , with limited success . In 61 attempts , only two explosions occurred and in both , they had to mix oxygen with the hydrogen . Their largest explosion was produced by mixing a half liter of liquid oxygen with a similar volume of liquid hydrogen . Johnson and Rich were convinced that , with proper care , liquid hydrogen could be handled quite safely and was a practical fuel-a conclusion that was amply verified by the space program in the 1960s . At the time , however , Johnson and Rich filmed their fire and explosion experiments to convince doubters . When work on Suntan started , liquid hydrogen was a laboratory curiosity . Preparing the infrastructure needed for operating the CL-400 , the Suntan project led to the building of large-scale liquid hydrogen plants . Their availability paved the way for the cryogenic rockets of the Apollo program ! Interestingly , a similar engine location was selected by the Russian design bureaus <URL> and <URL> supersonic bomber in the mid-50s . It was started after news of the US Weapon System 110 ( which later led to the XB-70 ) reached Russia and was similarly cancelled after two prototypes had been built and only one aircraft had flown . <URL> M-50 during display in 1961 at Tushino airshow ( picture <URL> ) . Note the similarity of the Mig-21 and M-50 planform - both originated from the same work done at <URL> . Placing the outer engines below the wing would had caused ground contact on rotation . Speaking of rotation : The M-50 had two central gears and the bomb bay between them , and the main gear had to be placed so far aft that the M-50 could not be rotated the usual way with the elevator . So the engineers devised what they called the " galloping bicycle " . When the aircraft reached 300 km/h , the forward gear rapidly extended to rotate it to 10 ° . Placing the outer engines B-58-like below the wing would had required an even longer gear .
Well , first let 's clear up a few terms . When you say " rotary " engine I 'm assuming you 're referring to <URL> , a type of piston engine that used to be pretty common on aircraft . ( These days <URL> are what you typically find on piston-powered aircraft , <URL> are yet another design , but their usage died out around the end of World War I. ) The TU-95 is not actually a piston-powered aircraft - it 's a <URL> -- basically a turbine engine similar to what you 'd find in a jet , only rigged up to turn a propeller rather than produce " jet thrust " directly . From an efficiency standpoint , turbine engines are usually more fuel efficient than their piston counterparts , and jet fuel is produced in greater volume than aviation gasoline and is consequently cheaper for operators to procure . Turbine engines also offer more reliability than piston engines , and the maintenance on a turboprop engine is also largely similar to a jet engine with a few extra components , which is an advantage for a company operating a fleet of jet and propeller driven aircraft . The differences in operating efficiency and reliability are the major reason why gasoline-powered piston engines have basically disappeared from scheduled airline service . So why do n't we see more turboprops ? Actually we see a lot of them , if you look in the right places . Jets and Turboprops are good at different things -- broadly simplifying , a turboprop is more efficient at lower altitudes and airspeeds while a jet engine is more efficient at higher altitudes and airspeeds . As a result we see turboprop aircraft like <URL> in use for short-haul " commuter " service , but for trans-continental or trans-oceanic flights where they spend a long time cruising at high altitude jets dominate the sky . Since most people are flying to go relatively long distances there are comparatively more jets in scheduled airline service than turboprops . Noise is probably also a factor - fast turboprops like the Bear are LOUD not due to the engine , but due to the propeller . The tips of the spinning propeller on a TU-95 can approach supersonic speeds , which causes quite a bit of noise . The TU-95 's <URL> ( which help produce thrust more efficiently ) also contribute to a louder noise footprint . In the case of the TU-95 this does n't matter - it 's a military plane , and the Russian air force does n't care if people complain as the aircraft has a mission to complete and that 's more important than a few noise complaints . If United Airlines were to operate a TU-95 out of Kennedy departing over people 's houses I suspect they would quickly reconsider their choice of equipment when the noise complaints started coming in ...
The exact number of air marshals is not public information , and they certainly do n't disclose what flights they fly on or other operational details . However , the number <URL> to be on the order of ~ 3,000-4 ,000 and reports indicate the number has decreased somewhat since then . All of them are , of course , not on duty 24/7/365 . There are around <URL> a day in the US alone , but only around 28,000 are commercial passenger flights , where air marshals are presumably most likely ( hopefully there 's not a need for air marshals on military flights , for instance ) . So for some back of the envelope math , let 's conservatively say there are 3,500 air marshals who all work five days a week , they all work alone ( in reality , they appear to work at least in pairs ) , and they somehow manage to average protecting four flights a day . Even with these conservative assumptions , that would only be 5000 flights/day covered by air marshals . From this , it should be clear that there can not possibly be an air marshal on every commercial flight in the US . The President of the Air Marshal Association/CWA ( their union ) , not entirely a disinterested party , <URL> : " There are around 30,000 commercial flights per day over the U.S. , " says Casaretti . " If you were to attempt to place a team of just two FAMs on each flight , it would require an agency of over 75,000 FAMs ( accounting for training and days off ) . FAMs cover a very small percentage of commercial flights . " Which flight air marshals get on is determined by a computer program that assesses the probability of threat based on the aircraft , departure and destination cities , as well as the amount of fuel on board . This is the threat matrix that comes out of the missions operation center . The TSA will not release statistics on the number of air marshals . TSA 's Pascarella acknowledges only " many thousands . " But Biles estimates that there are approximately 3,300 FAMs and of those , 34 % are filling ground assignments in training , operations and management . " We call them ' chair marshals , ' riding out their career in management , " says Biles . That leaves 66 % of the workforce to perform in-flight security duties . " If one accounts for vacations , sick leave , medical leave and days off , some air marshals working in operations have told me that this accounts for less than one half percent of all U.S.-flagged aircraft being covered by federal air marshals , " he says .
Short answer : Rudder and ailerons have different purposes and control rotation about two different axis , but their use is coordinated since a rotation about one axis induces a secondary rotation on the other one . The rudder use is mostly to prevent unwanted yaw movement for safety and comfort , or to force yaw against the aircraft tendency to keep the aircraft facing the relative wind ( e.g. for a cross-wind landing ) . See <URL> for a more comprehensive explanation . A turn is performed using the ailerons , but for a non-small turn an adverse yaw opposite to the turn develops , the rudder is used to maintain the desired attitude and what is known as a <URL> . When a yaw damper is available , coordinated turns can be conducted without pilot action on the rudder , as the yaw damper controls the rudder automatically . Detailed answer When speed and altitude increase , using the rudder to turn around the yaw axis with the wings horizontal , tends to make the aircraft flies <URL> in the same direction rather than to turn it . Turning this way would require a larger rudder area and would generate additional drag . So this is not the way an aircraft is steered in flight . Banking turns the aircraft An aircraft actually turns by changing the bank ( or roll ) angle . When the aircraft spins about this roll axis , the direction of the lift is changed , and can be seen as having two components : <URL> ( <URL> ) The horizontal component of the lift moves the aircraft away from its original path and a turn starts . Yawing aligns the aircraft with the wind Lowering the aileron on a wing makes it more efficient , it generates more lift and raises . But generating more lift also induces more drag . <URL> ( <URL> ) This drag in excess tends to slow the aircraft on the upper wing side . This creates an <URL> movement in the direction opposite to the one desired . <URL> ( <URL> ) The pilot uses the rudder to counter the adverse yaw and keep the fuselage axis facing the airflow , countering <URL> effects . This is known as performing a <URL> . Ailerons-rudder coordination The amount of rudder to apply can be determined using ( human senses and ) different instruments , including the <URL> which is a sort of level usually associated with a bank or rate of turn indicator . <URL> ( <URL> ) <URL> ( <URL> ) When executing a coordinated level turn without wind , at sea level , etc , the radius of the turn and the turn rate depend only on the airspeed and the bank angle : TAS 150kt , bank 20 ° : Radius 1,676 m , 360 ° in 2:16 . TAS 300kt , bank 30 ° : Radius 4,227 m , 360 ° in 3:51 . See <URL> for additional information . Ailerons deflection reduced in the turn Note that when the desired bank angle is reached , the pilot reduces the ailerons deflection . The excess of lift and drag on the upper wing decreases too , as does the adverse yaw . The rudder deflection can be reduced too . Normally the aircraft should maintain its bank and continue to turn with ailerons in neutral position , due to the upper wing flying faster and generating more lift . However the aircraft in a rolled attitude actually slips into the turn and the dihedral effect tends to decrease the roll angle of the slipping aircraft ( <URL> ) . So some degree of aileron deflection will be maintained . The ailerons ( and the rudder ) are used to return the wings to their horizontal position and stop the turn more accurately . Yaw damper In commercial airliners , the yaw control is assisted by one or two <URL> which function is to increase the yaw stability and prevent the development of the dangerous <URL> . Thanks to the yaw dampers , the pilot does not need to use the rudder pedals for coordinated turns . <URL> ( <URL> )
Wind affects your flight path angle by affecting how far you travel while you 're descending . With no thrust from the engine an airplane is falling out of the sky at a roughly constant rate of descent . The wind direction affects the groundspeed , and thus the distance covered between when the engine failed &amp; when the aircraft hits the ground . This is more directly observable from outside the airplane . Consider these 4 scenarios on a post-it note : The airplane has lost its engine , and the pilot is flying at best-glide airspeed while holding a constant magnetic heading ( making no wind corrections ) : <URL> No Wind The aircraft descends along the no-wind glide path ( about 45 degrees in my drawing ) , and travels in a straight line over the ground ( the " ground track " ) while doing so . Headwind The aircraft descends along a steeper glide path ( about 60 degrees in my drawing ) , because while it 's still descending at the same rate the headwind is slowing its progress over the ground . Since it 's a direct headwind ( right on the nose ) the ground track is still straight . Tailwind The aircraft descends along a shallower glide path ( about 30 degrees in my drawing ) , because while it 's still descending at the same rate it has a tailwind , which is making it move faster over the ground . Since it 's a direct tailwind the ground track is still straight here too . Crosswind The aircraft descends along the no-wind glide path ( because it has neither a headwind nor a tailwind ) , but the crosswind pushes the ground track ( in this case into the inconveniently-placed tree ) . Your endurance ( time aloft ) will be similarly unaffected : If you 've set the aircraft up at its optimum glide angle-of-attack ( best glide airspeed ) the descent rate is pretty much the same regardless of whether you have a headwind , tailwind , or crosswind . You will fall the same distance in the same amount of time , it 's just a matter of how far you travel while you 're falling ( which determines where you land ) . You can test this for yourself in an airplane by doing engine-out drills : Line up with a headwind , pull the throttle out , and pitch for the aircraft 's best glide speed . Note your vertical speed ( rate of descent ) , and then repeat the test in the opposite direction ( tailwind ) or at 90 degrees to your original course ( direct crosswind ) : The vertical speed will be effectively the same .
Jet-A is mostly for turbine engines in general . Turbine engines can be fueled with nearly anything that you can spray over an open flame and will burn . It is not a substitute for avgas , for the same reasons that diesel is not a substitute for petrol . You can fuel a diesel engine with Jet-A under some circumstances .
You have 3 questions : What exactly happens in the aircraft when disengaging the generators ? What benefit does it have to be not able to engage them again ? Is it only the B747 that works like that or also other Airliners ? What exactly happens in the aircraft when disengaging the generators ? As mentioned in the other answers : A solenoid removes a retention pin . This allows a spring-driven pawl to engage a worm gear on the drive input shaft . This causes the inner input shaft to disengage from the engine drive . Thus the generator drive rapidly coasts to a stop . <URL> Source : <URL> What benefit does it have to be not able to engage them again ? The primary reason to disconnect the generators is when some mechanical problem causes a risk of serious mechanical damage to them . From <URL> : Condition : Low IDG oil pressure or high IDG oil temperature . Crew Response : Affected GENERATOR DRIVE DISCONNECT switch PUSH . Note : This action prevents damage to the IDG . DRIVE DISC message is displayed . ELECT GEN OFF message is displayed . A lesser reason might be to prevent a seized-up generator drive from adversely affecting an otherwise operable engine . Since whatever caused the loss of oil ( pressure ) and/or overheating almost never can be corrected in the air , then there is no point in being able to reengage the generator drives in the air . Furthermore , to provide that capability would require complex mesh gears , clutches , and mechanisms that would add considerable weight and more points of failure -- all to cover a contingency that is both rare and very unlikely to be critical ( discounting sabotage ) . Is it only the B747 that works like that or also other Airliners ? Most large jet aircraft use some form of Constant speed drive ( CSD ) to power their electrical generators , as the alternatives are not well suited to the large electrical demands of jetliners . From Wikipedia , we see that <URL> .
Yes , they are official , this is the <URL> approach plate : <URL> I ca n't find a " East Channel Departure " but if you know what airport it belongs to , you can find it in the Terminal Procedures publication , either in paper form or <URL> . They are not VFR procedures , but rather visual IFR procedures . The MALL VISUAL would not be assigned to a VFR flight . Some airports do have special arrival/departure procedures which apply to VFR flights ; these can be found in the Airport/Facilities Directory ( A/FD ) or on a website like <URL> ( for the US anyway ) .
end question
start question
Why is n't the point you begin descent part of the flight plan ?
You can calculate ToD beforehand or let the FMS do the work . In reality though , you generally do n't get to wait until your optimal ToD to start descending , especially flying into busy airports . If the airport has arrival routes , you 'll be flying one and there will be crossing restrictions that are either part of the arrival clearance or expected clearances from ATC . When you are flying the route you 'll set the crossing restriction altitudes in the FMS and the FMS will generate ToD points to make those restrictions . You can also use the 1000 ' / 3NM rule to calculate your own ToD for each crossing restriction . Going into smaller fields I often set my own target altitude of 10,000 ' 30 NM from the airport and used that to generate a ToD for descending from cruise . If you are landing in the direction of your arrival into a small airport and ATC is generous with pilot discretion descents you can sometimes manage an idle descent from cruise all the way to the FAF , but not often . Finally , while the ToD might not explicitly be on the flight plan , it is accounted for in the planning . The dispatcher has to account for expected fuel burn for the flight so we have the right amount of fuel , and the performance calculations they do takes the descent from cruise into the terminal environment into account .
There are a lot of things that go into determining the most efficient way to operate a jet , and minimizing fuel does not always make it cheaper to operate . Some general " rules " that are used are : There is an optimum speed to fly the airplane , which depends on several factors : Altitude Fuel savings by flying slower - vs - increased maintenance costs because you are taking longer to get there ( and putting more time on the airframe/engines ) . Temperature at cruising altitude Winds at cruising altitude There is also an optimum altitude to fly the airplane : Aircraft weight The higher that you can fly , the better - until you do n't have enough power to maintain your optimum speed at the optimum power setting for the engines . Temperature at cruising altitude Winds at cruising altitude Altitudes that are available from ATC The amount of fuel and time that it takes to climb - vs - the amount of time that you will have at the high speed cruise Anything that makes the airplane heavier makes it unable to climb as high ( and lowers the optimum altitude for the current conditions ) , and makes it burn more fuel . This includes the fuel itself . Assuming a constant speed and constant weather conditions , you will always be more fuel efficient later in the flight . As fuel gets burned off , the amount of thrust required to maintain the optimum speed goes down and the optimum altitude goes up . Basically , we keep reducing the power to maintain speed until the optimum altitude increases to an altitude that ATC can let us climb to . This is known as a step climb . The speed will be controlled manually by the pilot , or can be controlled automatically by auto throttles . Today 's sophisticated flight planning software takes all of this into account and gives the pilot a very good plan on how to operate the airplane to be the most efficient !
Basically , it 's a combination of historical significance , passenger comfort , and ease of mental calculation . Historically , before aircraft were pressurized a rapid descent would be uncomfortable for passengers . At the speeds typically flown , a 300ft/min descent was deemed to be comfortable enough for the typical passenger . Many aircraft had a cruising speed between 100 -- 120 miles per hour ( 160 -- 190 km/h ) . Three miles would be traveled in about 1.5 -- 1.8 minutes , resulting in a rate of descent of about 550 -- 660 feet per minute . That was about as fast as passengers could comfortably adapt to the changing pressure on their eardrums . However , many pilots used a 300-feet-per-minute descent rate because doing so is almost unnoticed by passengers . A pilot cruising at 10,500 feet would calculate that in order to be at 1,000 feet at his destination , he would have to descend 9,500 feet . Dividing 9,500 feet by 300 feet per minute , that descent would require about 32 minutes . If his ground speed was 120 miles per hour ( 190 km/h ) , he would begin his descent about 64 miles ( 103 km ) from his destination ( traffic permitting ) . As you can see , there is a reasonably simple mental calculation that can be done there . This is commonly referred to as <URL> which is in part quoted above . That covers descent from cruising altitude , however you are right that flight in IFR will depend on procedures , and scenario . An example is <URL> which uses a much steeper descent profile of 5.5 degrees on approach to land .
There is a very good reason not to run this test : If it is not done perfectly your engine can become starved of fuel during takeoff . For simplicity let 's assume your fuel selector only has two positions ( Left and Right ) and think about what 's involved in the test and a few things that can go wrong : What are we testing ? One of the points of an engine Runup is to verify that the fuel system can deliver a fuel flow sufficient to allow the engine to develop takeoff power . There are other things we 're verifying but let 's stick with that item for this discussion . How can we verify this ? We verify that the fuel system has adequate flow by running the engine up to something resembling takeoff power ( most runup checklists do n't have you go to full throttle , but you advance the throttle enough that the engine is demanding a significant fuel flow compared to idling and taxiing around ) . To verify that your fuel system is allowing sufficient fuel flow from each tank you would have to switch tanks during the engine run-up ( with the engine at runup power ) and wait long enough to exhaust any fuel that might be in the system between the fuel selector and the engine . If the fuel selector handle comes off in your hand or the engine quits you found the problem on the ground , so you can get a tow back to the ramp and get the fuel system fixed . What can go wrong ? The test above sounds innocent enough , but it 's deceptively dangerous . Here are two possible failure modes that may make you rethink it : The second tank does n't have adequate fuel flow . This could be a complete obstruction of the tank pickup or just a restriction in one of the lines , but for some reason the second tank will not supply a fuel flow sufficient for takeoff and climb out at full power . You may miss this if you do n't wait long enough at runup power after switching tanks to drain the fuel from the system forward of the fuel selector , and now your engine suddenly got quiet as you 're rolling down the runway - or worse it quits 100 feet off the ground and now you 're having a Really Bad Day ! You missed the fuel selector detent . Easy enough to do , especially if fuel selector maintenance has been lacking and the positions are not really distinct ( when is the last time you * really , critically , felt the clicks on your plane ? ) . It could happen in the initial switch , or when switching back to the first tank if that 's your procedure . A fuel selector not in a specific tank position may still allow enough fuel flow to complete a runup when combined with the fuel left forward of the fuel selector , but it may be too restricted to allow a takeoff . The fuel selector may also vibrate into an OFF position during takeoff . In this scenario maybe your engine stops at 200-300 feet , but you 're still having a Really Bad Day . In both of these scenarios the engine is still running because there is fuel in the system between the fuel selector and the engine ( the two big reservoirs are the fuel strainer / gascolator &amp; the carburetor float bowl , but there are also fuel lines that will need to drain before the engine dies ) . To get an idea how long these reserves last try setting your engine to Runup power and turning off the fuel selector . You may be surprised how long the engine will run before the fuel after the selector is exhausted . Also remember the time will vary based on power setting , mixture setting , and even aircraft attitude sitting on the ground allowing more or less fuel to get to the carburetor from the lines ( a nose-high attitude during takeoff may starve your engine more quickly than sitting level on the runup pad ) . How can we safely conduct this test ? Making sure your fuel tanks all work is kind of important , especially if you are going to be making a flight near the endurance limit of your fuel . There is no 100 % safe way to conduct this test , but the way I was taught seems to have the fewest possible failure modes : Start , taxi , Runup , and takeoff should be conducted on one tank . Typically this is " the fullest tank " , but if they 're all equally full then either the one the fuel system return flows to if your airplane has such a thing , or just pick one . By using the one tank for all your ground operations and your Runup you are pretty much guaranteeing that it flows sufficient fuel to allow a takeoff , and that at least this position on the fuel selector works . After takeoff switch tanks after reaching a safe altitude . Do this with enough fuel left in the tank you took off on to turn around and get back to where you started in case you discover the tank you switched to does n't work , and as with any tank switch be prepared for the fuel selector handle to come off in your hand : Know where you 'll put the plane if that happens ! If your engine stops a few minutes after you switch tanks ... ... you now have a good reason to suspect that the tank you switched to does n't work . Per the first rule of troubleshooting , undo the last change you made ( switch back to the worki
If you 're interested in a more visual , and less technical , explanation of Space Shuttle reentry and landing , I gave a talk titled <URL> at the Stack Overflow meetup in October 2016 . I did n't notice this question until a couple of days ago , but as someone with an unhealthy obsession with specifically the entry and landing phases of shuttle flights , I can say there is a lot of factually incorrect information in the other answers here . Let me see if I can explain it better . First , the two easy questions , which were answered well by other questions , but I 'll include here as well for completeness : Could the shuttle perform a go-around ? No . The OMS engines are too weak to make a difference in the atmosphere , and the main engines ( which would be powerful enough ) are only fueled by the orange external tank which is jettisoned after launch . Where did it land ? 78 missions landed at the Kennedy Space Center , 54 ( including the first ) at <URL> , and 1 at <URL> . There were other landing sites designated for emergencies , but none were ever used . Now , for the really big question of how the shuttle reentered and landed . The primary source I 'm going to cite in this answer is the Entry , TAEM , and Approach/Landing Guidance Workbook 21002 which was a workbook used for training astronauts . Sadly , I do n't have a link to it , but it can be obtained from <URL> via an <URL> if you 're really interested . I 'm going to abreviate this source as ETAGW . Orbital Mechanics First , a real quick lesson in orbital mechanics . In order to change the altitude of your orbit you make a change in velocity ( $ \ Delta v $ ) . If you increase velocity , you 'll increase altitude , and if you decrease velocity , you 'll decrease altitude . However , this effect is most pronounced 180 ° from the position where you made the change . After a complete 360 ° orbit , you 'll be at approximately the same altitude you started at . This illustrates the effect : <URL> Starting from the circular orbit ( black ) , if you slow down at point A , you might end up with something like the red orbit , and if you speed up you might end up with something like the blue orbit . Deorbit Burn Because of the nature of orbital mechanics , as described above , you want to perform your deorbit maneuver on the opposite side of the planet from your intended landing site . This typically occurred over the Indian Ocean for a landing at Kennedy Space Center in Florida . The burn itself was performed with the shuttle flying tail first and white ( top ) side facing towards the Earth ( heat shield/black side facing towards space ) . The two OMS ( orbital maneuvering system ) engines were used to accomplish the required $ \ Delta v $ ( anywhere between 200 and 550 ft/sec depending on the starting altitude ) . The burn typically took around 2.5 to 3 minutes . This would lower the perigee ( lowest point in an orbit around Earth ) to within a few miles of the ground ( having a hard time finding a source , but I seem to remember it being around 30-40 miles ) , which was enough to ensure the orbital path would take them into thick atmosphere . <URL> <URL> The OMS engines are essentially larger versions of <URL> ( reaction control system ) jets . RCS jets were used for rotation ( attitude ) and small translation ( velocity in a given direction ) changes . The OMS were used for making orbital changes . Both systems burned the same <URL> mixture ( monomethylhydrazine ( MMH ) and dinitrogen tetroxide ( N2O4 ) ) . If the OMS had failed , the RCS jets could have , in theory , been used to slow the shuttle enough for reentry . Nose Flip Some answers have said that the orbiter would pitch down 140 ° for the flip . This is incorrect . After the deorbit maneuver was completed , the orbiter would pitch up about 220 ° until it reached a 40 ° nose-up angle of attack ( referred to as the " EI -5 attitude " because they must be in that attitude by at least five minutes prior to entry interface ) . They have about 20 minutes between the deorbit burn and EI-5 , so there 's plenty of time to pitch in either direction . Nose up was likely preferred because the <URL> exhaust vents point up near the tail . This naturally causes the orbiter to want to pitch up when the APUs are running . During this pitch-up , they would fire the forward RCS jets to dump all the forward fuel , unless it was required for center-of-gravity reasons . The forward RCS jets were n't used during reentry , and dumping the fuel reduces potential hazards to the astronauts . Once in position , open-loop entry guidance would begin , holding the orbiter at 0 ° roll ( wings level ) , 0 ° yaw , and 40 ° angle of attack ( alpha ) . Entry Interface NASA defines the entry-interface ( EI ) as an altitude of 400,000 feet . There 's no hard-edge to the atmosphere , but this is around the altitude where its effects start to become directly detectable . S-Turns Some answers have claimed that the shuttle used S-turns for the purpose of slowing down . This is a very common , but over-simplified and arguably inaccurate , explanation .
If ATC allows a direct-to , then yes . However , what you will file is a flight plan based on published waypoints , but not airways . So pick and choose based on great circle and trade winds and so on . Airways The en route airspace structure of the National Airspace System ( NAS ) consists of three strata . The first stratum low altitude airways in the United States can be navigated using NAVAIDs , have names that start with the letter V , and are called Victor Airways . They cover altitudes from approximately 1,200 feet above ground level ( AGL ) up to , but not including 18,000 feet above mean sea level ( MSL ) . The second stratum high altitude airways in the United States all have names that start with the letter J , and are called Jet Routes . These routes run from 18,000 feet to 45,000 feet . The third stratum allows random operations above flight level ( FL ) 450 . The altitude separating the low and high airway structure varies from county to country . For example , in Switzerland it is 19,500 feet and 25,000 feet in Egypt . ( FAA Instrument Procedures Handbook - <URL> ) And from the FAA AIM : Operations above FL 450 − Use aids not more than 200 NM apart . These aids are depicted on enroute high altitude charts . compared to Operation off established routes from 18,000 feet MSL to FL 450 − Use aids not more than 260 NM apart . These aids are depicted on enroute high altitude charts . and finally Operation above FL 450 may be conducted on a point-to-point basis . Navigational guidance is provided on an area basis utilizing those facilities depicted on the enroute high altitude charts . Special RNAV points can also be used , such as the HAR , see here : <URL> HAR <URL> up to 500 NM between waypoints . The reason for the limitation in filing a huge distance without points is the air traffic optimization . The computers are limited by how far to look ahead for conflicts is one of the reasons . I do n't have numbers at the moment but I 'm mentioning it in case you were wondering . Also because the different sectors and FIR 's prefer to have a complete leg ( s ) within their own airspace . However , they can coordinate together and shoot you direct-to the destination .
The most common case to pitch down is to speed up , not to reduce altitude , for example when transitioning from a climb ( at climb speed ) to level flight ( accelerating to cruise speed ) . You can transition to level flight by reducing thrust , but that 'll leave you level at climb speed , and is usually not what you want . Changing configuration will usually require pitching changes to maintain stable flight . In particular during the approach-to-landing , extending the flaps will substantially increase the drag , and in order to maintain airspeed , you 'll need to pitch the nose down . If you do n't , you 'll bleed off airspeed and potentially eventually stall unless you overpower the drag with thrust . There are of course unusual circumstances that will require a pitch-down as well , obstacle avoidance for example ( e.g. airplanes ) . As mentioned in the comments , to make a speedy descent you 'll probably also want to pitch down ( such as in case of pressurization problems or fire on board ) .
The FAA is responsible for safety regulations and standards , not for code of conducts or courtesy regulations for interactions between flight attendants and passengers . Flight attendants are bound to certain behaviour only by their employer and their code of conduct , additionally to any national law that prohibits insulting others or harming them otherwise .
Not significantly . The aircraft flies in the air . The air moves over the earth and takes the plane with it . Of course wind is affected by the rotation of the earth , but there is little direct effect of Earth 's rotation on the motion of the plane . The <URL> have a negligible effect on the aircraft 's track . The Inmarsat satellite used is geostationary , so it rotates as fast around the earth as the earth around its axis . The nett effect is zero .
As a plane climbs out , the cabin pressure lowers so that it equals the same pressure as being at about 5,000 feet , the altitude of Denver . What happens inside your ear is that the pressure in the middle ear reduces to match the 5,000 foot cabin pressure , and you might sometime feel your ears " pop , " just like going up in an elevator in a tall building . When the plane descends , the pressure in your middle ear will still be at 5,000 feet , but the pressure in the cabin will go down to sea level ( 0 feet ) , and you will feel this pressure on your eardrum , which can cause a lot of discomfort until the pressure equalizes . The pressure equalizes as air enters the <URL> tubes , which connect your middle ear to your nose and throat . The tube , however , is very narrow and can be blocked by inflammation or mucus due to a cold or other illness , and you wo n't be able to equalize the pressure . Flying with a cold can be very painful during descent . The amount of discomfort each passenger experiences is going to vary widely , even from flight-to-flight . For example , if the cabin altitude is 5,000 ft and the destination is Denver , then the cabin will not have to further pressurize . Some other factors are individual physiology ( some people will have bigger eustachian tubes than others ) , illness , ethnicity/gender/gift-of-gab ( some are more prone to talking than others , and talking can relieve the pressure ) , etc. . As a pilot , there are two things you can do : buy a plane with a lower cabin altitude . I recommend the Gulfstream 650 , which has a cabin pressure of 2,765 ft at an altitude of 41,000 MSL reduce the rates of your descents , which will give your ears a chance to equalize . ATC , however , <URL> , unless you are given " AT PILOTS DISCRETION . " There are a few different ways to equalize the pressure . The most effective is the <URL> , which is how some scuba divers equalize the pressure as they descend into the water . Alternatively , yawning , chewing gum , sucking on hard candy , or hyperextending your jaw may help . Little children are particularly susceptible to discomfort , and parents will give them gum or candy at the beginning of the descent .
When landing at a controlled aerodrome , air traffic control will automatically close the flightplan once the flight has safely arrived . The pilot does not have to do anything in this case . The majority of commercial flights take place at controlled aerodromes , which is probably what makes you think that pilots never close their flightplans . If landing at an uncontrolled field ( that is , one without a control tower ) , however , the pilot will either close the flightplan by contacting a nearby ATC station on the radio before landing , or via telephone after landing .
Practically speaking , the ' heavy ' designator ( ' super ' for A380 and An225 ) is to help enforce separation requirements due to wake turbulence . In case of AF1 , it is not as if other aircraft are going to be allowed near it , so the designator is redundant . Regulation wise , FAA <URL> , specifically states that the ' heavy ' designator should not be used : When in radio communications with " Air Force One " or " Air Force Two , " do not add the heavy designator to the call sign . State only the call sign " Air Force One/Two " regardless of the type aircraft .
First , AF 447 was flying into the top of a tropical storm . The air was much more humid and warmer than that of the <URL> . Next , in the absence of seed crystals or nuclei , water vapour or liquid droplets stay in the air down to <URL> without freezing . From the linked article : Droplets of supercooled water often exist in stratiform and cumulus clouds . An aircraft flying through such a cloud sees an abrupt crystallization of these droplets , which can result in the formation of ice on the aircraft 's wings or blockage of its instruments and probes , unless the aircraft is equipped with an appropriate de-icing system . Freezing rain is also caused by supercooled droplets . So it was the impact with the probe which caused the supercooled droplets to freeze .
I assume the hole has been properly deburred , otherwise you could suffer cuts on the sharp edges of the hole . What happens else depends on altitude and flight speed . At low level , the outside temperature should be tolerable and the pressure difference between inside and outside should be small , so your hand will be fine . At higher altitude , outside air temperature can drop to -60 ° C rsp . -76 ° F . Since air density is lower , the aircraft will travel fast ( approx . 250 m/s rsp . 560 Mph in case of an airliner ) , and convective cooling at the hole will soon cause hypothermia and frost bites . Also , inside pressure is 0.6 bar rsp 8.8 lb/sq-in higher than outside pressure , and the exposed skin on your palm will feel this as a sucking sensation . I further assume that you need to remove all cabin insulation to put your hand over that hole , so your whole hand will be exposed to the airplane 's metal skin which will have the same temperature as outside air . If the hand is dry and does not freeze to the metal skin , you might manage to keep it in place for a few seconds , but it will hurt . Keep it in contact with the metal skin longer and you will suffer progressive frostbite . The part of the skin which covers the hole should suffer less , since convective cooling should be less intense than the thermal conductivity of the metal skin , which will quickly pull all body heat from your hand where it touches the metal . The pressure difference will not damage your hand , but the low temperature will .
In the US you need to file a flight plan for the following flights : IFR flights Defense VFR Flights , which are required to fly in the ADIZ that is off the coast of the US ( an IFR flight plan may also be used ) . Some TFR 's only allow air traffic to fly within their boundaries if they are on an IFR or VFR flight plan . A DC FRZ flight plan is required to fly VFR in the DC FRZ . A DC SFRA flight plan is required to fly VFR in the DC SFRA . When entering or leaving the U.S. , an ICAO international flight plan ( IFR or VFR ) . Other than that , no flight plans are required , but are strongly recommended so that search and rescue gets called if you do n't show up at your destination on time !
This possibility has actually been studied and discussed ( e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) as a way to save fuel costs , but there are several issues with implementing it today : You need to schedule a number of aircraft all flying the same route at the same time for a significant amount of time If different , competing airlines should participate in one formation then they have to cooperate and be satisfied that no one is at a commercial ( dis ) advantage A lot of work would need to be done on procedures and training ( how does the formation form up , who takes the lead , how/when does the formation leader change , how are emergencies handled , what flight levels are used , what separation is required between formation and non-formation flights etc. ) Autopilots , software and other equipment would need major updates , which in turn requires re-certification All relevant regulations on separation , formation flying and so on would need to be reviewed and changed which in most countries means changing the aviation laws , and changing any law is usually a long , slow process Having said all that , you 'll notice that most of those issues are procedural , not technical . In theory it 's a viable approach , but turning that theory into reality would require a lot of work .
KTUS does n't have a <URL> , but I can think of a couple of alternatives ( other people may have more ) . First , file a composite ( VFR to IFR ) flight plan . See <URL> section 5-1-7 : Flight plans which specify VFR operation for one portion of a flight , and IFR for another portion , will be accepted by the FSS at the point of departure . If VFR flight is conducted for the first portion of the flight , pilots should report their departure time to the FSS with whom the VFR/IFR flight plan was filed ; and , subsequently , close the VFR portion and request ATC clearance from the FSS nearest the point at which change from VFR to IFR is proposed . Second , depart VFR and ask for a <URL> when you need it . But this is n't ideal if you know that you 'll be in IMC ( or in the flight levels ) at some point and you want to make sure your clearance is n't delayed . Third , depart IFR and just ask ATC for whatever handling and routing you want . If weather conditions are good and there is n't much traffic , there 's a good chance they 'll let you do what you want . Considering the terrain , though , I would n't do it unless you 're familiar with the area . And of course there 's a chance that ATC wo n't allow it anyway . Finally , although this does n't answer the question you could just fly the ODP . I 've never been to Tucson but the airport elevation is 2643 ' and right now the temperature is 32C and the altimeter setting is 30.10 , that means the density altitude is about 5000 ' . And since you 're departing to the east ( more or less ) it looks like you 'll need to get to at least 11000 ' ( IFR altitude ) because of terrain , so you have to climb 8000 ' with limited space to do it and with reduced performance because of the high DA . I do n't know what you fly , but climb performance in those conditions is n't great in many light piston aircraft - at least if they 're normally aspirated - and a climb in the hold seems like a good way to get up there safely . Of course , if you know the area well and your aircraft is up to it , then things would look different .
I 'll expand on the other answers here . Wind : The biggest factor in this is wind . Winds at common cruising altitude can sometimes reach well into the 100 Knot spectrum . Keep in mind that this can be in any direction . So lets say a long haul flight has a 100 Knot headwind half the year and a 100 Knot tail wind for the other half . That 's a 200 Knot ground speed difference which can really make an impact on flight time . ATC Holds Vary : ATC for various reasons may put a plane into a holding pattern on arrival . This may add to the time spent in the air for a given flight depending on the hold . Landing Slots : There are <URL> here in the US ( and presumably others elsewhere ) that require planed ahead landing slots . If the slot time changes but the departure time remains the same an airline may chose to slow the plane a bit ( or speed it up a bit ) to compensate . Aircraft Loading : Aircraft efficiency ( and subsequently speed ) will vary a bit with the loading of the aircraft . Since not every flight on a given route is loaded equally there may be efficiency gained or lost as a result of loading .
From Wikipedia , the free encyclopedia <URL> John Edward " Ed " Long , Jr. ( 1915 -- July 18 , 1999 ) was an American pilot who is in the Guinness Book of Records for the most flight time by a pilot : over 65,000 hours ( more than seven years and four months ) at the time of his death . He began in 1933 at the age of 17 , when he took his first and only flying lesson . In September 1989 , he broke the previous record , 52,929 hours , set by Max Conrad in 1974 . According to his brother , Ed Long 's job involved checking power lines , so " most of that was under 200 feet , in a Piper Cub " . He died in 1999 at the age of 83 . *
With a few exceptions ( modern aircraft engines with FADEC systems ) a " Check Engine " light on an aircraft would be essentially useless . In a modern car we have an Engine Control Unit which manages things like mixture and engine timing . The " Check Engine " lamp illuminates when the ECU has detected a fault that requires some sort of attention , but it 's not usually specific as to what the fault is or how urgent the problem is . In most light GA aircraft ( like the Cessna or Cirrus in your question ) the engines are straight out of the 1950s/1960s : There are no computers managing the engine for you , and the pilot is acting as the ECU . The pilot should be checking the engine 's health regularly ( by looking at the engine gauges ) and adjusting power , mixture , and propeller pitch as required . Since there is no computer supervising the operation of the engine in most light GA aircraft there 's no system to determine when the light should be on , so there is no " Check Engine " light . Note that some light aircraft do incorporate warning lights for system status information . For example , the status cluster on newer Piper Warriors : Top row : Low bus voltage , Pitot Heat off/inop , starter engaged . Middle row : Vacuum inop , Alternator inop , Oil Pressure . Bottom row : Not used on this aircraft . The information provided by these lights is more specific than simply " Check Engine " - directing the pilot 's attention to a specific system or condition . The lights are also not a substitute for regularly scanning the engine instruments and managing the powerplant , they 're merely a supplement to catch your attention between scans .
end question
start question
Is FAA approval required in order to fly an RNAV SID/STAR for a private aircraft operated under FAR Part 91 ?
The best answer I can give is generally , no . In relatively few cases -- for aircraft operated under Part 91 Subpart K , which applies to fractional ownership like Netjets -- the operator must possess an <URL> , which would be applied for at the local FSDO . I 'm not sure what that process looks like , but <URL> . For all other Part 91 operations the aircraft simply needs to be appropriately equipped .
Shoulder harnesses have been required for all aircraft manufactured since <URL> . 14 CFR 91.107 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) is pretty clear : ( 2 ) No pilot may cause to be moved on the surface , take off , or land a U.S.-registered civil aircraft ( except a free balloon that incorporates a basket or gondola , or an airship type certificated before November 2 , 1987 ) unless the pilot in command of that aircraft ensures that each person on board has been notified to fasten his or her safety belt and , if installed , his or her shoulder harness . ( 3 ) Except as provided in this paragraph , each person on board a U.S.-registered civil aircraft ( except a free balloon that incorporates a basket or gondola or an airship type certificated before November 2 , 1987 ) must occupy an approved seat or berth with a safety belt and , if installed , shoulder harness , properly secured about him or her during movement on the surface , takeoff , and landing . So what I read above can be interpreted as " if it 's installed , it 's required " . Some aircraft required an STC to retrofit the belts , you 'll need to find out if that is the case ( if it is , you ca n't remove it , but if there is no STC it could possibly be removed , a call to your local FSDO can clear that up ) . However I 've been told that if the aircraft is equipped with shoulder harnesses , then they are required to be used .
The FAA 's <URL> : Is an FAA-issued pilot certificate required to operate a civil UAS under an experimental airworthiness certificate or a grant of exemption under Section 333 ? If the aircraft is issued an airworthiness certificate , a pilot certificate is required .5 Pilot certification requirements for petitions for exemption under Section 333 are evaluated on a case-by-case basis . The footnote links to this <URL> called Airworthiness Certification of Unmanned Aircraft Systems and Optionally Piloted Aircraft , which says : b. UA PIC Certification and Ratings Requirements . ( 1 ) The PIC must hold and be in possession of , at a minimum , an FAA private pilot certificate , with either an airplane , rotorcraft , or powered-lift category ; with single - or multiengine class ratings , appropriate to the type of UA being operated . ( 2 ) The PIC must have and be in possession of a valid second-class ( or higher ) airman medical certificate issued under 14 CFR part 67 , Medical Standards and Certification . So , it looks like there are two possibilities : Your UAS has an airworthiness certificate , therefore you need a pilot 's license per the Order ( private at least , not sport or recreational ) Your UAS does n't have an airworthiness certificate , therefore your section 333 petition will be evaluated individually and the FAA will tell you if you need a license or not
The rules are as follows : Privileges and limitations A holder of a PPL may , for compensation or hire , act as a crewmember of an aircraft in connection with any business or employment if -- a. the flight is only incidental to that business or employment ; and b. the aircraft does not carry passengers or property for compensation or hire . " Compensation or hire " means income , not expenses . You can always be reimbursed for expenses such as fuels . Only income is forbidden under certain circumstances ( see below ) . Concerning getting income , you can be paid income if both of conditions ( a ) and ( b ) above true . That means your business can not be anything to do with flight . If your company is Boeing or any air-travel related business , you can not receive ANY income ( even your salary ) for piloting such a flight . The aircraft can not be used to carry paying passengers or cargo . So , basically what this means is that if you fly anybody from your company , they can pay only the expenses of the aircraft and nothing else . You can be paid your salary , only if flying is not your job in any way . As long as you have a regular job and it is fully incidental to flying , then you can fly clients and fellow employees and receive expense reimbursement only . If you are flying clients , they can not in any way be paying money for the flight other than direct expenses like fuel . The usual consequence of violating these regulations is that your license to fly can be suspended or revoked . Technically speaking , flying for hire without a license is a minor criminal offense ( see below ) , however prosecutions in the past have only been given out for egregious violations ( like working for a charter company without a commercial license ) . The way these regulations are enforced is the following : ( 1 ) If you are flying passengers or cargo for hire , and somebody rats you out , complains to the CAA , or it otherwise comes to their attention , then they will investigate and revoke your license if they determine you are flying for hire . ( 2 ) The CAA has inspectors and they may do surprise inspections of aircraft . If you start flying passengers regularly , you may get inspected . If the inspector finds you are flying a bunch of passengers with a PPL , they will closely question your passengers about what money those people are paying . If the inspector determines they are paying money other than incidental expenses to be flown , you will likely have your PPL license revoked . EXAMPLE : You are flying 3 colleagues to a business meeting . A CAA inspector directs you to park on the ramp and inspects you and finds out you have a PPL . He will then question your passengers . How much are you paying for this flight ? Colleagues answer : ( 1 ) " nothing " . You are ok . ( 2 ) " 18 pounds " . You are probably ok . ( 3 ) " 200 pounds " . You will lose your license . If he see cargo on the aircraft , then there are two possibilities : ( 1 ) He determines that the cargo is incidental to the flight and it belongs to you . ( Like scientific equipment and you are a professor flying to an archeological site ) . You are ok . ( 4 ) He sees cargo on the aircraft that does NOT belong to you ( like 8 cases of computer chips being delivered to an electronics company ) . You will lose your license because you are flying cargo for hire . Criminal Issues Note that technically , flying for hire is a minor criminal offense in the UK and can be punished with a fine up to 2500 pounds in a magistrate court . However , <URL> . In the linked news story it was found there was only a single prosecution over the course of a year , and in that case it was a pilot working for a charter company and doing many commercial passenger flights , which was a blatant violation of the rules .
A <URL> ( MOU ) is n't an aviation term or practice , it 's a general business/legal term for a ' pre-contract ' of some kind . Before two companies commit to a legally binding and perhaps very expensive contract , they 'll often prepare an MOU to make sure that everyone involved has the same understanding of what will be in the contract . That way , there should n't be any big surprises or fundamental disagreements when the real contract is prepared . In the context of aviation , that could be things like how many aircraft will be purchased and when , or what the price is anticipated to be , or anything else that both side consider important . That means that the information in an MOU could be very interesting for other parties ( " can you explain why our competitors are paying you $ 50m less per aircraft than we do ? " ) , so they 're usually confidential . Another common use for MOUs is for PR/Marketing purposes . If two companies are discussing a joint business venture they might come up with an MOU and use it to generate market interest or even raise capital ( " I know we 're a small company but we have an MOU with Boeing to jointly research alternative fuels " ) . Given that background , I do n't think it 's likely that you 'll get any specific answers to your questions . An MOU could include all the things you mentioned but only a real contract is enforceable .
In the movie Flight ( 2012 ) , Captain Whittaker ( Denzel Washington ) does not explain why he deliberately inverted his aircraft , but the obvious inference is : since the horizontal stabilizer has slipped off its jackscrew and become jammed into a descent angle beyond the authority of the elevators to correct , in inverted flight this would push the nose far above the horizon and result in either a climb or a stall . In this attitude , Whittaker would have been pulling back on the yoke to prevent the stall . In the movie , this worked . The aircraft was still not under control , but was no longer diving and overspeeding . Suddenly rolling the aircraft upright in the last seconds before contact with terrain is the unrealistic part . A hot fighter jet might accomplish this but the roll rate of a passenger jet is too slow . The movie 's flight emergency is based mostly on the crash of Alaska Airlines flight 261 on January 31 , 2000 . In that incident , the pilots experienced a jammed horizontal stabilizer with uncontrollable dive , and inverted their MD-80 to arrest their descent . Unfortunately in real life neither flying officer was stuffed to the gills with booze and coke : the maneouver failed and the aircraft crashed with no survivors .
In general yes , but depending on how close the aircraft was to completion they have to live with a different cabin and cockpit layout than what they are used to or would had ordered themselves .
There 's no singular right answer , it 's up to the individual and how he or she learns best . The biggest difference between the two you 'll find is that part 141 schools are always very structured in their training regiment . That is not to say part 61 is n't ( nor does it imply that it 's better for everyone ) , it 's just that part 61 does things according to what they wish with less FAA oversight . You might know that under part 141 , the earliest you can get your ticket is 35 hours , while part 61 requires a minimum of 40 hours . Do n't let that red herring influence you ; almost everyone takes more than 40 hours regardless of the school type .
Updating a navigation database used to be considered preventative maintenance and was required to be performed by a mechanic under Part 135 . However , the regulations were changed at the end of 2012 ( here is the <URL> ) and it no longer falls under this category so pilots are allowed to update " aeronautical databases " ( a new term ) if it is " easy " to do ( see the regulation quoted below for the exact requirements ) . There is no training requirement specified by the regulations , however there may be company specific procedures which require it . <URL> was updated , and now says ( in part ) : ( k ) Updates of databases in installed avionics meeting the conditions of this paragraph are not considered maintenance and may be performed by pilots provided : ( 1 ) The database upload is : ( i ) Initiated from the flight deck ; ( ii ) Performed without disassembling the avionics unit ; and ( iii ) Performed without the use of tools and/or special equipment . ( 2 ) The pilot must comply with the certificate holder 's procedures or the manufacturer 's instructions . ( 3 ) The holder of operating certificates must make available written procedures consistent with manufacturer 's instructions to the pilot that describe how to : ( i ) Perform the database update ; and ( ii ) Determine the status of the data upload .
A good engineer will first check existing designs : How much power is installed in comparable designs ? Use airplanes of similar speed and built quality , such as the <URL> which needs 50 to 60 hp . Cruise speed is 90 knots and the MTOW is 450 kg . Next , try to estimate the minimum wing area . Starting from the <URL> ( = 18 m/s ) , and assuming a maximum lift coefficient with flaps down of 1.6 , the area to support 340 kg at sea level is $ $ S = \ frac { 2 \ cdot m \ cdot g } { \ rho \ cdot c_L \ cdot v ^ 2 } = \ frac { 2 \ cdot 340 \ cdot 9.81 } { 1.225 \ cdot 1.6 \ cdot 18 ^ 2 } = 10.5 m ^ 2 $ $ Now calculate the drag coefficient in cruise , using the <URL> . First , establish the <URL> : $ $ c _ { L _ { opt } } = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot AR } $ $ The total drag coefficient at this point is simply twice the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ , so a low drag design is important . Still , with a fixed gear your zero-lift drag coefficient will hardly be lower than 0.035 , so your cruise lift coefficient is 0.938 ( assuming an aspect ratio $ AR$ of 10 and an Oswald factor $ \ epsilon $ of 0.8 ) , resulting in a flight speed of just 23.51 m/s = 45.7 kts . Total drag at this point is $ $ D _ { min } = 2 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } = 249 N$ $ To sustain flight at this point only requires $ P = v \ cdot D$ = 5.85 kW , and assuming a prop efficiency of 0.75 , the installed power should be 7.8 kW . But you want to fly faster , so we need the drag at 100 kts ( = 51.4 m/s ) : $ $ D = \ left ( c _ { D0 } + \ frac { c_L ^ 2 } { \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot AR } \ right ) \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } $ $ There , your lift coefficient is only 0.196 but the dynamic pressure rises to 1,621 N/mm ² . Since the Reynolds number is higher , your zero-lift drag could drop to 0.031 , resulting in a drag force of 550 N . At that speed , the required power is 28.3 kW . Under the heroic assumption that your prop will still be 75 % efficient at that speed , the installed power needs to be 37.8 kW or 50.65 hp . If you " only " want to achieve a TAS of 100 kt at altitude , here is what you need to do in the case of cruise at 10,000 ft ( = 3048 m ) . First you need the density at that altitude , which is <URL> . This means that the dynamic pressure is 1,191 N/mm ² and the lift coefficient 0.267 , resulting in a drag force of 419 N . This needs a continuous power of 21.56 kW to overcome . Now I assume the 75 % efficient propeller again and that you run the engine at 75 % of max . power , so the installed power in 10,000 ft should be at least 38.3 kW or 51.4 hp . Assuming a normally aspirated engine , this would translate to a rated power of 70 hp at sea level . Considering that similar designs require similar power , this looks about right . Normally , you now need to compute the climb speed with the excess power of 35.15 kW to check how usable this design is , but at 10.5 m/s I doubt this will be not enough . If you manage to include a retractable gear with your limited mass budget , the zero-lift drag might be as low as 0.024 . Now the drag force in cruise at 10,000 ft will be only 324.4 N and the installed rated power at sea level only 40.4 kw or 54 hp . With piston aircraft , your power needs increase with the cube of airspeed . I leave it as an exercise to you to calculate how much more power the last 10 knots require : Repeat the calculation with only 90 kt cruise and your rated engine power can be as low as 51 hp with a fixed gear .
Is the aircraft also equipped with trim tabs ? From the images available online ( this is a youtube screenshot , click it to see the larger version ) , no . And see point 3 on why I was not expecting any different . <URL> If an aircraft has both trim tabs and movable stabilizer I do not see the need of such a solution , a trimmable stabilizer is already optimal , adding trim tabs would increase the complexity of the system with no significant benefits , as the use of tabs increases drag , something that a THS does not . I do not know of any aircraft that uses both THS and tabs , but , should one exist , I presume one would use the tabs only if significantly faster than the THS actuation system , allowing the aircraft to be trimmed more rapidly , but afterwards the THS would take care of the trim allowing the tabs to go back to neutral and reducing drag . This solution would be hardly beneficial , since commercial aircraft ( as the one that prompted your question ) do not preform manoeuvers that require such fast ( and eventually frequent ) re-trimming . In addition , as GHB has pointed out in the comments , the elevator is already able to take care of fast transients , the trim tab would only provide unneeded complications ( in the design , the maintenance , the control ) .
FAR 91.3 states that any pilot in command may deviate from any regulation or rules to the extent needed to deal with the emergency . That includes entering restricted or prohibited airspace . In the example that you suggested , yes you could do so and land at the Groom Lake flight test facility at KXTA , provided you could reach their controllers or contact Nellis Approach Control declaring an emergency . I will say that if you do enter R-4808 N and land there , do n't expect them to roll out the welcome mat . You will be immediately met by USAF Military Police who will arrest you , most likely at gunpoint , and spend several hours , if not days , there or outside the compound being extensively questioned by Air Force Security personnel , the FBI and Homeland Security . Your aircraft will be impounded and inspected , possible indefinitely , and search warrants issued for your property . If they find out that you faked an emergency to enter that compound , you are in very serious trouble and face a variety of federal charges including trespass upon a classified installation and whatever else the DoJ can throw at you . In addition , you would need a very , very good reason to even be anywhere near Area 51 , as it is in the middle of a military reservation geographically the size of the nation of Switzerland in the middle of south central Nevada . There are no published routes over the airspace and all commercial and civilian traffic is kept far , far away . Details about the airfield are not published on government aeronautical charts or regional A/FDs . See the VFR sectionals and enroute charts below . <URL> <URL> While Area 51 is a pretty extreme example , people have had emergencies and landed in military or other restricted facilities . The usual response from the authorities is to detain and question you to determine what happened and inspect the aircraft to verify your story . If it 's a legitimate emergency , no harm is done and they will release you and the aircraft ; the NTSB will file and incident report and that 's it .
This question was answered in an earlier ( 2013 ) message . Generally , if you are ferrying an airplane and are compensated as a commercial pilot , are not carrying passengers or cargo for hire , you are operating under Part 91 of the US federal aviation regulations . That you are a paid ferry pilot is not relevant . See 19 CFR 122.1 ( d ) A " commercial aircraft " is any aircraft transporting passengers or cargo for money or other consideration . As you are not transporting passengers or cargo ( both of which would be covered under the commercial operator rules ) or you have a passenger as a friend or the aircraft owner who does not pay for passage , you are ferrying an aircraft which is covered as a private flight . Make absolutely certain you understand how the US eAPIS system applies to you as a foreign national bringing the aircraft into the US , and you have appropriate documentation and the owner is prepared to jump through whatever hoops Customs needs to get the aircraft ashore . The US Customs Guide for Private Flyers is a useful reference . Simon , I disagree with your understanding . There are many operations which are not commercial , with paid pilots . An example of this is a corporation owns an airplane which requires a pilot . The corporation can hire a pilot to fly its airplane and carry its parts/executives/employees / friends . While the pilot must carry a commercial certificate and carry at least a Class II medical certificate , the flight is not considered a commercial flight , nor is the the company considered a commercial operator since it does not hold out its aircraft for hire , unless its in the air carriage business . If on the other hand that same aircraft owner decided to carry the company next door 's freight and executives and charge them for it , that changes the story .
I 'm not sure if you 're asking about general export regulations , in which case <URL> is useful , or the more specific licensing question . But regarding licensing it 's clear that you may not fly a US aircraft from the US to Brazil with only a Brazilian license . <URL> says : ( a ) Required pilot certificate for operating a civil aircraft of the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of the United States , unless that person : ( 1 ) Has in the person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate or authorization -- ( i ) A pilot certificate issued under this part and in accordance with § 61.19 ; ( ii ) A special purpose pilot authorization issued under § 61.77 ; ( iii ) A temporary certificate issued under § 61.17 ; ( iv ) A document conveying temporary authority to exercise certificate privileges issued by the Airmen Certification Branch under § 61.29 ( e ) ; or ( v ) When operating an aircraft within a foreign country , a pilot license issued by that country may be used . In other words , you can use your Brazilian license to fly a US aircraft in Brazil ( see 61.3 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( v ) above ) but otherwise you need a US license or a special authorization ( <URL> covers leasing and commercial operations so it almost certainly wo n't apply to you ) . I know very little about this , but at least in theory it looks like your options are : Get a US license yourself , perhaps a foreign-based license based on your Brazilian one ( see <URL> ) Get some special permission from the FAA Pay a <URL> company to fly or transport the aircraft to Brazil Register the aircraft as Brazilian before it leaves the US ( this may not even be possible ) And those are only the FAA/aviation issues , you have to think about customs and general import/export regulations too , both in the US and Brazil . I would look for some specialized help with this .
This answer assumes that the question is in the context of the FAA 's jurisdiction . The red , green and white lights are position lights . They are required from sunset to sunrise by <URL> . ( a ) During the period from sunset to sunrise ( or , in Alaska , during the period a prominent unlighted object can not be seen from a distance of 3 statute miles or the sun is more than 6 degrees below the horizon ) -- ... ( 1 ) Operate an aircraft unless it has lighted position lights ; A solid red or solid white light on the underbelly does n't correspond to a configuration that I am familiar with and does n't meet the legal requirements . I have , however , seen some older varieties of rotating beacons that if broken may become a solid red light mounted on the underbelly . Some older models actually have a motor that actuates rotation . If one had a failed motor it could appear as a solid red light . The strobes are anticollision lights . The answer is also in <URL> . If anticollision lights are installed , they must be used unless the pilot turns them off in the interest of safety . The most common reason for this is if the aircraft is flying in the clouds and the diffuse strobing lights are a distraction or cause of disorientation such as <URL> . ( a ) During the period from sunset to sunrise ( or , in Alaska , during the period a prominent unlighted object can not be seen from a distance of 3 statute miles or the sun is more than 6 degrees below the horizon ) -- ... ( b ) Operate an aircraft that is equipped with an anticollision light system , unless it has lighted anticollision lights . However , the anticollision lights need not be lighted when the pilot-in-command determines that , because of operating conditions , it would be in the interest of safety to turn the lights off . <URL> is also relevant . Parts of it deal with the FAA requirements for both position and anticollision light systems . It states that aircraft may not be operated without position lights . It also states that aircraft may not be operated without anticollision lights installed with some exceptions . There are some provisions by which a flight may be conducted legally with broken lights so that it may be repaired . One such provision is also found in <URL> . ( 11 ) For small civil airplanes certificated after March 11 , 1996 , in accordance with part 23 of this chapter , an approved aviation red or aviation white anticollision light system . In the event of failure of any light of the anticollision light system , operation of the aircraft may continue to a location where repairs or replacement can be made . If you 're really interested , and I mean really really interested , the FAA released <URL> which contains a lot of technical data on exactly how these lights are to be built in terms of intensity , color and position . Delving into this document should be reserved for the truly bored and those who manufacture aircraft lighting .
The FAA says ( per 14 CFR 91.185 ) : If the clearance limit is not a fix from which an approach begins , leave the clearance limit at the expect-further-clearance time if one has been received , or if none has been received , upon arrival over the clearance limit , and proceed to a fix from which an approach begins and commence descent or descent and approach as close as possible to the estimated time of arrival as calculated from the filed or amended ( with ATC ) estimated time en route . This seems to answer your question unless you have a more specific one . You can descend to an IAF as you see fit and commence any approach . ATC will clear the way .
EASA itself does not require a RT license ( RT is usually legislated on national level ) , however , it gives the state issuing your license the possibility to include RT privileges as part of your license ( item XIII in the license ) . This is also the most common case , ie , your PPL will most likely include RT privileges , so you will not need an RT license in addition to this . What EASA state are you planning to have your PPL issued in ?
<URL> ( <URL> ) That was the case on <URL> ( but not quite ) . It was luck the manual gravity-extension did n't lock the nose gear in position . That has been attributed to the shortening of the landing roll/slide . Two factors helped avert a potential disaster : the failure of the front landing gear to lock into position during the gravity drop , and the presence of a guardrail that had been installed along the centre of the decommissioned runway to facilitate its use as a racetrack . However , no commercial aircraft is certified for it , because it can do more harm than good . And depending on the aircraft type , separate controls for each landing gear in manual-extension mode may not exist . A hard landing without the nose-landing gear may rupture the fuselage , center fuel tank , or hydraulic lines . And with the added sparks from the sliding , that 's a recipe for disaster . Instead , a system such as the <URL> ( EMAS ) may help : <URL> ( <URL> ) EMAS .
For many medium and large sized jets the maximum gross takeoff weight is higher than the maximum landing weight . If the airplane has an emergency that requires an air return or other landing in the early part of flight , it is very likely overweight for landing . The plane has 3 options at this point : Land overweight Dump fuel ( if able ) Fly around at low altitude and high power to burn fuel For some airplanes , option 2 is not available . This includes airplanes that are not equipped to dump fuel ( not all airplanes have this capability or have the capability under MEL ) or are not approved to dump fuel at their current location and altitude . For these airplanes , only option 1 and 3 are available . The choice between option 1 and 2/3 comes down to what kind of emergency it is . If you have to be on the ground now , you wo n't care about being overweight , and will just put it down . If you have time and landing now is n't a priority , then you would choose to dump or burn fuel . If an airplane chooses to dump , they will generally choose one of two values of remaining fuel : fuel such that they land at the maximum landing weight absolute minimum safe fuel to land This choice comes down to how likely the landing will end in an accident . If you are sure the landing will be a non-event ( e.g. air return for anti-ice failure ) then you 'll likely just dump until landing wont be overweight . Conversely , if you have a control issue or something that may end badly , you want minimum fuel to lessen the potential for fire . In these cases the ARFF crew will spray the runway with foam to assist in reducing the fire potential .
Like @mongo , I am not aware of a regulation and do n't recall seeing anything about it in the AIM . However , the Airplane Flying Handbook ( FAA-H-8083-3B ) says this about engine start : Prior to engine start , the pilot must ensure that the ramp area surrounding the airplane is clear of persons , equipment , and other hazards from coming into contact with the airplane or the propeller . Also , an awareness of what is behind the airplane prior to engine start is standard practice . A propeller or other engine thrust can produce substantial velocities , result in damage to property , and injure those on the ground . The hazard of debris being blown into persons or property must be mitigated by the pilot . At all times before engine start , the anti-collision lights should be turned on . For night operations , the position ( navigation ) lights should also be on . Finally , just prior to starter engagement , the pilot should always call " CLEAR " out of the side window and wait for a response from anyone who may be nearby before engaging the starter .
end question
start question
Can I get a photo with the pilots ?
I do n't know about the situation specifically in the US , but in my - mostly European - experience crew are happy to welcome you to their office after flight . When I feel the need to see the cockpit or discuss things with the pilots I try to ask the flightcrew before take-off if I can meet them after the flight . Sometimes I explain my interests to the cabin crew and often they will arrange the visit . In a few cases I just asked while deboarding . Depending on the aircraft type and airport situation you have to think about the logistics a bit . In single aisle aircraft , if you start a discussion with crew while deboarding , you are blocking the queue . This gives the feeling that it is an inconvenient moment and reduces your chances . So if you ask at the last possible moment , make sure most people already exited before you . However , if passengers are transported to the terminal by bus , you will be holding the bus since you are the last to get off . This reduces the time you can spend in cockpit drastically . If you expect to be bussed to the terminal , ask cabin crew before the descent and do n't wait until everybody has exited .
It 's not web based , but you can use Google Earth for this -- <URL> , and you can do all your flight planning by entering routes in Google Earth . Then just turn off the sectional and you 'll have the Google Earth satellite imagery to work with . As an added bonus ( relating to your comment about mainly using an Android tabled ) : Google Earth <URL> ( and the plugin version of the chart overlay should work in the tablet app -- I know it works in the <URL> ) BIG SCARY IMPORTANT DISCLAIMER As the folks who publish that collection of charts will tell you , the charts are not always current and thus should not be used for navigational purposes ( much like SkyVector ) . You can of course replace the chart graphics with current ones ( or locate a chart collection that is current ) if you want to , but as you 're only using this as a pre-flight planning aid and will be doing your real flight planning with current charts and data the ones provided in the Google Earth Library are probably " good enough " for your purposes .
According to <URL> : F. Color Vision Correcting Lens ( e.g. X-Chrom ) Such lenses are unacceptable to the FAA as a means for correcting a pilot 's color vision deficiencies . However , you have the option of taking other <URL> . It would be better to talk with your physician or the medical examiner about this .
In Canada , you are required to have 40 hours of ground school instruction . See <URL> : completed a minimum of 40 hours private pilot aeroplane ground school instruction on the following subjects ... Ground school instruction is defined as ( <URL> ) : classroom-type instruction generally given to one or more persons and covering an organized program of lectures , homework or self-paced study that adheres to an approved training program . So , you can learn by self-study , but it needs to be an approved training program . This would mean that a flight instructor would need to sign off on the self-study program . <URL> : If you are unable to attend a ground school , the self-study method can be satisfactory , provided you obtain the proper study materials and devote a reasonable amount of time to study . The regulation is at <URL> : Received an endorsement , if required by this part , from an authorized instructor certifying that the applicant accomplished the appropriate ground-training or a home-study course required by this part for the certificate or rating sought and is prepared for the knowledge test ... Because in both cases an instructor must sign off on your preparedness for the examination , and passing the examination demonstrates that you meet the standard , in my opinion , the only thing that would make self-study a bad idea is if self-study is not an effective learning method for you , which could delay your training .
The <URL> publishes a <URL> that includes seaplane facilities and flight planning maps for cross countries . This lists facilities that offer seaplane rental 's . There is a discounted price on the directory for SPA members .
Yes . Human beings can get sucked into jet engines if they are close enough - this has happened multiple times in a number of aircraft ranging from <URL> to <URL> . However , it happens only in rare cases - usually in case of miscommunication or a mistake , when <URL> . The following image shows the safety hazard area for aircraft engines . <URL> A warning poster , available from Boeing , reminds ramp and maintenance workers about the dangers of engine ingestion ; image from <URL> In addition , the engines also have hazard-area warning decals on the nacelles to warn the ground personnel of the dangers . <URL> Warning signs on engines ; image from <URL> . As for the maximum weight that can be ingested , it will vary with the engines , though they have been known to ingest items from <URL> to <URL> , and of course people .
Generally there are two ways to get an interpretation of regulations from the FAA . The first ( less-formal ) way would be to call or email your <URL> with your question -- they will usually get back to you pretty quickly with a verbal opinion or an email ( on the two occasions I 've contacted the local FSDO I 've gotten an answer within 1-2 days ) . Interpretations from your local FSDO are essentially valid within their coverage area ( if you get an opinion from Farmingdale in New York the folks in Los Angeles , California may not honor it ) . The second ( very formal ) way is to write an actual on-paper letter to the FAA 's office of the chief counsel requesting a legal interpretation of some specific regulation ( s ) and <URL> : This request should be as specific as you can make it , for example : May the FAA hold a person who performs maintenance on an aircraft responsible for the proper performance of that maintenance under 43.13 ( a ) and ( b ) when that person was not the person who made the maintenance record entry required by 43.9 ? If your request is inspired by some ongoing action ( say a warning letter ) you should reference it and include a copy to help speed things along . The FAA 's legal staff will chew on the request for a while , and eventually produce <URL> ( the linked interpretation , which answers the example question above , took about 5 months , and it is a relatively simple interpretation - The more complex the regulation that needs to be interpreted the longer it will probably take ) . Counsel interpretations are organization-wide precedent , and <URL> . They are effective " The Final Word " on how regulations are to be applied ( unless overturned in court ) .
No , you can not - at least not with the default masks . In principle , the oxygen systems on board can all provide at least 15 mins . of oxygen , in some of the worst conditions ( indeed , that 's what they 're designed to do ) . However , their sole purpose is to make high altitude air breathable . The key principle here is partial pressure . Basically , the partial pressure of a gas is the fraction of a certain gas in a gas mixture times the ambient pressure . Since normal air consists of about 21 % oxygen , the partial pressure of oxygen at sea level is 0.21 atm ( atmosphere ) . If the partial pressure of oxygen is too low , your lungs actually lose oxygen to the atmosphere when you breathe - much like a deflating balloon . When the cabin pressure drops , the partial pressure of oxygen drops proportionally . In that case , oxygen masks are provided . They do not raise the pressure of the air you breathe in , but raise the partial pressure of oxygen by filling your mask with oxygen . If the cabin pressure would drop to 0.2 atm , and you would be given 100 % oxygen , the partial pressure of oxygen would be 0.2 atm , which is about the same as at sea level - perfectly survivable . The mask as such does not need to be airtight - it just needs to make sure that there 's enough oxygen flowing into your mask to displace all the useless nitrogen in the air . Indeed , the mask you will see on airplanes are generally flimsy , plastic masks . Under water , these masks are not sufficient at all . They will probably turn into a frothy , bubbly mess of a water/oxygen mixture , especially when the aircraft is filling up with water , due to strong currents . So , you would have to wait for the currents to diminish , and then hold your oxygen mask in such a way that no water will enter it - this probably means you will have to face upwards all the time . Of course , you can get creative ( pull the mask of and breathe from the tube ) , or luck out with a high quality mask that happens to work underwater . But I 'm afraid that as soon as your plane is sinking , it 's too late to play the hero , and your best bet would be to get out and at least save your own life .
I find climbing into the aircraft a good first step ;) Sorry , could n't resist ! The best way to start is to find and visit a local airfield near where you live . Most local airfields have some level of training taking place , and if the closest to you does not then another , perhaps slightly farther afield , will do . Visit one of these flying schools and ask to speak to an instructor , a CFI , or an examiner . They will give you more details such as the aircraft they fly , the typical syllabus and the expected costs . From there , you might like to start with a " trial flight " - typically 30-45 minute flight where you get to take controls and get a feel for piloting an aircraft . Good luck .
I 'm assuming you 're asking about the US , since you mentioned sport/recreational licenses . You can take as long as you like to learn to fly , although spreading it out over multiple years will actually cost more , not less . The reason is that you forget things and take a lot longer to develop the right reactions , muscle memory and feel for the aircraft . So try to fly as much as possible and do your license as <URL> , within whatever time and budget limits you have ; I know that not everyone has the time and <URL> to learn to fly in one month or even one year . As for a ground school course , they 're often planned to end with you taking the <URL> required for private pilots and that test might even be included in the price . When you take the test it 's valid for two years . If you do n't pass your final checkride within those two years then you 'll have to do the knowledge test again first . But that does n't mean you have to do a ground school course again , you can work with an instructor and by yourself to refresh your knowledge . But if you 're not sure about how/when to start training then the best thing you can do is talk to an <URL> about your situation and expectations . Any good flight school will be happy to have someone sit down with you and answer whatever questions you have . An <URL> would be a great way to start , if you have n't already done that .
I 'm not an expert in 3D geometry , so I 'll only explain the methods detailed in : <URL> . Two DME ranges and aircraft altitude When the slant distance has been determined using a DME station , the aircraft is on a sphere centered on the station . By interrogating two stations , two intersecting spheres are determined . If the aircraft is located on the line between the two stations ( the baseline ) , then the intersection is a single point , else the intersection is a circle ( pink in the figure below ) . <URL> Taking into account altitude , only two points of the circle ( green in the figure below ) correspond to a possible aircraft location . Ambiguity One of these points is the true position , the other is the " ambiguity " , symmetrical to the true position relative to the baseline ( gray ) . The ambiguity will appear in the method when using $ arcsin $ function , which will give two angles for the same value . There are multiple possibility to eliminate the ambiguity : Monitor the progress of the aircraft and keep the point which motion matches the heading . For example on the top view , if the aircraft flies north , the top point moves north while the bottom point moves south . The latter is indeed a wrong position . A predictive <URL> can detect such anomaly . Use a third DME : The third DME matches a single point . DME accuracy must be taken into account , and the best result will be obtained when the third DME is abeam the aircraft position , between the two first DME stations . Such position maximizes the difference between the two possibilities . Use a VOR collocated with one of the DME . Position determination : Overview of the method The problem of DME/DME/Elevation location boils down to : <URL> Two DME stations U and S : latitudes , longitudes and altitudes are known ( $ \ small L_U , \ lambda_U , h_U $ and $ \ small L_S , \ lambda_S , h_S $ ) Aircraft A : altitude is known ( $ \ small h_A $ ) The slant distances are measured ( $ \ small d _ { UA } $ and $ \ small d _ { SA } $ ) C is Earth center ( Earth radius is $ \ small R_e $ , and P the ground projection of the aircraft position . The manual suggests these steps : Step 0 : Convert slant-ranges to spherical-ranges/geocentric angle Step 1 : Solve the navigation spherical triangle for the two stations Step 2 : Determine if the problem is well-posed Step 3 : Solve the mathematical spherical triangle USA Step 4 : Find the coordinates/path azimuths for aircraft A Step 0 : Convert slant-ranges to spherical-ranges/geocentric angle We know the altitudes and the slant ranges : It is possible to calculate two geocentric angles $ \ theta _ { SA } $ ( SCA ) and $ \ theta _ { UA } $ ( UCA ) . For each DME $ x $ : $ $ \ theta _ { xA } = arcsin \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ sqrt { \ frac { ( d _ { xA } - h_A + h_x ) ( d _ { xA } + h_A-h_x ) } { ( R_e + h_x ) ( R_e + h_A ) } } \ right ) $ $ Step 1 : Solve the navigation spherical triangle for the two stations We now need to calculate the geocentric angle $ \ theta _ { US } $ between DME stations : $ $ sin ( \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ theta _ { US } ) = \ sqrt { sin ^ 2 \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { 2 } ( L_S-L_U ) \ right ) + cos ( L_S ) cos ( L_U ) sin ^ 2 \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { 2 } ( \ lambda_S - \ lambda_U ) \ right ) } $ $ where $ \ small L_U $ and $ \ small L_S $ are latitudes of U and S and $ \ small \ lambda_U $ and $ \ small \ lambda_S $ are longitudes of U and S. ( You get $ \ small \ theta $ using $ \ small arcsin $ . ) The method also provides equations for the determination of the azimuth at the extremities of the baseline between U and S , let 's calculate one : $ $ tan ( \ psi _ { S/U } ) = \ frac { cos ( L_S ) sin ( \ lambda_S - \ lambda_U ) } { sin ( L_S ) cos ( L_U ) - cos ( L_S ) sin ( L_U ) cos ( \ lambda_S - \ lambda_U ) } $ $ ( You get $ \ small \ psi _ { S/U } $ using $ \ small arctan $ . ) Step 2 : Determine if the problem is well-posed This step check wether the ranges are meaningful , i.e. the two DME range spheres intersect . If they do n't ( and this should never happen ) , there is no solution . The DME spheres are depicted by the geocentric angles $ \ small \ theta _ { UA } $ and $ \ small \ theta _ { SA } $ : If $ \ small \ theta _ { UA } + \ small \ theta _ { SA } < \ small \ theta _ { US } $ , then the spheres do n't intersect ( too remote ) If $ \ left | \ small \ theta _ { UA } - \ small \ theta _ { SA } \ right | > \ small \ theta _ { US } $ , then spheres are concentric , they do n't intersect . Step 3 : Solve the mathematical spherical triangle USA This step allows for the determination of any angle of the triangle USA , we need only one : $ $ cos ( \ beta_U ) = \ frac { cos ( \ theta _ { SA } ) - cos ( \ theta _ { US } ) cos ( \ theta _ { UA } ) } { sin ( \ theta _ { US } ) sin ( \ theta _ { UA } ) } $ $ ( You get $ \ small \ beta_U $ using $ \ small arccos $ . ) Step 4 : Find the coordinates/path azimuths for aircraft A Azimuth angles : If A is south of US baseline : $ $ \ psi _ { A/U } = \ psi _ { S/U } + \ beta_U $ $ If A is north of US baseline : $ $ \ psi _ { A/U } = \ psi _ { S/U } - \ beta_U $ $ Aircraft latitude $ \ small L_A $ : $ $ sin ( L_A ) = sin ( L_U ) cos ( \ theta _ { UA } ) + cos ( L_U ) sin ( \ theta _ { UA } ) cos ( \ psi _ { A/U } ) $ $ ( You get $ \ small L_A $ using $ \ small arcsin $ . ) Aircraft longitude $ \ small \ lambda_A $ : $ $ tan ( \ lambda_A - \ lambda_U ) = \ frac { sin ( \ psi _ { A/U } ) sin ( \ theta _ { UA } ) } { cos ( L_U ) cos ( \ theta
ICAO has defined in their Annexes that English is only one of the available langauges to ICAO and that ATS should either use the language specified in the country 's AIP or use English . 1.2.9 Language proficiency 1.2.9.1 Aeroplane , airship , helicopter and powered-lift pilots , air traffic controllers and aeronautical station operators shall demonstrate the ability to speak and understand the language used for radiotelephony communications to the level specified in the language proficiency requirements in Appendix 1 . Note 2 . -- The provisions of 1.2.9 refer to Annex 10 , Volume II , Chapter 5 , whereby the language used for radiotelephony communications may be the language normally used by the station on the ground or English . In practice , therefore , there will be situations whereby flight crew members will only need to speak the language normally used by the station on the ground . Personally , additional to my proficiency level in English , I also hold a Level 6 language proficiency German in my pilot 's license . Below is a screenshot of the Aerodrome Description for LEBL/Barcelona , taken from Spain 's AIP . You see that ES/EN is listed as available languages . <URL> If you are looking for Spanish Phraseology , you can find it with <URL> .
As several commenters have noted , medical rules are different in each country . ICAO provides guidelines and recommendations , but it 's up to each country to actually implement them . ICAO 's personnel licensing requirements are in Annex 1 which is <URL> but their <URL> implies that transgender pilots should be considered ' higher risk ' : Applicants with disorders of behaviour ( for example regarding habit , gender identity , sexuality ) should be assessed on the basis of their ability to put aside the disorder ( or any conflicts related to the disorder ) in order to attend to the aviation task at hand . These persons may have significant conflicts with their environment , leading to further difficulties , which may become an impediment for them to hold an aviation licence . Looking at specific countries , the FAA may be an unusual case by explicitly mentioning gender identity issues . I could n't find any mention of them in the <URL> , <URL> or <URL> medical requirements . But all countries ' medical requirements include something general like this ( this example is from EASA ) : ( g ) Personality or behavioural disorder Where there is suspicion or established evidence that an applicant has a personality or behavioural disorder , the applicant should be referred for psychiatric opinion and advice . That catch-all clause would - I assume - include <URL> and therefore require psychiatric evaluation of the pilot . And in cases where a pilot has had gender reassignment surgery and/or drug treatment , the surgery and drugs regimen would almost certainly trigger additional testing and investigation ( so would any other major surgical procedure or long-term drug treatment ) . Finally , it 's worth noting that whatever the general rules are , every case is different and the only way to get a specific answer for an individual is to consult with an aviation medical examiner for that jurisdiction . ( Disclaimer : I know nothing about medicine except that it 's complicated . Consult an aviation medical specialist if you want a real answer . )
Yes . <URL> ( n ) Limitations on student pilots operating an aircraft in solo flight . A student pilot may not operate an aircraft in solo flight unless that student pilot has received : ( 1 ) An endorsement from an authorized instructor on his or her student pilot certificate for the specific make and model aircraft to be flown ; and ( 2 ) An endorsement in the student 's logbook for the specific make and model aircraft to be flown by an authorized instructor , who gave the training within the 90 days preceding the date of the flight . <URL> ( a ) Operations requiring a medical certificate . Except as provided in paragraphs ( b ) and ( c ) of this section , a person -- ... ( 3 ) Must hold at least a third-class medical certificate -- ( i ) When exercising the privileges of a private pilot certificate ; ( ii ) When exercising the privileges of a recreational pilot certificate ; ( iii ) When exercising the privileges of a student pilot certificate ; The student pilot only needs a student pilot certificate and medical when operating in solo flight . With that said , if there is any doubt that a medical certificate wo n't be granted it is a good idea to get that out of the way before spending money on flight training you will never be able to use .
You can not do so . A private pilot 's license - at least in the US - prohibits you from offering airman services for compensation or hire . If you intend to fly professionally , you will need at least a commercial pilot 's certificate . An instrument rating is also highly recommended as is multi engine class ratings for the greatest chances of employment . Air carrier operation will require you to hold an airline transport pilot 's license for part 121 operations .
The Meteorological Service of Canada ( MSC ) , the United States National Weather Service ( NWS ) and the National Meteorological Service of Mexico ( NMSM ) have a joint project called <URL> . I 've referred to it in the past to get some outlook on temperature and precipitation amounts more than a couple days in the future . From the NAEFS site : NAEFS combines state of the art ensemble forecasts , developed at the MSC and the NWS . When combined , the grand ensemble can provide weather forecast guidance for the 1-14 day period that is of higher quality than the currently available operational guidance based on either set of ensembles alone . It allows the generation of a set of forecast products that are seamless across the national boundaries between Canada , the United States and Mexico .
Basic flying rules require the pilot to be able , at any time : to maintain the aircraft safe attitude , to avoid other aircraft and obstacles , to know where he/she is , to find their way to the landing aerodrome . Does the pilot need to see outside ? It depends ... Any of these tasks are possible with viewing the environment . A trained pilot in an aircraft with the appropriate equipment , with the appropriate support and equipment on the ground , can also perform any of these tasks without seeing anything outside the aircraft . VMC vs. IMC There is a set of minimum conditions to declare that the outside environment is visible : these conditions are known as <URL> ( VMC ) . When VMC are not achieved , the conditions are said to be IMC , for <URL> . VFR vs. IFR Any flight must be done under one of the two existing set of rules : <URL> ( VFR ) <URL> ( IFR ) . The rules to be followed are dictated by regulation and are directly dependent on the meteorological conditions . In VMC : A VFR flight is allowed . A pilot may elect to fly IFR , at convenience . In IMC : You must use IFR , but you have to be allowed to do that . The aircraft must be certified for IFR . ( For the sake of completeness , a <URL> flight may be allowed while under IMC ) . What we said so far is : a pilot may fly without visibility ( IMC ) , but to do that must be trained and allowed , must follow IFR , and the aircraft must be certified for IFR . Landing without visibility , source : <URL> . Which instruments are required to fly IFR ? Some instruments are required to allow the pilot to maintain a safe attitude of the aircraft , e.g. ( left-to-right , top-to-bottom ) <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> . <URL> Main instruments , source : <URL> Some instruments are required to allow the pilot to navigate , e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , documentation on-board . ILS principle , source : <URL> Some equipment is required to be interlocked with <URL> ( ATC ) , e.g. radio , <URL> . Typical ATC room , source : <URL> See also : <URL> Some equipment may be required to avoid collision and accidents into terrain , e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> . IFR flying aircrafts are separated by ATC , to help the pilot to avoid other aircraft . TCAS , source : <URL> Most of the commercial airliners fly under IFR , regardless of the conditions . In addition they have a <URL> . Try to fly IFR with <URL> .
I do n't know about the situation specifically in the US , but in my - mostly European - experience crew are happy to welcome you to their office after flight . When I feel the need to see the cockpit or discuss things with the pilots I try to ask the flightcrew before take-off if I can meet them after the flight . Sometimes I explain my interests to the cabin crew and often they will arrange the visit . In a few cases I just asked while deboarding . Depending on the aircraft type and airport situation you have to think about the logistics a bit . In single aisle aircraft , if you start a discussion with crew while deboarding , you are blocking the queue . This gives the feeling that it is an inconvenient moment and reduces your chances . So if you ask at the last possible moment , make sure most people already exited before you . However , if passengers are transported to the terminal by bus , you will be holding the bus since you are the last to get off . This reduces the time you can spend in cockpit drastically . If you expect to be bussed to the terminal , ask cabin crew before the descent and do n't wait until everybody has exited .
For best results , put good flaps on the wing and forget using a winglet . If you insist on bending the wing up at its end , just continue with the tip airfoil and select the incidence such that your circulation distribution over the wing and winglet will become elliptical when you plot it in a straight line . The small size of your airplane implies that you will not need to unload the tips to reduce root bending moment .
The FAA <URL> contains the guidance for Aviation Training Devices , including the BATD 's . The AC states that as long as the system has been FAA approved by the manufacturer ( and in your case you say that it " meets the FAA requirements " ) , that no specific approval is required for training conducted under 14 CFR 61 . For use under 14 CFR 141 however , you would need specific FAA approval ( see below ) . 14 CFR 61 Approval You must simply follow the conditions specified in the AC : 5 . APPROVAL OF BATD FOR USE UNDER PART 61 . To be approved for use for pilot training and certification under part 61 , a BATD should : a. Be capable of providing procedural training in all elements for which it is to be used . Those elements should be specified in an acceptable training curriculum or as specifically authorized by the FAA and meet the description and suggested criteria outlined in this appendix . b. Have the following documents available for inspection by the student and instructor : The list of ATD components as required by paragraph 3c , A copy of AFS-800 's letter of approval and authorized use of the ATD , and A copy of the QAG for the ATD being used . c. Successfully pass the start-up self-test described in paragraph 8c ( 2 ) . If the device is being used in a course of training for a pilot certificate or rating , a person authorized by the FAA to provide ground or flight instruction should observe this test . After the ATD self-test is complete , no other software of any kind may be started on the computer running the ATD software . d. Remain in the approved configuration during the training session . Authorized ATD instruction may not proceed after a malfunction of the ATD system has occurred . The operator must correct the ATD malfunction and repeat the start-up test described in paragraph c of this section before resuming authorized instruction . In addition , a BATD may be used in a training curriculum that provides for : A similar scope and content of a syllabus that is used under part 141 ; Instructional materials for flight events ; A means of showing progress , such as an outline of stage ( phase ) checks and criterion levels of performance ; and The authorized use as approved in the AFS-800 letter of approval . 14 CFR 141 Approval 141 Approval is almost the same , but must be approved by the school 's POI ( principle operations inspector ) : 6 . APPROVAL OF BATD FOR USE UNDER PART 141 . Local FSDO may approve BATDs as part of an overall part 141 curriculum approval and certification process . Pilot schools that want to use a BATD as part of their training curriculum must notify their principal operations inspector ( POI ) . The POI is responsible for approving how the BATD is to be used in the certificate holder 's part 141 curriculum . To be approved for use under part 141 , a BATD should : a. Be capable of providing training in all elements in which it will be used , as specified in the syllabus , and meet the description and suggested criteria outlined in this appendix . b. Have the following documents available for inspection by the student and instructor : The list of ATD components required in paragraph 3c , A copy of AFS-800 's letter of approval and authorized use of the ATD , and A copy of the QAG for the ATD being used . c. Successfully pass the start-up self-test described in paragraph 8c of this appendix . A person authorized by the FAA to provide ground or flight instruction should observe this test . After the ATD self-test is complete , no other software of any kind may be started on the computer running the ATD software . d. Remain in the approved configuration during the training session . Authorized ATD instruction may not proceed after a malfunction of the ATD system has occurred . The operator must correct the ATD malfunction and repeat the start-up test described in paragraph c of this section before resuming authorized instruction . e. Be used in an integrated ground and flight training curriculum which provides for : The scope and content of a curriculum in compliance with part 141 , The authorized use as approved in the AFS-800 letter of approval , Instructional materials for flight events , and An outline of stage ( phase ) checks and criterion levels of performance .
end question
start question
Can GPS be used in lieu of DME for instrument approaches ?
Yes , the details are in <URL> : 7 . Usage of Suitable RNAV Systems . Subject to the operating requirements in this AC , operators may use a suitable RNAV system in the following ways . ( 1 ) Determine aircraft position relative to or distance from a VOR ( see first note in subparagraph 7b ) , TACAN , NDB , compass locator ( see second note in subparagraph 7b ) , DME fix ; or a named fix defined by a VOR radial , TACAN course , NDB bearing , or compass locator bearing intersecting a VOR or Localizer ( LOC ) course And all fixes , procedures etc. must be loaded from the GPS database , you ca n't enter any fixes yourself based on lat/long or whatever ( section 9 ( c ) ( 1 ) ) .
Yes , it could be done . There is an <URL> as fuel tanker . Image Source : <URL> Airbus might build a A350 air re-fueler <URL> : Airbus is already offering a tanker version of the A330 , and could ( potentially ) upgrade their proposal with an A350 air-refueler . The A350 would offer a substantial increase in fuel offload from existing tankers , as well as the 767 .
In general , no , you ca n't . Public ( Governmental ) Use The FAA maintains a page on <URL> . There are a couple of ways governmental organizations ( excluding the armed forces ) can fly a UAS : It can fly in accordance with the limitations set out in <URL> , which are that the FAA will : ( C ) allow a government public safety agency to operate unmanned aircraft weighing 4.4 pounds or less , if operated -- ( i ) within the line of sight of the operator ; ( ii ) less than 400 feet above the ground ; ( iii ) during daylight conditions ; ( iv ) within Class G airspace ; and ( v ) outside of 5 statute miles from any airport , heliport , seaplane base , spaceport , or other location with aviation activities . So , obviously , that 's a no-go for Bravo . It can apply for a <URL> from the FAA , which <URL> , The FAA works with these organizations to develop conditions and limitations for UAS operations to ensure they do not jeopardize the safety of other aviation operations . The objective is to issue a COA with parameters that ensure a level of safety equivalent to manned aircraft . Usually , this entails making sure that the UAS does not operate in a populated area and that the aircraft is observed , either by someone in a manned aircraft or someone on the ground to ensure separation from other aircraft in accordance with right-of-way rules . Common public uses today include law enforcement , firefighting , border patrol , disaster relief , search and rescue , military training , and other government operational missions . So , unless you have a really convincing argument , it sounds like the FAA is very unlikely to include in your COA authorization for your UAS to enter Class B ( or get anywhere near it , for that matter . ) Civil , Non-Hobbyist Operation The FAA also maintains a page on <URL> . That page summarizes how civil UAS operations can be approved as follows : There are presently two methods of gaining FAA authorization to fly civil ( non-governmental ) UAS : <URL> -- a grant of exemption in accordance with Section 333 AND a civil Certificate of Waiver or Authorization ( COA ) ; this process may be used to perform commercial operations in low-risk , controlled environments . Instructions for filing a petition for exemption are available <URL> . Surely , operating in Class B is n't " low risk " ( though I suppose you could argue it 's " controlled , " ) so this certainly seems like a no-go . <URL> -- applicants must be able to describe how their system is designed , constructed , and manufactured , including engineering processes , software development and control , configuration management , and quality assurance procedures used , along with how and where they intend to fly . a . <URL> -- may be used for civil aircraft to perform research and development , crew training , and market surveys ; however , carrying persons or property for compensation or hire is prohibited . <URL> is used by FAA inspectors to issue experimental airworthiness certificates and special flight permits to UAS . For more information , please contact the Airworthiness Certification Service , AIR-113 , at 202-267-1575 . If the FAA determines the project does not present an unreasonable safety risk , the local FAA Manufacturing Inspection District Office will issue a Special Airworthiness Certificate in the Experimental Category with operating limitations applicable to the particular UAS . b . A UAS <URL> ( 14 CFR § 21.25 ( a ) ( 2 ) and § 21.185 ) for a special purpose or a type certificate for production of the UAS under 14 CFR § 21.25 ( a ) ( 1 ) or § 21.17 . For more information , please contact the Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office at 562-627-5200 . ( Bold emphasis is mine , italics emphasis is from the FAA . ) For UASs with a Special Airworthiness Certificate , <URL> specifies in Chapter 3 , Section 1.3 ( Flight Test and Operating Area ) that : All proposed flight test and operating areas outside of restricted airspace must be approved by the FAA . Flight test and operating areas will be coordinated with the air traffic component of AFS-80 . and that : The flight test area and operating area must be over open water , or sparsely populated areas , having light air traffic . The FAA is required to evaluate each application to determine that the proposed flight area does not exceed that which is reasonably required to accomplish the program . Certainly , Class B does n't qualify as " sparsely populated areas , having light air traffic , " so this , too , seems to be a no-go .
Oddly enough , the FARs and the AIM do not define these terms even though they use them frequently , but it is in the <URL> ( see below ) . This is one of those areas that I 've never really been given specific training on and I guess figured that I would " know it when I saw it " . The definitions kind of support that since they leave it to the discretion of the pilot : EMERGENCY - A distress or an urgency condition . DISTRESS ( MAYDAY ) - A condition of being threatened by serious and/or imminent danger and of requiring immediate assistance . URGENCY ( PAN-PAN ) - A condition of being concerned about safety and of requiring timely but not immediate assistance ; a potential distress condition . Flight Safety released a report titled <URL> which includes a quote from an official in which she says that there is a misconception among some pilots about the difference between declaring mayday and pan-pan : I have observed many cases where a mayday is given when pan-pan should be sufficient . Many pilots do not realize that this distinction is ATC 's way of prioritizing two or more aircraft with an emergency at the same time . She also included some of the most important factors to consider when deciding to declare an emergency : Is the aircraft in immediate danger ? Does the aircraft require immediate assistance ? Will the aircraft require priority handling during the approach or during any other phase of flight ? Will the aircraft need special assistance on the ground ? Does the crew need any assistance from other parties ? The most important thing though is not whether you declare exactly the right kind of emergency , but that you actually let them know when you need help . Do n't forget that you can also change your mind . If you declared an Urgency condition and decide that you need more assistance/priority , you can always " upgrade " it to a Distress , and vice-versa .
The counterweights in the original question were from a Boeing 747 rudder , so I will explain what their purpose is . John Walter 's answer covers all applications of balances and ballast well enough , so I just want to explain why control surfaces need balances . The short answer is : To bring the center of gravity on or even ahead of the elastic line of the control surface in order to limit gust loads and suppress flutter . The same is achieved for the full wing when <URL> . First consider an aileron without a balancing mass . Its elastic axis is the hinge line and its center of gravity is maybe at a third of its chord , so it sits aft of the elastic axis . Now imagine what happens when the aircraft to which this aileron is attached flies through a positive gust : The wing bends up and inertial loads will keep the aileron from moving up with the wing . However , since it is attached to the wing at the hinge , its forward edge will be pulled up , resulting in a positive aileron deflection . This adds local camber and increases local lift , so the bending motion is intensified . At some point the wing stops moving up and the stored elastic energy reverses the bending motion : The wing starts to move down , and again will the aileron lag behind , now reducing local lift and again intensifying the bending motion . Watch <URL> to see the resulting motion ( the scary stuff starts at 2:40 ) : Now you might argue that in the 747 strong hydraulic cylinders keep the aileron from moving : Right , but still there is enough elasticity in the control system to let the aileron move a few degrees , which is enough to amplify the bending motion . The glider in the movie had high-aspect ratio wings of a rather elastic material ( glassfiber-epoxy ) , so it flutters at a low speed where the energies and frequencies are low . Nevertheless , after the movie was filmed it had to be overhauled : The control fittings were almost completely worn out . Now consider the same arrangement , but with balancing mass : The aileron will either stay neutral , if its center of gravity is in the elastic line , or will even counter the bending motion if the center of gravity is ahead of the hinge line . Both peak loads and flutter risk will be reduced . More agreeable control forces are just a side effect ; the main reason is to keep the control surfaces or even the whole wing from breaking off . The mechanism is the same for the rudder , but here the elasticity comes from the long fuselage tube which will be twisted by the side loads on the vertical tail . Again , only with enough balancing mass will the self-reinforcing nature of a twisting fuselage that swings the vertical tail left and right be avoided .
According to the definition of the FAA it is a recommended procedure , so there is generally no need to follow it . OBSTACLE DEPARTURE PROCEDURE ( ODP ) - A preplanned instrument flight rule ( IFR ) departure procedure printed for pilot use in textual or graphic form to provide obstruction clearance via the least onerous route from the terminal area to the appropriate en route structure . ODPs are recommended for obstruction clearance and may be flown without ATC clearance unless an alternate departure procedure ( SID or radar vector ) has been specifically assigned by ATC . ( Source : <URL> ) According to <URL> you are responsible to ensure sufficient obstacle clearance if the airport is IFR ( of course also if the airport is VFR ) . ( f ) Civil airport takeoff minimums . This paragraph applies to persons operating an aircraft under part 121 , 125 , 129 , or 135 of this chapter . ( 1 ) Unless otherwise authorized by the FAA , no pilot may takeoff from a civil airport under IFR unless the weather conditions at time of takeoff are at or above the weather minimums for IFR takeoff prescribed for that airport under part 97 of this chapter . ( 2 ) If takeoff weather minimums are not prescribed under part 97 of this chapter for a particular airport , the following weather minimums apply to takeoffs under IFR : ( i ) For aircraft , other than helicopters , having two engines or less -- 1 statute mile visibility . ( ii ) For aircraft having more than two engines -- 1/2 statute mile visibility . ( iii ) For helicopters -- 1/2 statute mile visibility . ( 3 ) Except as provided in paragraph ( f ) ( 4 ) of this section , no pilot may takeoff under IFR from a civil airport having published obstacle departure procedures ( ODPs ) under part 97 of this chapter for the takeoff runway to be used , unless the pilot uses such ODPs . ( 4 ) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph ( f ) ( 3 ) of this section , no pilot may takeoff from an airport under IFR unless : ( i ) For part 121 and part 135 operators , the pilot uses a takeoff obstacle clearance or avoidance procedure that ensures compliance with the applicable airplane performance operating limitations requirements under part 121 , subpart I or part 135 , subpart I for takeoff at that airport ; or ( ii ) For part 129 operators , the pilot uses a takeoff obstacle clearance or avoidance procedure that ensures compliance with the airplane performance operating limitations prescribed by the State of the operator for takeoff at that airport . In this case it seems to be the easiest way to follow the ODP , but it 's not binding . <URL> correctly commented that this is not applicable for part 91 operation . That 's why I like to add a part of this <URL> , which I 've found on the AOPA website , to my answer . [ ... ] We can not assume that ATC will assign any special routing or altitude based on the ODP . They expect the pilot to fly the procedure if necessary without further clearance . FAA Order 7110.65 R , Air Traffic Control -- the controller 's handbook -- states , " If a published IFR departure is not included in an ATC clearance , compliance with such a procedure is the pilot 's prerogative . " In other words , you have to decide whether you need to follow a specific route or procedure and fly accordingly . Now , we might think this is wrong , dangerous , and dumb , but it is the way procedures are arranged . [ ... ] According to all this information ATC would expect you to follow this procedure , at least in IMC . If you like to fly it in VMC and it does not disagree with your ATC clearance you are also welcome to do so . If there is any confusion I tend to ask and clarify the situation . In most cases an ODP says that you should climb on runway heading at least until passing xxx feet before turning in a direction . I would always comply with it and if there is severe CAVOK and ATC then asks me to turn earlier , I would do it , so everyone is happy and on the safe side .
It 's the <URL> : The yaw string dates from the earliest days of aviation , and actually was the first flight instrument . Picture : <URL> <URL>
Aircraft travel in countries were pathogen bacteria or viruses are carried by insects which like to lay their eggs in stagnant water . Aircraft water systems must be designed carefully to prevent spreading diseases . On a typical airliner like the Boeing 737NG , you wo n't find any non-potable water source that would contain chemically untreated water . Equipment is fed from the potable water tank . Used water is either dumped overboard or stored . From the aircraft <URL> , the water system : <URL> and the toilet waste system : <URL> Condensation water is a by-product of many systems cooling air ( including by expanding it ) . This water is collected and drained overboard . Jet engines ( including APU ) are the main generators of water , as fuel combustion generates essentially water ( in mass ) and CO2 . It 's worth noting that at cruise altitude , moisture in atmosphere can be insufficient for humans well-being . The water extractors present in air-conditioning packs then reincorporates a part of extracted water into conditioned air .
Under the <URL> of the FAA aircraft operating in Classes A , B , and C airspace , as well as certain other specified classes of airspace within the U.S. National Airspace System are required to operate ADS-B Out avionics . This means that these aircraft can be tracked without the use of radar . These ADS-B tracks will be more accurate than radar tracks and have a higher update rate . However for reasons of integrity , continuity of service and security , radar will continue to provide coverage . Currently a lot of airspace is covered by multiple radar layers , the introduction of ADS-B allows for a reduction in redundant radar coverage . Aircraft not equipped with ADS-B ( operating outside of class A , B , or C airspace ) will be tracked using radar . The radar tracks will be broadcast on TIS-B ( Traffic Information Service - Broadcast ) so that aircraft with ADS-B In receivers detect these aircraft as well .
Assuming the question was referring to the US airport market , where indeed a big chunk of the airport fees are indeed taxes , here 's their composition according to <URL> :
Pilot 's breath is not recorded on a flight data recorder , as it is not one of <URL> . However , if a pilot is breathing abnormally , the cockpit voice recorder may easily detect that as the breathing sound is captured by the CVR . A reference to this can be found in the <URL> for Germanwings flight 4U9525 , which states : ... the only sound to come from Lubitz is the sound of him breathing , picked up by the microphone on his headphone set . ... " We could hear human breathing inside the cabin , " said Mr Robin , " and this breathing noise we heard up until the moment of final impact . That means that the co-pilot was alive . Apparently he was breathing normally , so this is not someone having a heart attack , for example .
They are ( and historically , were even more so ) two of the biggest cities in the business world ( ranked <URL> ) . That specific route has some of the highest rates of business travel and is , therefore , a fairly prestigious , famous route which is popular with fairly wealthy , prestigious people . They are also two of the most famous cities in the world , and most people know roughly where they are on a map . The fact they 're separated by an ocean which is large but was just small enough to be possible to cross safely in the early days of aviation also helped , because it gives the impression of being further than it is . For example it 's a comparable distance to London-Dubai , but that does n't " feel " as big due to being overland through Europe . Equally while many people know roughly where Dubai is nowadays , it was n't anywhere near as famous 30-80 years ago .
Like in a steam gauge cockpit , you can put adhesive INOP stickers on parts of the glass panel . <URL> , and I had to use them extensively for my instrument rating . Keep in mind , though , that glass cockpit aviation systems will detect a faulty sensor automatically , and the faulty instrument will just appear X-ed out ( like the picture on the INOP sticker ) instead of showing wrong values . But even multiple sensor source cross checks does n't keep you safe from misinterpretation . See <URL> accident for example .
Sonic booms from low flying aircraft , while loud , do n't seem to cause hearing damage , as this F-14 pilot demonstrates during a Tiger Cruise air wing demonstration . Now military fighters will sometimes make a ' show of force ' in the form of a low altitude , high speed pass against threat forces which do n't have a substantial IADS capability in order to motivate them to disperse under threat of employing ordanance on them if they continue belligerence . UPDATE : I found this story about an F-16 2-ship over Iraq on a CAS patrol mission . The pilots get a radio call from desperate SOCOM operators pinned down by enemy troops at night . The pilots can not get a IR strobe to track for bombing , so the lead Viper uses a sonic boom delivered from a dive to frighten off the combatants .
Radio frequencies in the USA are assigned by the <URL> , not the FAA . There 's no ' private ' air-to-ground frequency mentioned in the AIM but <URL> does say that the FCC has assigned 122.900 as a MULTICOM frequency for : Activities of a temporary , seasonal , emergency nature or search and rescue , as well as , airports with no tower , FSS , or UNICOM Arguably your fly-by is " temporary activity " , however the definition of MULTICOM is : A mobile service not open to public correspondence used to provide communications essential to conduct the activities being performed by or directed from private aircraft So if your fly-by is " essential " ( and safe ! ) then I guess you could use 122.9 . There are <URL> for requesting temporary air-to-ground frequencies for air shows , but that 's obviously a special case . As for legality , it seems that <URL> to use an aviation handheld radio on the ground : You may only use your hand-held aircraft VHF radio in your aircraft under the terms of your aircraft license . You are required to have a separate Ground Station license to operate your radio on the ground . But because this is more about FCC regulations than FAA ones , I suggest that you ask on <URL> ; they 'll probably know a lot more about how it all works .
The answer to this question will probably depend on the equipment involved and type of route being flown ; as asked , the question is open ended , and there are several types of operations where the answer is a definite " no " ( i.e. you do not need to adjust your route ) , while in other situations , that answer might change . If you are flying on Victor airways using VOR receivers , then the answer is certainly " no " . You are n't navigating with GPS , so you do n't care about the RAIM . If you are flying in RNP-3 or RNP-10 airspace ( i.e. the required navigation performance is 3 NM or 10 NM -- so your INS can drift that far before you need to do something different ) with an INS or multiple INS 's , then you probably do n't care about the RAIM ... your INS 's wo n't drift that far in several hours , and the RAIM should be back to acceptable limits well before then . ( Maybe there are exceptions to this ; I 'm not aware of any . ) If you are flying an approach where GPS is your primary navigation , then YES , you absolutely do need to change your plans if the RAIM fails . Break off that approach , go somewhere where the RAIM is good , use a conventional navaid for the approach , whatever the best option is for you . I 'm not aware of any enroute operations where RAIM is a factor ; what I 'm flying has dual INS 's and the FMC can update its position off of not only the GPS but also from conventional ( DME/DME , or VOR/DME ) navaids , and we do n't worry about the RAIM enroute , even when flying Q routes where GPS is required . ( Maybe that 's a hole in our OpSpec , I dunno . ) We do look at it when flying an RNAV approach .
If the ailerons could be moved in the same way on both wings , the linkage between both is broken and they would float up near their maximum negative ( trailing edge up ) deflection angle . Even a hydraulic aileron booster would not help , since here still an interlink between both ailerons exists to keep actuation forces down . Only in a fly-by-wire aircraft with fully powered aileron actuators could the control system be programmed to allow symmetric deflection . The effectivity of such a means of pitch control is very low , and only wing sweep can help to make it useable . Any pitch control input will change lift on the outer wing , and pitching up would mean a loss of lift and result in a plunging motion of the aircraft . If that happens on landing , when the pilot uses to pull the stick to raise the nose gradually , the resulting ground contact will be rather early and bumpy . Pilots of flying wings know this ; they are very careful with their pitch control during a flare . When an <URL> had crashed a couple of years ago because the pilot had forgotten to connect the elevator linkage , <URL> flew to the glider club and demonstrated how to fly the ASW-20 with flaps for pitch control alone . The downside is a much reduced speed range and a high landing speed , because you need to reduce camber in order to pitch up , but it works . Since the flap span is higher than the aileron span , I would strongly recommend to rely on the flaps for pitch control when your elevator stops working if flaps are installed . They also do not need any modification to work as pitch controls since they are rigged to move symmetrically . If the engines are mounted low or high , <URL> . This was used on several occasions to bring an airliner down <URL> . EDIT : Mike Dunlavey insists I should mention flaperons . He is right , they are possible with mechanical linkage only , but you will find them only on wings which have flaps anyway . All modern gliders with flaps will also move the ailerons in sync with the flaps . But they are the worst choice for pitch control . For one , they are on the part of the wing with the smallest chord . Their lift change will go with the smallest pitch moment change of all controls except the rudder , so it would be much better to use the flaps for pitch control . That the ailerons do move with the flaps will have little effect . Besides , well designed flaperons will have less deflection change for a given flap change so the spanwise lift distribution will stay close to the optimum . This will make them even less effective than the flaps . I choose not to mention them to make the answer concise . But I 'm afraid short answers are not appreciated anymore .
It depends on the engine . A piston engine will use avgas ( aviation gasoline ) or diesel ( or Jet-A for availability reasons ) depending on whether the engine is a diesel engine ( which can burn jet fuel ) , while a turbine engine will use jet fuel . Essentially whatever the engine is rated to burn . The fuel tank is somewhere in the fuselage near the center of the rotor . This to avoid the center of gravity shifting with the fuel level .
Sure you can ! There 's nothing wrong with shooting practice approaches if you 're not instrument rated ( in the US , at least ) as long as you do n't actually accept an IFR clearance . You would probably be better off asking approach control for practice approaches rather than tower , if you have approach available to you .
This list comes from a database query against an ARINC 424 navigation database . The data is <URL> as a raw , computer-readable data file , but it is not human readable , and querying it requires special software not accessible to the typical interested party . I have done the query for you and pasted the results . Note the database does n't distinguish between " NDB RWY XX " and " NDB OR GPS RWY XX " so the titles here may not precisely match what you see on the plate . Time permitting I 'll see if I can update the list ( and note any changes ) using the most up-to-date navigation database . This list is based on an expired ( by 2 months or so ) database . These approaches are dropping like flies .
end question
start question
Why are 737 fuselages built in Kansas ?
The Boeing 737 fuselage ( among other components ) in Wichita for a variety of reasons Before Boeing sold the Wichita portion of the Boeing Commercial Airplanes business to the Onex Corporation in 2005 , Boeing was manufacturing structures for their aircraft in Wichita . The engineering , manufacturing , supply chain , and storage resources already existed in Wichita , so it would n't make sense to try to move all of that back in house at another location . The cost to transport large components from Wichita to Renton or Everett via train is likely more economical than to manufacture and store them at the final assembly plant On a similar vein , Boeing also uses the modified 747 <URL> to transport components between suppliers and Boeing . Wichita is one of the cities that the Dreamlifter flies into , landing at McConnell Air Force Base .
Early autopilots would only control one degree of freedom . Starting with the yaw damper of the <URL> , they were a simple feedback loop involving a gyro , a single control surface and some damping circuitry . Example : A roll gyro was coupled to the ailerons and kept the wings level . Commanding a bank angle would simply shift the zero point of the gyro to a different angle , and some damping made sure that the movement was slow and did not overshoot . This , however , would neglect any cross coupling . Banking flight needs more thrust to keep altitude , but the roll autopilot would not " know " of engines or throttles , just ailerons . The same was true for analogue pitch and altitude hold systems which had a simple feedback loop with the throttle and the elevator , but no other controls . Modern digital autopilots , starting with the one in the <URL> , control all axes in parallel and use a multitude of sensors and feedback loops to control the whole aircraft in one go . This is much easier to achieve with digital control , and gives smoother responses since cross-coupling effects can be anticipated and corrected before they manifest themselves .
You need to look at turn-of-the-century early industrial age history for your answer . Factories were filled with skilled workers who could weave or smith or do some other specialty with great speed . These were not unskilled workers by modern standards , but their skills were common in those days . The efficient factories lowered prices for those products , making those skills less valuable . The workers were dependent on that factory for their livelihood , they could not easily find work outside the factory . If they grew up in that factory town , they likely had no other skills . There were few factories of their kind they could work in , and no unions or labor laws . Airline pilots are in a similar situation . While airline mechanics can quit and maintain power plants or trucks with a little training , pilots are stuck with now three major airlines and a handful of regional airlines . They have no skills that can cross over to another industry . Their unions can not strike or even hint at a job action expressing their discontent . But the airlines can outsource their jobs to cheaper pilots , and have done so with over half their pilot jobs over the past decade . Those cheaper pilots are disappearing , as the major airlines start hiring , and young people realize what the career of an airline pilot has become . This has been leading up to a pilot shortage for many years , and the efforts to stave off that shortage have resulted in fewer pilots getting trained every year . The result will certainly be a wave of much higher pay , but it wo n't change the underlying cause . The wave of young people who rush into the career when the pay skyrockets will certainly see their pay drop again , along with layoffs and working the bottom jobs , when the airlines have enough pilots and hit another down decade . Oh , and $ 17k is a little more than Skywest , Republic , American Eagle , Great Lakes , and other entry-level carriers pay their new-hires for the first several years . Sorry .
From Anne Graham 's book , <URL> : This charging mechanism uses the ' ability to pay ' principles , since airlines using larger aircraft are in a better position to pay higher charges . Some costs such as runway wear and tear do increase with weight and also larger aircraft require vortex separations , which can reduce the number of aircraft movements during a certain period . Overall , however , there is not a strong relationship between aircraft weight and airfield cost . A flat rate landing charge for all aircraft types may be more appropriate , particularly at congested airports . This is because the cost of occupying the congested runway is movement related and independent of aircraft size . Each aircraft movement will consume the same resource .
It 's for <URL> ( for <URL> ) . As the generated lift bends the wings upward , the weight of the fuel will counter that . As the plane loses weight in-flight due to burning fuel , so does the need for wing bending relief ( less weight → less lift ) , that 's why the wing tanks are the last to be used . For context , a Boeing 777-200ER can hold 29 tonnes of fuel in each wing , and each wing measures ~ 27 metres and is self-supported . Example : Let 's say in our airliner each wing tank holds 100 units ( 200 total for both tanks ) , and the center tank holds 200 units , and you have a flight that needs 200 units of fuel . Correct scenario : By filling only the wing tanks , the weight of fuel in the wings will counter the bending of the lift . Incorrect scenario : By filling only the center tank , the wings will bend a great deal ( maybe even beyond their design limit ) . This is not good , and even if it is within the design limits , the repeating [ avoidable ] stresses will shorten the <URL> . Example for order of use ( schedule ) : Our flight needs 300 units , based on the above , we will fill the wing tanks , and fill half the center tank . Correct order : By emptying the center first , we have extended the duration of the wing bending relief . Incorrect order : By emptying the wings first , we lose the wing bending relief , while the plane is still heavy . Related : <URL>
My guess is that the manual trim wheel handle ( when not motor driven ) to adjust it manually needs to be : easily accessible from the seat . generate a sufficient amount of torque by moment arm . Which leaves this as one of the few spots where it could be conveniently placed . You can find the same thing in older aircraft cockpits including the L1011 , B727 and B747-100 / 200 . The 737 design remains very unchanged from when it first flew .
For an application that were controlling a hobbyist UAV one could use something like the Google Maps API . It provides services and data that will scale as the user scrolls in and out and as the UAV transitions to different areas . It also has the advantage of having visual and road data as an option . The downside is that unless you download enough data ahead of time you must have some sort of data connection to the application . But , with the greater availability of the fast cell based data connections this is becoming less of an issue .
While there are many exceptions to east-west runways , generally speaking <URL> ( which blow from a single direction ) blow east-west rather than north-south . It happens because of Earth 's rotation generates <URL> . <URL> There are <URL> besides prevailing winds . <URL> occur near the equator and flow from either the north or south towards the equator . They curve towards the west due to the spin of the Earth . <URL> blow close to the north and south poles . They blow away from the poles and curve east to west . Hence , most of the runways are Eastish-Westish ( not exactly East-West ) .
It 's not so much that thrust reversers ( TRs ) are more unreliable than other components of the plane . However , they have a very important impact on the airplane 's performance . Hydraulics , flaps , and even engines fail regularly . But <URL> and <URL> can be backed up by redundant systems , and an airplane can still <URL> . But engineers learned from <URL> that an airplane may not be controllable if the TRs deploy in flight . So in the interest of safety , the TRs have additional precautions . The reasons for not aborting a landing after they are deployed are discussed in your first linked question . Reliability is also not the only reason for having no TRs on the A380 outboard engines , as discussed in the second linked question . So to answer your question , there is indeed a technical challenge in making the TRs reliable : they absolutely must not deploy in flight . This means many safeguards are put in place , and they are designed to fail by not deploying if there is any doubt about whether it is safe . A TR that wo n't deploy is more desirable than a TR that deploys when you do n't want it to .
Boeing designs its own airfoils for its aricraft . According to <URL> the following airfoils are used in 737 : Boeing 737-100 : Wing root - BAC 449/450/451 ; Wing tip - BAC 442 Boeing 737-200 : Wing root - BAC 449/450/451 ; Wing tip - BAC 442 Boeing 737-300 : Wing root - BAC 449/450/451 ; Wing tip - BAC 442 mod Boeing 737-400 : Wing root - BAC 449/450/451 ; Wing tip - BAC 442 mod Boeing 737-500 : Wing root - BAC 449/450/451 ; Wing tip - BAC 442 mod The 737 wings are manufactured at the Boeing plant in Renton , Washington .
98 % percent of magnets - the everyday ones - are completely harmless . I believe the concern is with super-strong <URL> , where they can be problematic . Aside from Simon 's valid point on interference to compasses : Getting stuck to things , such as other bags or the infrastructure itself , in the baggage system . Attract themselves to other packages and content , possibly damaging these . Think of hard drives and electronics . Being a nuisance and safety concern should somebody decide to open it , such as customs or security . You can get your hand crushed in the process if you open the box and the thing springs out . Be aware they do not appear to be banned - just regulated in that they have to be properly labelled and packaged for safe transport . More curiously in that list are ' First Aid Kits ' and ' Seatbelt Pretensioners ' .
<URL> The probable cause of this accident were the sudden change of weather condition and the flight crew 's failure to properly execute the published instrument approach , including the published missed approach procedure , which resulted in the aircraft impacting the terrain . <URL> According to released information this cargo aircraft overran the runway after the crew aborted the take-off above Vr after experiencing pitch control problems . The final report of this accident is not yet published but a preliminary report is available . The investigation focusses on the payload distribution which may have caused imbalance leading to the perceived control problems . <URL> The aircraft crashed on final approach in low visibility conditions ( 800 meters ) . During the initial approach the crew had requested and ILS approach ( precision approach ) to runway 02 but then changed their minds and asked for a VOR approach ( non-precision approach ) to runway 20 . During the approach , after deactivation of the autopilot , the aircraft deviated 340 meters to the left and the crew subsequently announced they were going around . Shortly afterwards the aircraft hit tree tops and impacted residential buildings . The final report is expected in October 2015 . To me it seems the probable cause is the failure of the flight crew to properly execute the published instrument approach including the published missed approach procedure which resulted in the aircraft impacting the trees and buildings . <URL> The investigation into this accident is still running , only some preliminary information has been published . Preliminary data indicates that about 36 seconds after takeoff the engine no. 2 auto-feathered , about 46 seconds subsequent to auto-feather the engine no. 1 was shut off by the crew , resulting in loss of all thrust . The aircraft subsequently descended , stalled and crashed into a river . ATR-42 , 16 August 2015 , Trigana Air Service Flight 257 This accident occurred just a couple of days ago so there are few facts known yet and no preliminary findings are published . I will not speculate about the probable cause of this accident . The common thread in the first four accidents seems to be the failure to comply with established procedures resulting in the loss of the aircraft . In two cases ( Lao Airlines Flight 301 and TransAsia Airways Flight 222 ) the flight crew flew a controllable aircraft into the ground . In the case of the Air Niugini crash improper loading of the aircraft is likely to be the cause , resulting in the aircraft being not trimmed correctly for take-off . The crash of TransAsia Airways Flight 235 is the only crash that involved an aircraft system malfunction ( engine 2 failure ) . However , the ATR-72 can fly on a single engine so the failure itself should not have been fatal . The crew then shut down the other engine ( number 1 ) which sealed the aircraft 's fate . It is too early to conclude that the crew did n't follow the correct procedures here ; for example there may have been ambiguous indications from the engine instruments that led them to believe that engine no. 1 had failed . However with the information currently available it seems that the crew did not follow the correct procedures for shutting down a failed engine . The high number of crashes involving an ATR aircraft seems not to be related to the model itself , but to the safety culture and lack of training within a number of airlines operating the aircraft .
The most important characteristic for a jet engine compressor is high mass flow rate with light weight and if possible small size . For the same size , the flow rate can be increased by operating the compressor at higher rpm . But sliding components do n't allow that . Only the axial and centrifugal compressors can achieve sufficient flow rates , so they are used . Centrifugal compressors achieve higher pressure ratio for weight , but are larger , so they were used in many early designs and now remain in small turboprops while larger engines use axial compressors for their compactness .
According to <URL> , the total length of the horizontal stabilizer on a 737-800 is 47 ft 1 in .
The only formal classification of door types that I could find is in <URL> , which specifies the emergency exit requirements for transport category aircraft . It defines Type I-IV , Type A-C , ventral and tailcone exits . The doors you usually enter and leave the aircraft through are probably type I or A : Type I . This type is a floor-level exit with a rectangular opening of not less than 24 inches wide by 48 inches high , with corner radii not greater than eight inches . Type A . This type is a floor-level exit with a rectangular opening of not less than 42 inches wide by 72 inches high , with corner radii not greater than seven inches . These definitions are quite generic , but Transport Canada has a handy list of <URL> that gives specific details ( often including the type ) for many common aircraft . It says this for the 767 main doors : B-767-200 / 300ER ( Doors 1L/R FWD , 2L/R AFT ) Note : Some models equipped with 2 additional type 1 exits L/R just forward of wing . H - 1.88 m ( 6 ft 2 in ) W - 1.07 m ( 3 ft 6 in ) ; Type A Equivalent force required to move door control handle from closed/locked position to open position ( Normal and Emergency ) : 12 kg ( 26 lbs ) . Approximate force required to open a door ( lift upward ) from unlocked to open : 18 kg ( 40lbs ) . " Counterbalance " opening design . Inward/upward opening doors . Manually operated except some models equipped with electrical ( normal operation ) opening/closing option ( FWD Entry Door ) . Unique arming/disarming mechanism ( lever , indicators ) . Release button must be depressed and held to move arming lever to " Slide Armed " mode . Yellow plastic " Emergency Use Only " ( bendable ) flag moves upward in front of Door Control Handle when slide is in armed mode . Double channel slides . Upward rotating Door Control Handle . " Uplatch " mechanism holds door in open position . Button must be depressed while door is lowered initial few inches , to release . You can see from that list that the details can vary a lot , even if the basic designs are very similar . Coming up with pros and cons for every variant would be tough ( especially for me , since I know nothing about it ! ) , but obviously some aircraft are larger than others and that will limit how much space is available for the door mechanism . There are also operational considerations : aircraft that frequently operate out of smaller airports without <URL> may need to have <URL> , which are usually built into the doors .
You have n't provided everything possible to really ascertain the issue noted , but based on what you have I 've noticed the following things : You 'll find most 737s at 240-250 KIAS passing through 10000 feet , rather than the 220 knots that you were going at ( while 220 KIAS is above minimum clean speed at normal landing weights , it 's still slower than most ) Being heavy actually makes minimum drag and max L/D speeds higher , which means that for the same speed , you 'll actually descend at less of a gradient than if you were lighter The Boeing 737-800W has a idle descent ratio of about 1:20 , which means that at 250 knots you 're only going to be descending about 1200fpm -- the 737-800 ( especially with winglets ) is a very slick bird . For your reference , you can see the distances required for an idle descent ( .78 / 280/250 ) , plus allowances for a straight-in approach :
The new <URL> is based on the <URL> family , which it will replace . Also note that 737 MAX is still under development and is scheduled to release in 2017 . Update : <URL> ( <URL> ) The first 7 is omitted and the suffix is now an M for Max , e.g. B37M for the Boeing 737 MAX 7 . Wikipedia has complete list of ICAO codes <URL> . <URL> : Search for Boeing and you will find 737 MAX in the list .
It is a mixture of factors . All else being the same : a contrail at a higher altitude will last longer ( the lower temperature slows the sublimation of the ice cristals ) a contrail formed in air with higher humidity will be bigger and last longer ( more water is being turned into ice ) If there is not enough ( relative ) humidity , the contrail will not form at all . See for example this image : Image from <URL> The contrails start forming on the east , near the clouds where you have a higher humidity , and do not form on the west , where no cloud is present and you have higher temperature/lower humidity . I 've often noticed that planes flying on more or less the same track , headed in the same direction leaves different contrails . What you observe might be airplanes flying at different altitudes and thus encountering different humidity/temperature combinations , giving birth to contrails with different histories .
I do n't think that three bladed helicopters are rare . in fact , if you see European small helicopters , most of them are three bladed : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> - its coaxial , but still . . Kamonv has mostly used three rotors for its coaxial helicopters . Most of the early small helicopters by the <URL> also had three rotors , rather than two or four . Atleast if you see the Eurocopter helicopters , you can see a pattern - they are developed from one another and trace their lineage from the <URL> , <URL> and <URL> - all of them have three rotors . In the US , most of the smaller helicopters have teetering rotors , which default to two - This has been the case from <URL> to <URL> . Here again , the UH-1s transmission system was a development of the Bell 47 . Again , if you 're in US ( or for training generally ) , you 'll be <URL> , so it appears that there are almost no three bladed helicopters ( with <URL> ) being and exception . There are advantages and disadvantages in having different number of blades . In general , <URL> . You pay for higher lift capacity , performance and ( usually ) lesser noise with mechanical complexity and lesser efficiency . In the end its a trade off . In this case , I think that this three Versus four rotors shows a clear geographical difference , which looks like the availability of engineers and their differing ( previous ) experience played a more important part than anything else .
The crash was only one of the ( albeit an important ) reason for the grounding of Concorde . Actually , the aircraft was retired around three years after the crash . The main reason was that not enough people were flying it to keep it profitable . The Concorde as a technological marvel , but it had a number of disadvantages : The aircraft was costly - The program cost over $ 3B and produced 20 aircraft , of which 14 were used in commercial service . Maintenance costs - The small number of aircraft and technological sophistication meant that the cost of spares was high and options limited . Operating costs - The Concorde consumed nearly three times per passenger fuel when compared to the Boeing 747-100 . Still , the aircraft made operational profit due to the high cost of tickets . Recession - After 9/11 attacks exacerbated the global downturn in aviation due to recession , there was an enormous drop in first class air travel , on which Concorde was dependent on . While announcing the retirement , British Airways cited commercial reasons , with passenger revenue falling steadily against a backdrop of rising maintenance costs for the aircraft .
end question
start question
What are the criteria for classifying which generation a fighter aircraft belongs to ?
The <URL> has a relatively comprehensive list on how they derive at the " generation " of the fighter . For example , here is how the Air Force classifies them : 1 : Jet propulsion : F-80 , Me 262 2 : Swept wings ; range radar ; infrared missiles : F-86 , MiG-15 3 : Supersonic , pulse radar , Beyond-visual-range missiles : Century Series , F-105 , F-4 , MiG-17 , MiG-21 4 : Pulse-doppler radar ; high maneuverability ; look-down/shoot-down missiles : F-15 , F-16 , Mirage 2000 , MiG-29 . 4 + : High agility ; sensor fusion ; reduced radar signature : Eurofighter Typhoon , Su-30 , F/A -18 E/F , Rafale 4 + + : Active electronically scanned arrays ; continued reduced signatures or " active " ( waveform canceling ) stealth technology , supercruise : Su-35 , F-15SE 5 : All-aspect stealth with internal weapons bays , extreme agility , full-sensor fusion , integrated avionics , some or full supercruise : F-22 , F-35 , 6 : extreme stealth , morphing capability , smart skins , highly networked , extremely sensitive sensors , optionally manned , directed energy weapons . Until we have a major leap in technology , it would seem we are capped off at 5th generation fighters for the moment .
It 's not just small aircraft in the US - all aircraft with US registration follow the same rules . The FAA <URL> . Basically , there are relatively few limits - you can have N + up to 5 characters , up to 2 of which can be letters ( at the end ) . Here 's what the FAA has to say : U.S. registration numbers may not exceed five characters in addition to the standard U.S. registration prefix letter N . These characters may be : One to five numbers ( N12345 ) One to four numbers followed by one letter ( N1234Z ) One to three numbers followed by two letters ( N123AZ ) To avoid confusion with the numbers one and zero , the letters I and O are not to be used . Other Requirements An N-Number may not begin with zero . You must precede the first zero in an N-Number with any number 1 through 9 . For example , N01Z is not valid . Registration numbers N1 through N99 are strictly reserved for FAA internal use . When an owner registers an aircraft , they can <URL> an N number , provided it 's not already registered .
Military aircraft rarely have any sort of keys or any sort of authentication systems , they rely on physical security measures to prevent people from getting to the airplanes in the first place , like fences , dogs , cameras , guards , and of course guns . If there were no physical barriers then you have 3 major barriers to being able to steal a fighter jet : Support : just about every military fighter aircraft has an assigned crew to prepare it for flight and help the pilot ( s ) get in it . Without this crew you 'd have to get the airplane powered up , fueled up , and then you 'd have to figure out how to get into it and get the ladder removed . There 's a lot of knowledge you 'd need to do all this , just knowing how to open the canopy is n't going to be immediately obvious Starting : starting up a fighter is n't like starting a car , you do n't hit a button and everything happens for you , there 's fuel tanks and pumps , hydraulic systems , electrical systems , and engine management . You 'd have to know where to find all of the switches , dials and levers , and the sequence in which to use them . This is n't something you 'd be able to guess , you 'd need knowledge of the particular airplane Flying : high performance jets are challenging to fly , and by flying I mean aviating , navigating , and communicating . Although modern fighters have a lot of computers to help out with this the systems require a great deal of training to use , and if you do n't know exactly what you are doing you are most likely going to dig a big hole in the ground If you know how to start and fly the airplane there 's nothing stopping you from doing it , provided you can solve the problems of prepping and getting in the airplane . In fact , it 's been done when pilots defect with their airplanes , see the comments below for some great examples .
If you mean a <URL> , then it 's easy . Airliners <URL> , so the longest range ones would typically have the longest endurance . The longest range airliners currently are the <URL> and the <URL> . The Wikipedia article <URL> may be of interest . This may or may not assist in your story , but there are two ways to increase the endurance : Fly slower , and/or Shut down one engine and increase the power of the other ( s ) 1 . Both 1 and 2 may require flying lower , and both will hurt the range . 1 Explained in the last part of <URL> , but in short it 's because jet engines have the lowest fuel flow per unit thrust when they are running at near their maximum continuous thrust setting .
You would be much better off renting the plane in the United States . It will be difficult to find a rental anywhere in the Caribbean , except maybe Puerto Rico . You may want to read Greenspun 's <URL> . It 's a little dated but has good information .
Yes it would be possible to build a fighter plane from wood , not one that can fly at Mach 3 however . There are some olden days examples of fighter planes using wood construction , here is another one from 1938 : the Fokker G. 1 . with a wooden wing . These planes do n't look like F16s , but were subject to fully aerobatic g-forces . <URL> <URL> provides an overview of knowledge of aeronautical wood construction . Wood is a light construction material , and one of the largest aircraft ever built , the Spruce Goose , was made entirely of wood . Wood also has asymmetrical strength properties : it is much stronger in line with the grain than perpendicular to it , one of the main advantages cited for composites . We could follow the same construction method as for composites : shave off thin layers of wood and embed them in resin , line up the majority of the grain in the direction of greatest stress , and use some alternate grain directions like in plywood to create sufficient strength and stiffness in all directions . If we consider the properties of aeroplane construction materials : Strength . Wood has a specific strength that is slightly lower than that of aluminium : spruce has a compression strength of 27.5 N/mm $ ^ 2 $ = 27.5 MPa , and a density of 418 kg/m $ ^ 3 $ . Compare this with untempered 7075 aluminium alloy : a tensile strength of 280 MPa and a density of 2,810 kg/m $ ^ 3 $ . Aircraft aluminium alloy is 10.2 times as strong and 6.7 times as heavy as spruce , so its specific strength is 10.2 / 6.7 = 1.52 that of spruce . But half of the wing is compression loaded , and a thicker skin made of a lighter material buckles less easily . So for wings with a high aspect ratio , part of aluminium 's weight advantage is traded in : compressed skin is dimensioned on skin thickness , not on yield strength . Heat resistance/flammability Aircraft aluminium alloys yield strength reduces as a function of temperature , as indicated in the graph below ( <URL> ) . The red line is for 2024 aluminium : at 250 ° C , the tensile strength ( = compression strength ) is halved . <URL> Compare this with the compression strength of spruce : halved at around 150 ° C ( Source : fig 5-14 of <URL> ) . There are two graph regions for different moisture contents , and that brings us to the main disadvantage of wood : the variability of a natural material , next under point 3 . <URL> But of course the main point of attention would be using a jet engine in a wooden frame . Even the G. 1 had an aluminium front engine construction . Consistency and weather resistance From <URL> ... the principal factors tending to restrict the use of wood are a not unlimited supply of the most desirable species ; a hygroscopicity that results in shrinking and swelling and changes in strength ; and a wide difference in properties with different directions of the grain . These disadvantages can be partially undone by using plywood , however this has an additional weight penalty . Wood has not been used for several decades for constructing airliners or fighters , and for a good reason . Fokker successfully built wooden monoplane aircraft in the 1920/1930s , until a high visibility <URL> brought this construction method under scrutiny . Not long after , the <URL> and the <URL> pioneered aluminium smooth skin aeroplane construction , and the industry has never looked back . So yes , a fighter can be built out of wood and would be strong enough . However it would be heavier , prone to weather influences , and cause of major headaches for integrating a jet engine into its flammable construction . It can not fly at Mach 3 : the SR-71 needed to be built out of titanium , not aluminium , due to the heat resistance required . Spruce would not stand a chance and go up in flames . There are no good reasons to not build a fighter jet from metal or nowadays composits .
According to <URL> , Air Traffic Organisation Policy , section 4-4-2 there are several requirements from both the FAA and FCC . The FAA requirements are ( paraphrased from the JO ) : Comply with FCC regulations ( remember that the FCC is responsible for radio communication technical regulations , not the FAA ) Get FAA approval " to avoid possible duplication or conflict with air − ground call signs assigned on a national basis to other aircraft operators " The FCC requirements are in <URL> ( not 87.115 as the JO says ) : ( a ) Aircraft station . Identify by one of the following means : ( 1 ) Aircraft radio station call sign . ( 2 ) The type of aircraft followed by the characters of the registration marking ( " N " number ) of the aircraft , omitting the prefix letter " N. " When communication is initiated by a ground station , an aircraft station may use the type of aircraft followed by the last three characters of the registration marking . Notwithstanding any other provision of this section , an aircraft being moved by maintenance personnel from one location in an airport to another location in that airport may be identified by a station identification consisting of the name of the company owning or operating the aircraft , followed by the word " Maintenance " and additional alphanumeric characters of the licensee 's choosing . ( 3 ) The FAA assigned radiotelephony designator of the aircraft operating organization followed by the flight identification number . ( 4 ) An aircraft identification approved by the FAA for use by aircraft stations participating in an organized flying activity of short duration . In other words , your call sign must be approved in advance by the FAA , otherwise you ca n't legally use it per FCC regulations . In reality , if you call up ATC as Little Piggy 27 you 'll either get a laugh and a " no , seriously ? " or - in the worst case - you 'll just annoy them . There are also military call signs in use but I know nothing about them . I do remember being in the pattern while an Air National Guard aircraft out of Memphis , TN was doing touch and goes using the call sign Elvis 1 . But I have no idea how that call sign was set up between the ANG and FAA .
New airliners without a buyer will be handled on a case-by-case basis . Of course manufacturers prefer to not be in such a situation , and there is no standard system for handling this . However , there are some typical ways that this is handled . One option it to <URL> . This is the same ( and pretty much only ) option that is used for aircraft without engines . This has the advantage of being easier to work in and deliver , but will of course take up valuable space . To save space at the factory , the aircraft can be moved somewhere else . <URL> , but <URL> . <URL> , <URL> . Of course the manufacturer has spent money assembling the aircraft , and it is costing money to have it sit somewhere , so they will be eager to cut their loss as much as possible . These aircraft will probably be offered at a significant discount compared to placing a new order . However , buyers may prefer to wait and receive an aircraft straight from the factory , rather than one that has been sitting in storage for a while . There may also be issues with customized options applied for an original buyer that would need to be refurbished or accepted by a new buyer . <URL> and <URL> is not unheard of and is part of the business of making aircraft . It may be that no one is willing to buy an aircraft , or the aircraft would otherwise not be economical to put in service . The aircraft may in this case be sent to a museum , as with the RJX . In a similar case , the first three 787 aircraft were not deemed economical to put into commercial service after the test program , and <URL> . The last resort would be to <URL> . This is certainly disappointing for a new aircraft , but in some cases it is the only option left to regain any value .
On light aircraft , polycarbonate windshields have been the norm . On higher speed aircraft , glass is used , particularly with heated windshields . Glass is actually a " plastic " but the polycarbonate plastics and glass have very different properties . Polycarbonate tends to be pretty shatter resistant , although I know a turkey vulture which proved otherwise ( grin ) . It really depends upon the type of aircraft and the design criteria , which include the operations , temperature , heat requirements ( ie hot windshield for de ice ) , weight considerations , EMI considerations ( coatings , etc. ) and so on . Both materials have been in sure for a long time . So what kind of aircraft are you talking about ?
In shipping there are standard international rules about which way boats should dodge each other . Are there similar rules in aviation ? Why yes , there are - in fact they 're basically similar to the maritime rules ! They 're described in <URL> ( or for US pilots , <URL> ) . Basically , for aircraft of the same type ( e.g. two airplanes ) in the air the rules are : Approaching head-on : Both aircraft alter their heading to the right . Converging : Give way to the aircraft on your right . Overtaking : Pass " well clear " to the right of the aircraft being overtaken . ( The aircraft being overtaken has the right of way . The overtaking plane maneuvers to remain clear . ) The rules for converging aircraft are more complex when the aircraft are not the same type - basically the more maneuverable aircraft gives way to the less maneuverable aircraft ( because something like a balloon ca n't really maneuver to avoid a collision ) - you can read the details in either of the links above . Also while it 's not explicitly spelled out in ICAO Annex 2 ( or at least I did n't see it ) aircraft in distress generally trump the " right of way " rules . ( This is really common sense : if an aircraft is recognizably in distress you do everything in your power to stay out of their way and help ensure a safe outcome to whatever their situation is . )
None . While a number of aircraft are certified for autoland with automatic rollout until safe taxi speed , and some can have the autopilot control rollout until the aircraft completely stops , no commercial aircraft has autopilot control of various critical parts for landing such as the flaps and the landing gear .
Apparently , it is catching on . Boeing <URL> it is unique to <URL> , probably the first one to have cameras . A feature unique to the 777-300ER and 777-300 flight deck is the Ground Maneuver Camera System ( GMCS ) , designed to assist the pilot in ground maneuvering of the 777-300 with camera views of the nose gear and main gear areas . The cameras are on the leading edge of the left and right horizontal stabilizers and the underside of the fuselage and are used during ground maneuvering . The images are displayed at the Multi-Functional Display positions in the flight deck in a three-way split format . Boeing also has patents for this : <URL> and <URL> . I am not sure if these patents prevents others to have them , because many business jets already had cameras on , and this trend is catching on even for <URL> . Airbus mentions this too for <URL> : The A340-500 and − 600 has taxi cameras to help the pilots during ground maneuvers . I guess it has <URL> , probably because of pending patents etc. . As far as the recording goes , I could not find any information .
Almost all the tests done on aircraft wings can easily be categorized in one of the areas you mentioned . The only remaining thing I can think is bending an aircraft 's wing . It is <URL> as : Many modern passenger jets can flex their wings nearly 90 degrees in a test rig . For B787 , <URL> : During the test , the wings on the 787 were flexed upward " approximately 25 feet " which equates to 150 percent of the most extreme forces the airplane is ever expected to encounter during normal operation . The test is used to demonstrate a safety margin for the design and is part of the certification process to show the airplane can withstand extreme forces . <URL> ( also <URL> ) how much force a wing can take before breaking . OP <URL> about tests for lightning effects . Lightning commonly strikes the nose , wingtips , engine cowlings , and tip of the vertical tail . Hence , wings are not the only parts of an airplane which needs to be protected against lightning . To avoid reinventing the wheel , please see the following questions : <URL> <URL>
Looks like in the <URL> as well as in the <URL> the <URL> needs one according to the minimum equipment list . In the EU -70 -01 *** Cockpit Voice Recorder ( For Combined Voice Data Recorder , refer to 31-30-01 ) And in the US -30 -01 *** Flight Data Recorder ( FDR ) System That is a 6 seat plane , you will be hard pressed to find something smaller although other similar in class aircraft may also have them . It looks like some versions of the Cirrus SR-22 include an <URL> but im not sure if that conforms to the various impact regulations for a black box .
The appropriate paragraph of Part 61 of CFR 14 is 61.63 ( emphasis mine , the ' unless ' part does not apply in your case ) : ( c ) Additional aircraft class rating . A person who applies for an additional class rating on a pilot certificate : ( 1 ) Must have a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized instructor attesting that the person was found competent in the appropriate aeronautical knowledge areas and proficient in the appropriate areas of operation . ( 2 ) Must pass the practical test . ( 3 ) Need not meet the specified training time requirements prescribed by this part that apply to the pilot certificate for the aircraft class rating sought ; unless , the person only holds a lighter-than-air category rating with a balloon class rating and is seeking an airship class rating , then that person must receive the specified training time requirements and possess the appropriate aeronautical experience . ( 4 ) Need not take an additional knowledge test , provided the applicant holds an airplane , rotorcraft , powered-lift , weight-shift-control aircraft , powered parachute , or airship rating at that pilot certificate level . So , to answer your question , no , you do not need a cross-country , you do not need any solo time in a multiengine airplane , either . All you need is a sign off from your instructor .
There are plenty of great $ 20,000 aircraft out there - the hard part is finding them . " What to look for " is an incredibly broad question , and varies substantially between different types of aircraft : You would not look for the same things on a Piper Comanche as you would on a Cessna 182 . Accordingly the first thing you want to do is find a mechanic who is an expert in the particular type of aircraft to help you check it out and do a " pre-purchase inspection " . Finding those mechanics is actually pretty easy : Look for a " type club " that supports the aircraft you 're considering and ask them for recommendations ( e.g. for a Cessna <URL> , for a Cirrus <URL> , for most Piper aircraft <URL> , for Beechcraft <URL> , etc. . Talk to folks on those forums ( and to your mechanic ) about what you , as a buyer , should be looking at before you get the mechanic involved for the more detailed inspection . There are lots of things you as a pilot ( even a student pilot ) can determine just by looking at a plane ( and/or the logbooks ) . Some key items to look at before you go see the plane : NTSB Records <URL> go to the NTSB site ( or the equivalent if you 're not in the USA ) and search for accident records . Not every accident will show up in the database , but sometimes you 'll find out that the cream puff aircraft being advertised has actually been " substantially damaged " in an accident . The NTSB database search is free and there 's no reason not to do it . Logbooks All aircraft have logs , so if possible get a copy of them before you even go to look at the plane . Read through the logs ( yes , all of them ) : You 'll find all sorts of interesting things in there , but what you 're mainly looking for is good , consistent maintenance and regular use of the aircraft . As a secondary concern you 're looking for major repairs ( or significant minor ones ) that you might want to ask your mechanic about . FAA Records You can <URL> online for a small fee . This includes registration information and any records of major repairs/alterations ( " Form 337 " ) filed for the aircraft . It is generally an " interesting subset " of the logs . This is something you 'll want to have handy when your mechanic looks at the plane , though it 's not something you need to have before you go look at it yourself . Theoretically the owner should have all the documents that this record contains as part of their records/logbooks , but in practice paperwork sometimes gets " lost " . If all that looks good it 's time to look at the plane : How is the overall condition of the aircraft ? Cosmetics can lie , so do n't be dazzled by a shiny coat of paint and a nice interior : Is the on-board paperwork ( ARROW ) all in order ? Are the tires , hoses , and other rubber components in good condition ? Is the engine bay ( relatively ) clean ? Are there any leaks , drips , or other items of concern ? Are there obvious signs of damage ( skin patches , dents , fabric tears , etc. ) ? Are there obvious signs of corrosion ( bubbles under the paint , etc. ) ? Is the paint in overall good condition ( no major chips , no cracks , no flaking ) ? Is the aircraft itself clean ? ( As much as cosmetics lie , a plane that looks like it 's been neglected probably has been ... ) Does the aircraft pass a very thorough preflight ? Go through the preflight checklist with an eye for anything abnormal -- ask yourself " Would I fly this aircraft today ? " . If the answer is no , think carefully about why . If the answer is yes it may be time to test-fly with the current owner . Does the aircraft operate correctly on the test flight ? Do the engine and propeller operate properly ? Do all the instruments and avionics function correctly ? Does the aircraft fly well ? Can you trim for hands-off straight and level flight ? If the aircraft passes all your checks it 's time to turn your mechanic loose on it - they will inspect the aircraft for problems ( major and minor ) that you as a pilot might not notice which can wind up costing you a lot of money . This pre-purchase inspection ( and the ensuing negotiation based on what the mechanic finds ) is usually the last stop before handing over your money and taking the keys .
If a door is put into armed mode , it will trigger the <URL> when the door is opened . Prior to departure ( usually before engine startup ) , all the aircraft doors are placed into the armed ( or automatic ) mode by the cabin crew . Methods of arming vary from aircraft to aircraft , but ultimately the girt bar ( a metal bar attached to the door end of the slide ) is physically attached to brackets either in or adjacent to the door sill . [ ... ] If a rapid evacuation is required and the doors are opened while " armed " , the opening of the door pulls the slide pack out of the bustle ( because the girt bar is physically attached to the aircraft floor ) This is also the reason for the famous <URL> : DOORS TO ARRIVAL AND CROSSCHECK " Flight attendants , doors to arrival and crosscheck . " Meaning : Occasionally heard as " disarm your doors and crosscheck , " and announced by the lead flight attendant or purser as a plane approaches the gate . The intent is to verify disarming of the emergency escape slides attached to the doors . When armed , a slide will automatically deploy the instant its door is opened . Disarmed , it needs to be deployed manually . On departure the slides are armed to facilitate an emergency evacuation . ( You might hear this as " doors to automatic . " ) Upon docking , they 're disarmed to keep them from billowing into the boarding tunnel or onto the apron during servicing . The orange or yellow tape is a visual indicator for ground workers or ramp agents that the doors are armed or not armed . The visual indicator can vary , it can also be built into the door lock mechanism , triggering a visual indicator externally if the door is locked and armed . In the following picture , the orange tape is not strapped over the window , which should indicate an unarmed door . In the video that this image is taken from , the flight attendant has just locked and possibly armed the door , the other flight attendant would place the orange tape over the door window during " cross-check " . ( Image Source : <URL> - Author : Exupery747 )
Today , the canopy is a multi-layer structure . In case of the F-16 , it consists of three layers : The innermost layer is 0.5 inch thick polycarbonate and drape-molded into the compound curvature shape . The center layer is 0.05 inch polyurethane to bond the inner to the outer layer . The outer layer is a 0.125 inch layer of acrylic ( PMMA ) . The canopy is bolted to a metal frame for assembly . Some canopy also use <URL> on the outer layer to fracture the material shortly before the ejection seat fires . <URL> F-16 canopy ( picture <URL> ) For less fast aircraft , a single layer of acrylic is sufficient . Funnily , the <URL> does n't even have a page in Wikipedia . They use flat PMMA sheets and drape-mold them over a mandrel . The secret of their process is the grease they put on the mandrel so the acrylic flows easily into shape .
An ATC facility probably has a method of recording any aircraft they dealt with each day which declared an emergency , via the transponder code or otherwise . One is probably safe in assuming that this information is passed along up the food chain for some sort of collection at a national level , although such an aggregated list may not be immediately available to the general public . My first guess is that a FOIA request might be able to get what you 're looking for , although if the requested scope is " every emergency aircraft at every facility in the US over the last two decades , " you may be out of luck . ( That would be a huge volume of data anyway . ) Understand a couple of things about declaring an emergency : Most are n't accompanied by actually squawking 7700 . Of the ( relatively few ) emergencies that I 've declared in a couple decades of military + civilian flying , I ca n't think of any that required us to change the transponder code -- we declared the emergency with ATC on the radio , kept our assigned squawk , and did what we needed to do . Many are n't related to the aircraft at all . I had occasion about a year ago to ask our airline safety department what the most common cause was for declared emergencies in our operation , and was told that far &amp; away , sick passengers ( medical emergencies ) were # 1 by a huge margin , and everything else ( which includes all the aircraft-related events ) was far down in the weeds in comparison . Given that , seeing that aircraft 123XY declared an emergency 5 times last year does n't necessarily mean that it has had more mechanical issues than its fleetmate 234XY that only did so once ; it may just mean that 123 got more than its share of sick passengers . In fact , in airline operations at least , mechanical issues are almost always caught on the ground , so an aircraft with " gremlins " will usually manifest them in terms of maintenance delays and cancellations , rather than in-flight emergencies .
Footnote : I hope this is the correct / current regulation . Published date is 25 January 2015 . Your question is covered ( for EASA regulations ) in the document Certification Specifications and Guidance Material for Aerodromes Design ( <URL> ) in two sections : Taxiway Slope ( CS ADR-DSN . D. 265 ) Taxiway Slope changes ( CS ADR-DSN . D. 270 ) CS ADR-DSN . D. 265 Longitudinal slopes on taxiways ( a ) The safety objective of limiting the longitudinal taxiway slope is to enable stabilised safe use of taxiway by an aircraft . ( b ) The longitudinal slope of a taxiway should not exceed : 1.5 % where the code letter is C , D , E , or F ; and 3 % where the code letter is A or B. CS ADR-DSN . D. 270 Longitudinal slope changes on taxiways ( a ) The safety objective of limiting the longitudinal taxiway slope changes is to avoid damage of aircraft and to enable safe use of taxiway by an aircraft . ( b ) Where slope changes on a taxiway can not be avoided , the transition from one slope to another slope should be accomplished by a curved surface with a rate of change not exceeding : 1 % per 30m ( minimum radius of curvature of 3000m ) where the code letter is C , D , E , or F ; and 1 % per 25m ( minimum radius of curvature of 2500m ) where the code letter is A or B. ( c ) Where slope changes in ( b ) ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) are not achieved and slopes on a taxiway can not be avoided , the transition from one slope to another slope should be accomplished by a curved surface which should allow the safe operation of all aircraft in all weather conditions . The letters refer to the <URL> .
end question
start question
How is close formation flying possible with things like thermals and turbulence ?
Disclaimer : I 'm not a Blue Angels pilot so do n't know their exact procedures/limitations , but have done a fair share of military formation flying . Answer : It is possible , it 's just a more " bumpy " ride . Not a huge issue if the turbulence is not severe enough ( or of a " rotor " type ) to cause uncontrollable rolls in three dimensions . When flying formation you are separated from other aircraft in three dimensions . In turbulent weather conditions the aircraft position usually results in vertical displacement , not so much in horizontal displacement . This means the aircraft will not roll into the adjacent aircraft ( the roll effect happens when you fly into wake turbulence or through rotors for example ) , but do more of an " up and down " jump . The same air disturbance will effect several ( if not all ) aircraft in the formation , sometimes with just a tiny delay . Also , the heavier and faster the aircraft is , the less effect the same amount of turbulence will have . If weather does n't permit a small single-engine piston to fly formation , it may still be workable for jets . Ultimately , it is up to the flight lead to : - determine if conditions permit close formation - fly the formation to avoid known hazards ( for example if the wind is from the N , do n't fly on the S side of hills/mountains )
I found this off the website after some searching : The advantages of the flying fuselage aircraft ( FFA ) category , compared to conventional aircraft ( CA ) category and flying body aircraft ( FBA ) category , are the following : In conventional aircraft design , the fuselage is aerodynamically neutral and joins only the separate parts of the aircraft . As the wings grow the buoyancy grows as well . In the flying body aircrafts , aerodynamic lift is produced only on the outside of the fuselage and the wings , which comprise a unite body . As the fuselage and wings grow , the generated lift becomes greater . In the flying fuselage aircraft the extra lift is generated from the interior of the fuselage and from the whole aircraft in and out . Thus , maximizing the full extent of the aerodynamic performance of the aircraft . Practically , the new category of the flying fuselage has the following advantages compared to the other categories above . i ) because of the greater generated lift , the aircraft is designed smaller in size , in order to have the same performance as its peers . ii ) due to the smaller dimensions of the aircraft , it occupies less space and needs a smaller hangar . ( cost reduction ) . iii ) the most important advantage is that during the flight in conventional and flying body aircrafts , stability comes only from the main wings dihedral , as well as the size of caudal . The flying fuselage design acts as a funnel and provides extra stability to the aircraft , making the air mass passing through the fuselage in a column of air ( air shaft ) . This is maximizing the stability of the aircraft in all angles and phases of flight . <URL> So what I think what they 're trying to say is that the body generates lift as well . It sounds mostly like something like a <URL> or <URL> in my opinion as a meeting point between a conventional and flying wing aircraft . In any case , the term FFA seems very uncommon and not widely used . <URL> The closest similar thing I 've found was this <URL> . The F-22 Raptor which it seems to closely mimic is not considered a flying wing nor a blended wing body , and after looking at the fuselage I remained a little unconvinced that it generates substantial lift as a body due to the substantial upper structure and lower structure .
Two things are important here : It is about a glider , so no fuel is consumed , and the mass is constant over time . The angle of attack is constant . This means also that the lift and drag coefficients are constant . If the mass and the lift coefficient are constant , and we assume a constant load factor ( implied by the description ) , the dynamic pressure is also constant , and the airspeed changes with the square root of air density . implies that the altitude decreases , so the indicated speed will be constant , but the true speed will decrease . Unfortunately , the condition e ) is not precise enough to make this distinction . e ) could be correct or not , depending on the definition of V. I would suggest that also c ) could be a correct answer : If the angle of attack and the mass are constant , so should be the drag coefficient . However , gliding down also implies that the <URL> changes because true speed decreases and temperature increases over the glide . Strictly speaking , this would also mean a very slowly changing drag coefficient . Answers b ) and d ) are false and I agree with your reasoning .
You ca n't control the radio volume separately for the passengers but you can control the intercom volume separately . If the passengers ' headsets have individual volume controls you can ask them to turn down the volume and you can then compensate by turning up the passenger volume for the intercom . That way the overall intercom volume will be about the same but the radio/ATC volume will be lowered . If all else fails , you could turn off the radio completely for your passengers :-)
In general , <URL> For training time specifically , the foreign instructor must hold an ICAO-compliant license , per <URL> . So it should be no problem in your situation .
Turbulence is reported on a scale of light , moderate , severe , and extreme . The full definitions are available in the <URL> . As experienced in the cabin , For Light Turbulence , " Occupants may feel a slight strain against belts or shoulder straps . Unsecured objects may be displaced slightly . Food service may be conducted and little or no difficulty is encountered in walking . " For Moderate Turbulence , " Occupants feel definite strains against seat belts or shoulder straps . Unsecured objects are dislodged . Food service and walking are difficult . " For Severe Turbulence , " Occupants are forced violently against seat belts or shoulder straps . Unsecured objects are tossed about . Food service and walking are impossible . " Extreme Turbulence is " turbulence in which the aircraft is violently tossed about and is practically impossible to control . It may causes structural damage . " As a pilot , once the ride gets to the point of light turbulence ( and not just light chop ) , I 'll probably ask the flight attendants to go ahead &amp; sit down . Even though they might be able to serve , I do n't want them out in the middle of the aircraft if things get worse &amp; then they 'd have nowhere to sit . That may not be a PA announcement ; I may just call them on the interphone &amp; say something to the effect of , " ATC says this is probably going to last for a while , so why do n't you guys go ahead &amp; take your seats for a bit . " If we find out that the ride is about to get bad soon &amp; suddenly , that 's when I 'll typically use the PA and be more directive : " Flight attendants , take your seats ; flight attendants please take your seats . " In moderate turbulence , there 's no question but that everybody needs to be sitting down . And I 'll be looking for better options ( typically , changing altitude ) in order to get a better ride . Sometimes a better altitude is available , and some times you just have to ride it out . I wo n't intentionally fly into severe turbulence . If I know before takeoff that the only way to complete the flight is to transit an area of severe turbulence , I wo n't take off . If it 's possible to work out a different routing and/or altitude ( s ) that avoid all the areas of known &amp; forecast severe turbulence , then we can plan on that , but you wo n't find me ever explaining to passengers before the flight that we 'll be flying through severe turbulence today . Not unless we 're the last flight out of Saigon before it gets overrun by the murderous hordes , but I do n't really foresee that scenario . If you do fly into severe turbulence despite the best precautions , you 've ( hopefully ! ) already got everybody seated since you were probably expecting moderate turbulence anyway . After landing , the aircraft will need to be inspected , because any encounter with turbulence classified as severe requires an inspection before the aircraft can fly again . Typically , no problems are found ( airliners are built pretty sturdy these days ) , but a mechanic will check all the things that might be over-stressed or damaged in that sort of an encounter in order to ensure that everything is still good to go fly again . As far as preflight PA 's when we 're expecting light or moderate turbulence , that depends a little bit on the situation . If it 's a short flight with enough time in some sort of turbulence , I 'll coordinate with the flight attendants ahead of time to not bother trying to serve , and then on the " welcome aboard " PA I 'll explain that situation to the passengers . The ride is forecast to be pretty bumpy , and so to keep our flight attendants safe , and since I 'm sure nobody wants hot coffee spilled in their laps , I 've asked our flight attendants to remain seated for the flight and not attempt any beverage service . So sorry , it 's all about safety , thank you for your understanding , blah blah blah , and since they 'll be staying seated , we do ask that you also observe the Fasten Seatbelt sign and remain seated for the short duration of the flight today as well . " If only a small part of the flight is expected to be turbulent , I probably wo n't say much about it at the gate ( the Flight Attendants cover " stay seated while the seatbelt sign in on " at length ) , and then maybe as we 're getting close , I 'll mention something just to reinforce what they say on the PA. . But if there 's nothing special to communicate , I do n't see great value in creating apprehension before the flight about an interval of turbulence that we may end up avoiding altogether . Some pilots to make it part of their preflight PA 's to re-emphasize the Fasten Seatbelt sign and stress again that we want you seated when it 's on . That 's an individual pilot 's preference ( at least at my company ) . Our guidelines recommend against using the word " turbulence " because it does cause apprehension , and instead talk about a choppy ride or rough air or bumps in the road or whatever . Conveys the same meaning to the passengers , while hopefully scaring the nervous fliers a little less .
Clouds can be formed in many different ways . Before we go through them , we need to establish some basic facts . Clouds are made up of liquid water , or solid ice . Clouds are not water vapour ; water is a gas , and is invisible . Once more , because this is important : clouds are liquid water , not water vapour . Water droplets in clouds are extremely small . Clouds are visible because light is scattered in these droplets . The water droplets can stay suspended in the sky due to friction and air currents . In order for water vapour to condense into liquid water droplets , to form clouds , condensation nuclei must be present . This can be tiny particles of dust or other impurities around which water droplets can form . This is where the idea of human cloud generation comes form - by adding condensation nuclei to the atmosphere , clouds are more likely to form . A mass of air can contain a certain amount of water vapour ( = gas ) . The maximum amount depends on several factors , of which the most important one is temperature . Cold air can contain less water vapour than warm air . If more water vapour is present than the air can contain , the water has to condense ( the opposite of evaporate ) , to form water droplets - clouds . So , how are clouds formed then ? By adding moisture Air can only contain a certain amount of water vapour . If we try to add more water vapour to the air , it " wo n't fit " . As a result , the water vapour will condense , forming visible water droplets - clouds . This can happen over a surface of water during a warm day , when surface water evaporates . The air wo n't be able to absorb the evaporated water , so instead it has to become liquid . Cooling from below ( advection ) Warm air can contain more water vapour than cold air . When a warm , moist airmass moves over a cold surface , the temperature of the air will drop . When reaching a certain temperature , the air becomes saturated - it contains exactly as much water vapour as it possible can . We call this temperature the dew point . If the air is cooled further , some of the water vapour in the air has to condense into water droplets . Imagine squeezing a saturated sponge - the water has to come out . Adiabatic cooling ( convection ) On a sunny day , the sun will heat up the surface of the earth . Because the surface is not uniform , it will heat up at different rates . A sandy field will get much warmer than a wet area , for example . The air directly above such hot areas will also be heated up , by radiation from the surface . Hot air has a lower density than cold air , so at some point it will start to rise ( " heat rises " ) . As this warm bubble of air rises , it will start to expand . This is because pressure drops with altitude . As the air expands , it will cool off . Now we 're back at the basic principle that cold air can hold less water vapour than hot air . As our bubble of air rises , and cools down , at some point , it will reach the dew point , and a cloud will form . The adiabatic lapse rate is the rate at which a bubble of rising air will cool off with altitude . Rising air will cool with approximately 3 degrees C per 1,000 ft of altitude gain ( dry adiabatic lapse rate - DALR ) , simply because it expands as a result of the lower pressure . When air starts to condense , and a cloud forms , this process releases latent heat . Simply put , it took energy to make the water evaporate , and this energy is released again when the water condenses . This means that once our bubble of rising air reaches the dew point , and a cloud starts to form , it will actually cool off slower . The saturated adiabatic lapse rate ( SALR ) is approximately 1.5 degrees C per 1,000 ft. Now , for how long will our bubble of air keep rising ? It will keep rising as long as the air surrounding it is cooler than itself . The general temperature of the atmosphere at a given location is known as the enviromental lapse rate - ELR or ELT . As long as the DALR is less than the ELR up to the dew point , rising air will form clouds . Frontal lifting A warm front is when a mass of warm air moves forwards , displacing a mass of colder air . Since warm air has a lower density than cold air , when the two air masses meet , the warm air will be forced upwards , above the cold air . This causes the air to expand , and cool . As this happens , the air might reach the dew point , and clouds will be formed . Orographic lift Orographic lift is quite similar to frontal lift . Instead of being forced up by cold air below , an air mass is forced upwards by terrain ( i.e. wind blowing towards a mountain ) . Then it 's the same old story - the air rises , expands , cools and water vapour condenses . Turbulence and convergence Mechanical turbulence , for example due to rough terrain , can cause vertical movements in the atmosphere . If these are large enough , air can be forced upwards , which , as we now know , will form a cloud . Convergence is when two air masses move towards each other , creating a vertical stream of air in the middle . This column of air moves upwards , an
The protected area for circling approaches is based on distance from the runway ( s ) , and the size of that area ( and your approach MDA ) depends upon your aircraft 's VREF or 1.3 & times ; VSO -- or , if higher , your actual IAS approach speed . Here 's the graphic the FAA uses to demonstrate this , along with the old protected area radii : New circling minumums For approaches that use the new criteria , both Aeronav and Jeppesen charts show an inverted " C " in the circling minimums section of the approach plate . This signifies that the approach uses the new , altitude-dependent protected areas . Those areas are defined in the same way as before , but with different radii . Aeronav ( NACO ) format : Jeppesen format : As far as figuring out how large your protected area is in flight , you 'll have to use the inverted " C " as a cue to look up the table that will be included in the appendices of the approach plates : <URL> The NBAA has <URL> , but this basically sums it up . The update leaves us with what is honestly a less-than-desirable system . Looking up a table to brief your circling radius in flight ( or even prior to your flight ) is certainly a lot less useful than simply printing the protected area radius on the minimums section . It 's worth noting that feature <URL> ( p. 4 ) when the change was being discussed .
To my surprise , this does exist , at least in the UK . According to the <URL> : 7 Emergency Triangle Procedure 7.1 Pilots lost or uncertain of position and experiencing either transmitter or complete radio failure are advised , as a last resort , to carry out special procedures to indicate to controllers that they require assistance . 7.2 The aircraft fly at least two triangular patterns , before resuming course , as follows : Table 1 : <URL> 7.3 If a triangular pattern is observed , controllers shall advise the D&amp;D cell of the position and track and continue to plot the aircraft whilst it is within ATS surveillance system cover . Controllers should also be aware of the effect wind may have on the pilot 's ability to fly an accurate triangle . I say " to my surprise " because there are well-established procedures for <URL> and <URL> . But having said that , it 's possible that the triangle procedure is more useful in the UK ( for example ) than the US , where there are usually plenty of uncontrolled airports around and many pilots have no need to talk to ATC anyway . In the UK , with a much smaller airspace , fewer airports and more ATC control ( at least , that 's my understanding ) , it may be more critical to give even VFR aircraft a " last resort " to contact ATC .
The <URL> lists the required separations . Behind a heavy aircraft , the departure hold is 3 minutes and it may not be waived . Behind a small aircraft , the hold may be waived on pilot request only : 3 . Additionally , appropriate time or distance intervals are provided to departing aircraft : ( a ) Two minutes or the appropriate 4 or 5 mile radar separation when takeoff behind a heavy/B757 jet will be : ( 1 ) From the same threshold . ( 2 ) On a crossing runway and projected flight paths will cross . ( 3 ) From the threshold of a parallel runway when staggered ahead of that of the adjacent runway by less than 500 feet and when the runways are separated by less than 2,500 feet . NOTE - Controllers may not reduce or waive these intervals . b . A 3-minute interval will be provided when a small aircraft will takeoff : 1 . From an intersection on the same runway ( same or opposite direction ) behind a departing large aircraft , 2 . In the opposite direction on the same runway behind a large aircraft takeoff or low/missed approach . NOTE - This 3-minute interval may be waived upon specific pilot request . c . A 3-minute interval will be provided for all aircraft taking off when the operations are as described in subparagraph b1 and 2 above , the preceding aircraft is a heavy/B757 jet , and the operations are on either the same runway or parallel runways separated by less than 2,500 feet . Controllers may not reduce or waive this interval . EDIT : The AIM <URL> ( intersection takeoffs ) also addresses this question , including suggested pilot phraseology for waiving the hold ( emphasis mine ) : Controllers are required to separate small aircraft ( 12,500 pounds or less , maximum certificated takeoff weight ) departing ( same or opposite direction ) from an intersection behind a large nonheavy aircraft on the same runway , by ensuring that at least a 3-minute interval exists between the time the preceding large aircraft has taken off and the succeeding small aircraft begins takeoff roll . To inform the pilot of the required 3-minute hold , the controller will state , " Hold for wake turbulence . " If after considering wake turbulence hazards , the pilot feels that a lesser time interval is appropriate , the pilot may request a waiver to the 3-minute interval . To initiate such a request , simply say " Request waiver to 3-minute interval , " or a similar statement . Controllers may then issue a takeoff clearance if other traffic permits , since the pilot has accepted the responsibility for wake turbulence separation . Wake turbulence in general is considered a key safety issue by the FAA and there is a large amount of information in the AIM , the ATC guide and elsewhere .
Yes , it has been done before in an even larger aircraft , the Boeing 367-80 , <URL> . This aircraft was the prototype for the Model 707 . When a barrel roll maneuver is properly performed the aircraft remains in a positive-G state , so no " inverted flight " is experienced by the aircraft . According to the <URL> , The Barrel roll is a combination between a loop and a roll . You complete one loop while completing one roll at the same time . The flight path during a barrel roll has the shape of a horizontal cork screw . Imagine a big barrel , with the airplanes wheels rolling along the inside of the barrel in a cork screw path . During a barrel roll , the pilot always experiences positive Gs . The maximum is about 2.5 to 3 G . The minimum about 0.5 G.
Most of the time the turbulence we experience is termed " chop " , which is akin to what you experience on a boat on the lake -- bumps but no real altitude deviations . With altitude deviations we 'll call it " turbulence " . Within these broad categories we 'll qualify them with " light " , " moderate " , " severe " and " extreme " in reports to ATC and other aircraft . These reports do suffer from a fair bit of subjectivity with respect to aircraft type ( wing stiffness ) and pilot experience . If it is light chop , I 'll generally just ride it out and turn the seatbelt signs on . The first thing I 'll do if encountering moderate chop or turbulence is to query ATC and get ride reports from aircraft ahead of us and at different altitudes than us . From this information I 'll make a determination to ride it out or to request a climb/descent . If the turbulence was particularly bad , slowing down was an option , but I only came across that need a few times . Our ability to descend would often be limited by route length and fuel and major lateral deviations also depended on contingency fuel , so in some cases we had no choice but to stay in the chop . If the turbulent areas were well forecast or had lots of PIREPS , our dispatchers would sometimes route us differently . As for power adjustments , if we were n't slowing down due to aircraft limitations I would just adjust power so that maximum airspeed deviations stayed below Mmo .
Nope , pilots do not use autopilot to fly in formation . An autopilot can not achieve the precision required for flying formation ( e.g. keep the wingtip aligned to that door ) . Usage of autopilot would also hinder responses when an immediate correction is necessary . You may refer to the TV episode Jet Stream and Blue Angle training videos on the internet . From the pilot 's perspective , the planes are always moving around , though in a confined space . Continuous small adjustment is necessary . From the ground , the small floating can not be noticed visually because the observer is too far away . P.S. Based on my 17 years of experience with PC flight simulator , flying in formation in multiplayer is definitely doable , and can become second nature with practice .
It 's it possible ? Yes , you would do it the same way as in any other airplane . Is it effective ? Yes , just look at all of the fuselage area that is exposed to the relative wind . Is it useful ? Not really . With all of the other drag devices , you should n't really need it . Is it recommended ? You would have to check the AFM . I looked in the <URL> and there is no limitation against it , but if you need to slip then that 's a strong indication of poor planning and an unstabilized approach which would require a go around . Even at higher altitudes , it is n't very comfortable for the passengers !
Bird strike happens all the time - almost on a daily basis . See <URL> : there are 9 instances of bird strike on the past 7 days at the time this answer is written . Usually it is ingested into the engine ( which usually <URL> ) , other times it impacts the cone or leading edge of the wings or knocks off a pitot tube . While a few incident make it to mainstream news from time to time , bird strike is a common occurrence in the aviation industry . It is an unusual situation , but not a dangerous situation if the pilots handle it properly . How severe if it collided with the windshield ? The windshield is <URL> during certification . At worst the outer layers will crack , and the pilot will execute the landing using the " cracked windshield " procedure ( Yes there is a procedure written for this scenario ) . A note about the UFO : technically it is an UFO , an Unidentified Flying Object . It could be a bird , a drone , weather balloon etc. . Examination of the impact area might reveal what the object was .
Assuming that you 're in category 3 ( aircraft under 12,500 lbs ) then an approval is only valid for 365 days , so if you want to continue flight training after that then you need to request a new one : Once you have permission to train , you have 180 days to begin training and 365 days to complete the approved training . Both of these time periods start from the day you receive approval . For example , if you begin flight training 30 days after you have been approved , you now have 335 days to finish . If you do not finish , a new training request must be submitted . That 's from the <URL> ; the TSA 's <URL> is a bit more difficult to use .
Is it possible ? certainly yes . Airbus has <URL> in which the external view is displayed in the cockpit using cameras and screens . The technology itself is available and some significant progress has been made in recent years in the related equipment . Will it become a reality ? Maybe . At present , there is nothing wrong with windshields in aircraft ( pointing laser at aircraft is illegal ; anyway , lasers can damage camera sensors too ) . Why fix something that ai n't broken ? In the future this may well be used , maybe in supersonic aircraft ( For example , spike aerospace has proposed a design without cabin windows ; interestingly , the design still has cockpit windows ) . Addition of cameras and displays adds one more layer of complexity , which is at present unnecessary . Also , there are other issues to consider . In order to give the pilot with a view at least as good as the exiting aircraft , images from multiple cameras have to be ' stitched ' and displayed . The system should be able to do this without any lag ( F-35 had a similar problem while joining feeds from its DAS ) . Unless there is a compelling reason for the addition of cameras and displays , the windscreen is here to stay .
A lot has changed since the Frank Abagnale / " Catch Me If You Can " days , and riding as a non-revenue passenger ( particularly in the cockpit jump seat ) is no longer not as simple as grabbing a passable captain 's uniform , polishing your shoes up , and smooth-talking the flight crew . Someone seeking a ride in an airplane jump seat would still have to pass through airport security and prove their identity &amp; authorization to occupy such a seat to the satisfaction of the crew operating the flight , which would likely include checking credentials that are at lease somewhat difficult to forge . So in short it 's possible -- if someone is particularly adept at <URL> , forgery , and has at least a working knowledge of airport &amp; airline security procedures they might get away with it -- but it 's extremely unlikely , and as has been pointed out the consequences if and when you get caught are particularly unpleasant these days .
If the rudder is jammed in the neutral position ( as stated in your question ) , then landing is easy . You will just land using ordinary techniques . The plane may feel sloppy , and passengers sitting at the back will complain about feeling dizzy , but the aircraft is easily controllable and landing would not be any problem . Now things are different when the rudder is jammed to one side , for example in <URL> . The crew faced major controlling issues with a full right rudder , engine failure and very high sink rate . But even then , the pilots managed to land successfully .
Large airplanes are <URL> so vapor escaping through the fuel port is not an issue as it is in smaller airplanes . You are correct , however , that the fuel/air mixture existing in the tank will be displaced by the incoming fuel . The wings will have vents installed that will allow the air mixture in the tank to escape ( and fuel in the case of over fuelling or excess expansion of the fuel after it is loaded ) . The fire risk is minimized in three ways I can think of : The airplane is grounded to the fuel truck , minimizing the risk of ignition via sparking . The wing vents have flame arrestors so that if the air mixture leaving the wing did ignite , the flame would not make it into the tank . Atmospheric dispersion -- once the air mixture is out of the tank it will become more dilute with time . In the cases there is more than vapor released , e.g. liquid fuel is expelled , these spills will be absorbed to minimize fire risk . In the ultimate case of fire the fuel truck has fire extinguishers and there is a fire station on the airport that can apply foam and water as needed .
end question
start question
Is it possible to upgrade an old F-16 to the Block-60 / 62 standard ?
F-16D / E Block-60 is an evolutionary upgrade to the F-16A / B Block-15 with the following differences : Engine : General Electric F110-GE-132 in place of Pratt &amp; Whitney F100-PW-200 turbofan . Avionics : This is where the majority of upgrades have been carried out . Block 60 has the AN/APG -80 ' Agile Beam ' AESA radar , AN/ASQ -28 IFTS ( Internal FLIR and Targeting System ) replacing the earlier external pods , ALQ-165 electronic countermeasures system , improved pilot displays , improved mission computer and ability to fire more weapons like AIM-132 and AGM-154 . The main structural modification is the addition of conformal fuel tanks in the wings , with slight change in dimensions and increase in MTO weight - 46,000 lb vs 37,500 lb <URL> F-16 Block 20 , Image from f-16 . net <URL> F-16 Block 60 , Image from f-16 . net Though it is possible to upgrade block 15 to block 60 ( albeit with some heavy modifications ) , the question is why anyone one would do that . Even the youngest Block 15 aircraft is nearly 20 years old ( the last aircraft rolled off the assembly line in 1996 ) and LM has shut down the F-16 production line . The upgrade will be costly ( you 're changing some of the costliest items in the aircraft - avionics and engines ) and will not be cost-effective in an aircraft past half its service life . Also , as far as I know LM does n't offer any upgrades from Block 15 to 60 , indicating consumer indifference .
If the aircraft has not established a <URL> , a go around is required . According to EUROCONTROL 's Skybrary , a stabilised approach is defined as : Their Approach-and-landing Accident Reduction ( ALAR ) Briefing Note 7-1 suggests that " all flights must be stabilised by 1000 feet above airport elevation in IMC and 500 feet above airport elevation in VMC . An approach is stabilised when all of the following criteria are met : The aircraft is on the correct flight path Only small changes in heading/pitch are necessary to maintain the correct flight path The airspeed is not more than VREF + 20kts indicated speed and not less than VREF The aircraft is in the correct landing configuration Sink rate is no greater than 1000 feet/minute ; if an approach requires a sink rate greater than 1000 feet/minute a special briefing should be conducted Power setting is appropriate for the aircraft configuration and is not below the minimum power for the approach as defined by the operating manual All briefings and checklists have been conducted Specific types of approach are stabilized if they also fulfill the following : ILS approaches must be flown within one dot of the glide-slope and localizer a Category II or III approach must be flown within the expanded localizer band during a circling approach wings should be level on final when the aircraft reaches 300 feet above airport elevation ; and , Unique approach conditions or abnormal conditions requiring a deviation from the above elements of a stabilized approach require a special briefing . An approach that becomes unstabilised below 1000 feet above airport elevation in IMC or 500 feet above airport elevation in VMC requires an immediate go-around . ( Source : <URL> )
The TSA operates the DCA Access Standard Security Program ( DASSP ) , which allows general aviation flights originating at designated <URL> to fly into DCA , however <URL> , some of the most significant being : You will need an FAA <URL> to fly in to DCA ( This is required for all unscheduled flights into DCA ) You will need to submit a flight manifest &amp; undergo TSA passenger/baggage screening The flight crew will need to be cleared by the TSA ( fingerprint/background check ) You will need to carry an <URL> onboard So the answer is " Yes , you can do it , but you probably do n't want to . " It also makes no sense to do it in something like a Cessna 172 as you 're giving up at least one seat for the security officer . The program is really geared toward larger aircraft ( business jets , etc. ) transporting executives with a business reason to be in DC , like testifying before Congress .
Airbus fly-by-wire aircraft have what is called envelope protection which is to prevent pilot inputs from exceeding structural limits as well as keep them from getting the aircraft into an upset flight regime ( stall , overbank , etc. ) . The philosophy behind it is that , if the pilots need to perform an extreme maneuver they can be as aggressive with the controls as they want , confident that they wo n't break the plane . Boeing generally disagrees with this approach saying that , in an emergency , the pilot needs to have all possible force at his disposal , even if it breaks the plane . See the <URL> Federico linked to in comments for more on this . Of course , the Airbus system can only provide these protections when systems are all functioning properly . If part of the system is not working the protections are removed . Examples : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , As far as AA587 , the A-300 is not a fly-by-wire aircraft and does n't have envelope protections . It 's debatable , though , if envelope protection would have helped in that situation . None of the rudder inputs by itself was outside of the structural limitations of the aircraft so the computer would probably not have prevented them . The failure was due to the inputs being made in quick succession which quickly fatigued the composite material of the rudder . The computer can be programmed to know , for instance , how much g-force the structure can take . But it would be difficult to determine what complex combinations of inputs might exceed the strength of the design .
The EUROCONTROL example you give , allows controllers from all member states to work in Maastricht Upper Area Control ( Netherlands ) and provide ATC over Belgium , ( part of ) Germany , Luxembourg and the Netherlands . Many of the controllers there are not from any of these four countries so they are foreign air traffic controllers . Also EUROCONTROL is only providing Upper Area Control above the four countries mentioned above . All member states have their own Air Traffic Control providers , some have more than one . Within EU countries ( note that not all EUROCONTROL member states are EU member states ) we have freedom of labour movement . So for EU citizens there should be no official barriers to work as a foreign controller in another EU member state . Apart from the intra-EU rules , some ATC organisation within the EU are open to applications from outside the EU . For example the Dutch Air Traffic Control Organisation LVNL is open to <URL> . Applicants are not limited to citizens of EU countries . ATC at airports is becoming a commercial business . The companies that you mentioned provide civil ATC at various airports around the world . Another example is ATC at London Gatwick Airport : the contract was <URL> . Outside the EU I know that there are many foreign controllers work in the United Arab Emirates . They are looking for <URL> at this moment as well .
According to <URL> 's medical guru on their discussion board ( members only , or I would link to an example ) it is possible to get a medical certificate following a tumor removal but only after a 5-year wait and a battery of tests . But having said that , medical issues are very individual and the FAA 's <URL> suggests that one year is enough in some cases . In the end the only way to get a definite answer is to find a good AME who can review your case in detail and advise you . Note that standard advice is to schedule a consultation first , rather than go straight for the actual flight medical . Disclaimer : I 'm not a doctor or AME and I have no idea how brains work :-)
Although I used to think this was impossible , I now believe this can be done using weathervaning . At a fast enough forward speed , the airflow will naturally keep the helicopter facing in that direction . For an example of someone doing this in reality , for an almost identical time period that OP requested , see this link : <URL> According to the link , he needed to maintain 80 knots forward speed to prevent it from rotating out of control . Note whether this is possible may well depend on the weathervaning charactistics of the particular helicopter .
The simplest answer to your question is that the F-16 has not yet been retired because , for its cost , there 's nothing better being built in enough numbers to replace the nearly 4500 Falcons produced . The F-16 was designed on the trailing edge of a surge in technological development by the U.S. military in the wake of Vietnam . The U.S. had fought that war with an air force primarily designed for a standoff engagement with the Soviet Union directly , thus emphasizing interceptor-style fighters targeting bombers at extreme range using missiles . Robert McNamara , U.S. SecDef for the Johnson and Nixon administrations , also emphasized a " one-size-fits-all " approach to aircraft design , requiring the USAF and Navy to collaborate on common aircraft designs that covered a multitude of mission profiles . This created the F-4 , a fast but heavy plane that was a handful to fly , weaknesses that were exploited by pilots of technologically-inferior MiG-19 and MiG-21 aircraft in close combat engagements that the Phantom was ill-prepared to fight . The lesson " dogfighting is n't dead " prompted a renaissance in jet fighter design in the 70s , producing the F-14 and F-15 long-range air superiority fighters , and the smaller F-16 and F/A -18 multirole fighters . Maneuverability , a wide range of weapons from guns to long-range missiles , and high pilot situational awareness by reducing workload and integrating flight and fire control systems , were all emphasized strongly . The Soviets were taken somewhat by surprise at this surge ; as of when the F-16 first flew , the Soviet air force and those of its allies had nothing that could compete . They answered a few years later with the MiG-29 , a smaller twin-engine design similar to the larger Su-27 which was in pre-production to answer the F-15 . These six fighters - F-14 , F-15 , F-16 , F/A -18 , MiG-29 and Su-27 - represented the cutting edge of fighter design as of the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 . The new U.S. designs to enter production since , the F-22 Raptor and F-35 Lightning II , are themselves fairly old ; the first production F-22 was built in in 1996 and flew in 1997 , almost 20 years ago , the result of a design competition with planes flying back in 1990 , and the initial RFP originating in the 1980s . The F-35 first flew in 2006 , itself derived from the X-35 JSF testbed which first flew in 2000 , so that design is between 10 and 15 years old now depending on how you count . Their protracted development times are a direct result of the reduction in pace of the U.S.-Russian arms race since 1991 ; with no other technologically-advanced military adversary on the horizon , there simply has n't been the impetus to get these planes out to the front lines ( there is some civilian talk of restarting the F-22 production line to bolster Raptor numbers , as the Sukhoi PAK-FA and Chengdu J-20 are very close to production and the F-35 is way behind projections and proving a disappointment so far , but another 100 new Raptors are projected to cost a ludicrous $ 225 million each due to increased costs of restarting the line and producing them in parallel with the F-35 ) . The F-35 also had the handicap of being a return to the " one-size-fits-all " design mentality , being intended as a replacement for practically everything besides the Raptor in the U.S. air arsenal , Air Force , Navy and Marines , with an F or A in its designation . That 's caused a lot of technological headaches , since any replacement for the Marines ' AV-8B Harrier is going to need STOVL capability , and the Navy and Air Force have always had a different though overlapping set of requirements relating to the Navy 's basic need to operate aircraft from a ship at sea that 's maybe a fifth as long as the USAF 's minimum runway length requirements for its airbases . The resulting design is big , heavy , and relies on the most powerful single engine the U.S. has ever put in a fighter , which pushes the boundaries of the stress limits of the materials we use to make jet engines . Lastly , military spending in the last 10 years or so has been preoccupied with developing and fielding technology to fight a low-tech insurgency ; our enemies know they ca n't beat us in a toe-to-toe fight , so they do n't fight that way , instead targeting our multi-million-dollar military hardware with Vietnam-era milsurp RPGs and oil-drum IEDs costing maybe $ 100 a shot . On this kind of battlefield , stealth air-superiority aircraft are kind of redundant as the enemy does n't even have radar , much less an air force to exercise superiority over . That 's why the F-22 has never seen real combat ; the U.S. has enjoyed " air supremacy " by default in its primary combat theaters , as its enemies have never fielded an air force to speak of .
How do makers get data from aircraft in flight The data is usually transmitted using something like <URL> which is a system used in aircraft to transmit data in flight using underlying radio and satellite communications systems . The communications infrastructure is typically provided by large multinational companies who specialise in this job . See ARINC , SITA , Inmarsat and so on . Engine-makers and Aircraft makers often offer pro-active maintenance and support services to airlines , operators and lessors which involve their aircraft transmitting such data to the makers . For example , Airbus has <URL> Airbus Real Time Health Monitoring ( AiRTHM ) is an advanced service through which A380 and A350 XWB operators can receive guidance on optimised maintenance and real-time troubleshooting actions . As part of this effort , a dedicated 24/7 team takes advantage of the uplink technology to further investigate and anticipate warnings/fault consequences . The uplink technology allows real-time remote access to aircraft data parameters via the ACARS digital datalink system , enabling Airbus AiRTHM engineers to deliver maintenance and technical advice both in flight and on the ground . Boeing have <URL> AHM sutomatically monitors , collects and transmits service levels using ACARS through the installed Aircraft Condition Monitoring System ( ACMS ) Note that ACARS is a relatively low-volume data transmission system . Makers have explored other underlying communication systems as a way to transmit more data at lower cost . How is this data stored It is true that there is a lot of data but Boeing and Airbus are big businesses and are able to partner with major IT businesses . For example <URL> " Today 's aircraft can generate up to a half terabyte of data per flight , an unprecedented volume and variety of data seen in few other industries , " said Timothy Wholey , IBM global leader for the aerospace and defense industry in its global business services unit . Note - not all data has to be transmitted in flight . A lot of data is collected and stored in the plane and only transferred when the aircraft is on the ground . Makers like Airbus and Boeing inevitably are already very heavy users of IT for aircraft design purposes . For example , <URL>
There is an excellent answer at <URL> The <URL> is a ground attack fighter unsuited to intercepting and/or shooting down 777s . If the Ukrainian air force wanted to do so , they have better aircraft available . The SU-25 max speed is slower than a cruising 777 . The SU-25 has an operational ceiling of 16000 ft with max weapons to 23000 ft clean , MH17 was at 33000 ft. It is an unpressurised aircraft . As a ground attack aircraft it probably only rarely carries air to air missiles . It can carry the R-60 infra-red air-to-air missile which has a 6 lb warhead effective against small aircraft . An R-60 once hit and destroyed one engine of a small BAE 125 business jet at 35000 ft but failed to bring it down , apparently the missile failed to explode . <URL> , a Boeing 707 , was hit by an R-60 and made an emergency landing 40 minutes later . The R-60 is a short-range missile ( 5 miles ) . The Russians claim the SU-25 came within two or three miles of MH17 . On the whole this makes the SU-25 a poor choice for shooting down a cruising 777 . It seems unlikely that a 777 would be shot down in this way . Not impossible , but far less likely than other proposed scenarios such as those involving BUK ( SA-11 ) ground to air missiles . Results of an <URL> . Results of an <URL> ... two R-60s were launched , one missed . These R-60s were fired by supersonic interceptors , not by SU-25 ground-attack aircraft .
Yes you may , but you need to carry a <URL> while above 10,000 ft or in some types of <URL> and have it switched on . Which pretty much negates the stealth capabilities of your aircraft . To quote the linked AOPA page : According to 14 CFR 99.13 , no person may operate an aircraft into or out of the United States , or into , within , or across an ADIZ designated in subpart B unless operating a transponder with Mode C. Certain exemptions might apply to aircraft that were not originally certified with an engine-driven electrical system ; see 99.13 ( d ) .
No . This would require a docile pitch behavior of the airframe up to approx . 110 ° angle of attack . The <URL> is based on a geometry that has been carefully optimized by <URL> to behave nicely over its full AoA range , a care that has not been spent by <URL> . The specifications did not call for it , because the idea was to create a low-cost lightweight fighter to complement the heavy F-15 . However , even the F-15 is AoA limited because less care was spent on its aerodynamic refinement . At higher angles of attack , both the F-16 and the F-15 show a nasty pitch-up which can not be controlled with the aerodynamic control surfaces - only thrust vectoring can manage this . Contrast this which the Su-27 , which shows balanced and slightly negative ( nose down ) pitch moments over the full AoA range , so the limited control authority coupled with the aircraft 's dynamics can make the Cobra maneuver possible .
As Lnafziger says , a conventional landing is impossible for anything more than a tiny aircraft STOL aircraft ( Carrier ' runway ' length : 200m ) . As you state however , if it was an emergency , the aircraft carrier has a special net which it can fold up to stop planes , and since it can stop an F18 Hornet , it could probably take your Cessna as well :)
The list of approved maneuvers is in the POH , and I 'm sure the Lomcovak is not listed . If you are willing to do unapproved maneuvers , the issue is that because the aircraft tumbles rather than flies in this maneuver you have a few things to worry about : it starts with an outside maneuver , it is inverted , and the exit requires a high-speed dive which will exceed Vne or the +6 g the 152 Aerobat is rated for .
For the general question , the answer will be " it depends on the aircraft . " Specifically for the 787 , though , the ' 7E7 ' program was officially announced on <URL> . The program was later renamed to 787 . It received its type certificate on <URL> and flew its first passenger revenue flight on <URL> . So , from the time the program began to the time of the first revenue flight was about 8 years and 9 months . Of course , this is not including the R&amp;D time invested on different projects whose R&amp;D ended up being used either partially or completely in the 787 design before the 787 program itself began . It should also be noted that not every airframe they start developing ever actually flies . Notably , Boeing worked on designs including <URL> and the <URL> ( which would have cruised at Mach 0.98 ) before beginning the 7E7 program . In addition to completely new airframes , aircraft manufacturers also commonly make derivative airframes based on existing product families . Current examples of derivatives in development include the <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> ( " neo " stands for " new engine option . " ) However , development time on derivatives can vary widely depending on how much modification is being made to the existing airframes and the level of resources being devoted to the project ( which depends on market pressure . ) For a past example , the 2nd-generation Boeing 777 aircraft were announced on <URL> with the first aircraft , the 777-300ER , being certificated on <URL> , and first service entry on <URL> . This gives a time of about 4 years and 2 months from announcement to first service entry . This was likely slowed by the sharp downturn in aircraft orders following the 1999-2000 " . com bust " and , especially , the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S. Also important is the FAA rule for applying for a type certificate . This will apply for new programs like the 787 , but not for derivative programs like the 777X , which amend the original type certificate and do not need a new one . In <URL> : An application for type certification of a transport category aircraft is effective for 5 years and an application for any other type certificate is effective for 3 years ... So once Boeing applies for a new type certificate , they have 5 years to get the type cetificate approved , unless they convince the FAA upfront that more time is needed . If the time runs out they must reapply , and the new type certificate would require the aircraft to comply with all new regulations passed since their original application .
It 's it possible ? Yes , you would do it the same way as in any other airplane . Is it effective ? Yes , just look at all of the fuselage area that is exposed to the relative wind . Is it useful ? Not really . With all of the other drag devices , you should n't really need it . Is it recommended ? You would have to check the AFM . I looked in the <URL> and there is no limitation against it , but if you need to slip then that 's a strong indication of poor planning and an unstabilized approach which would require a go around . Even at higher altitudes , it is n't very comfortable for the passengers !
ymb1 is right - stealth and not styling determine the looks of both the F-22 and the F-35 . But there is more to it . Watch Lockheed test pilot Tom Morgenfeld talk about them in <URL> : The juicy bits are at 37:15 ' and at 43:35 ' into the video . Concerning the F-22 he says : Northrop built the F-23 exactly to what the Air Force asked for , while Lockheed built what the Air Force secretly wanted . And that was another F-15 , with similar manoeuvrability . Concerning the F-35 he says Lockheed 's goal was to build an aircraft which is at least as good as an F-18 around the ship . This means manoeuvrability to land on a carrier even from off-nominal conditions ; very forgiving to fly . By using the F-22 baseline , this manoeuvrability could be ensured . Now look at all three of them : <URL> McDonnell-Douglas F-15 Eagle ( picture <URL> ) <URL> Lockheed-Martin F-22 Raptor ( picture <URL> ) <URL> Lockheed-Martin F-35 Lightning II ( picture <URL> ) They look similar , do n't they ? Differences like a forward swept trailing edge and <URL> are due to stealth , as is <URL> .
Long story short is that the manufacturers instructions take precedence over all . <URL> requires that at each annual and 100 hr the compression be checked and that if there is " weak " compression further inspection of condition and tolerances of the engine have to be made . Now the term " weak " is kind of broad . <URL> states : If a cylinder has less than a 60/80 reading on the differential test gauges on a hot engine , and procedures in paragraphs 8-14b ( 5 ) ( i ) and ( j ) fail to raise the compression reading , the cylinder must be removed and inspected . However , it also states : This advisory circular ( AC ) contains methods , techniques , and practices acceptable to the Administrator for the inspection and repair of nonpressurized areas of civil aircraft , only when there are no manufacturer repair or maintenance instructions . So the gist of it seems to be that if the compression is below 60/80 on a hot engine IN GENERAL , then yes it needs to be removed and inspected , UNLESS the manufacturers instructions state otherwise . Keep in mind Advisory Circulars are guidelines and not regulatory in nature although they are usually used as best practice guides . There is a great AVweb article <URL> that has more in depth analysis .
You can sail a seaplane , but there are a lot of considerations . For starters , it makes a big difference as to whether you 're talking about a seaplane where the hull is in the water or a floatplane . A floatplane sitting up on its pontoons ( floats ) is more up in the wind , but it 's also more susceptible to rough water because of its higher center of gravity . My personal experience with sailing a floatplane was with a J-3 cub with an 85 horse engine on rivers and lakes . If we wanted to back onto the shore , we had to sail it since there was no reverse pitch propeller . For purposes of explanation on how to do it , let 's say that there 's no wind , but we 're on a river with enough current that the movement of the floatplane with the current when the engine is off gives the floatplane a wind relative to the water . Further let 's say the river is flowing from east to west , and we want to back onto a beach on the north shore . We land and stop the engine upstream from the beach . As the floatplane drifts it will weathervane into the wind . Thus , with the controls neutralized , we 'll be facing west and moving downstream in mid-river with the current , but not as fast the current because of the drag of the wind on the aircraft . The rule of thumb is that you point the tail towards the shore you wish to get to . We do that by applying left rudder and right aileron . Thus we have increased the drag on the left wing , which will swing the nose left , and the left rudder will also swing the nose left . Thus the nose is now pointed a few degrees toward the left shore ( south ) , the tail toward the right shore ( north ) . The airplane will then sail to the right shore ( north ) relative to the direction the aircraft nose is pointing because the the aircraft is moving backwards relative to the water . The trick in this instance is vary the control input to arrive at the downstream point you want . For practice , I used to have students sail to alternate sides of the river on Oregon 's Willamette River downstream from the city of Eugene .
Of course it is possible . But it does not improve the outcome . Swing wings were a fad of the Sixties . They never fulfilled their early promises , because the actuation mechanism is heavy . Variable sweep is only justifiable when the aircraft will fly both sub - and supersonically for extended periods . It turned out that the part of most missions which is spent at supersonic speeds is a lot smaller than anticipated in the Sixties . Just take the <URL> : Designed for supersonic penetration ( B-1A ) it became a subsonic low-lever terrain following strike aircraft ( B-1B ) . For stealth , <URL> is an important design principle . Making wing sweep variable is to throw this overboard , compromising the whole strategy of stealth . Also , the best stealthiness is only possible in subsonic flight - airframe heating at supersonic speed will broadcast the aircraft 's presence to everyone with a low-cost infrared sensor .
end question
start question
What does SVC TAR/SSR U/S mean ?
What does svc tar/ssr u/s mean ? Terminal area surveillance radar and secondary surveillance radar ( raw radar return and the secondary return from your transponder ) is unserviceable . If you were VFR you could practice the approaches without ATC radar vectoring , or ATC could give you a non-radar routing via an airway , then transition route , then the instrument approach procedure . In other words , the area for the time being ( NOTAM period ) has no radar . Non-radar procedures would be utilized . If the local ATC area was normally a radar environment and the radar equipment was taken down for preventive maintenance ( for example ) , providing separation for practice approaches may be more than they are willing to do . In the US ATC system , controllers are initially trained , tested , and qualified using a non-radar environment at the FAA Academy . Non-radar approach control is infrequently necessary in actual operation ( unless it is in an area where radar coverage is not available full time , which is becoming rare in the US ) . Call the local ATC Approach Control in the area you are referring to and see what services they can provide .
The automatic hookup uses a catchment area to mechanically force the pushrod into a receptacle to ensure a proper mechanical connection when the parts of the plane are connected . As an example , I have sketched below how the ailerons would be connected . The blue structure is the fuselage-side part , and the green structure is the wing-side part of the control linkage . The pushrod coming from the stick is connected to a trapezoidal cone which is hinged at the same point as the wing-mounted pivot lever which is moving the pushrod connected to the aileron . <URL> The opening of the trapezoidal cone is sized such that the end of the pivot lever will always be caught by it , regardless of the stick position and the aileron deflection . At the base where the end of the pivot lever rests when both parts are connected , the exact position and play between both can be adjusted , so the automatic connection will not have an adverse effect on handling . I once witnessed an aborted winch launch of the <URL> in which the linkages to the ailerons were interchanged . The pilot noticed the wrong operation of his ailerons before becoming airborne and released the rope quickly , but could not avoid a ground-loop , because he had pushed the low wing into the ground when trying to correct the plane 's attitude . I was glad not to have been in his position , because I am not sure I had reacted as quickly . Automatic connections would have made this mishap impossible .
The EPU of F-16 is fueled with a monopropellant hydrazine mixture , H-70 , which contains 70 % hydrazine ( $ N _ { 2 } H _ { 4 } $ ) and 30 % water , by weight . The main requirements for the EPU are that it should be simple , maintenance free , supply power immediately and consistently for the required time . Use of Hydrazine assures this while requiring careful handling . Basically , the catalytic decomposition of hydrazine produces ammonia , nitrogen and hydrogen . Exhuast Gases from EPU Turbine contain 40 % Ammonia , 17 % Nitrogen , 15 % Hydrogen and 28 % Water . $ 3N _ { 2 } H _ { 4 } \ rightarrow 4NH _ { 3 } + N _ { 2 } $ $ 4NH _ { 3 } \ rightarrow 2N _ { 2 } + 6H _ { 2 } $ $ 3N _ { 2 } H _ { 4 } \ rightarrow 4 ( 1-x ) NH _ { 3 } + 6xH _ { 2 } + ( 2x +1 ) N _ { 2 } $ where x is the fraction of the $ NH _ { 3 } $ disassociated . The water modifies the decomposition temperature ( the EPU reaches temperatures of ~ 870 $ ^ { \ circ } C$ ) , preventing thermal damage to the catalyst bed and the turbine parts . As the water removes heat , it is turned into steam which aids in powering the EPU . The EPU , using hydrazine spins up to approximately 75,000 rpm in 2-3 seconds ( The F-16 EPU starts within 2 sec . ) . It would take a much greater time if another fuel , like JP-8 were used . When required ( EPU runs normally on engine bleed air ) , hydrazine is <URL> , where the above reactions produce the gases to run the turbine/gearbox . The decomposition of hydrazine produces enough pressure , eliminating the need for a compressor , thus saving weight and also eliminating the need for an igniter , reducing complexity . For the given weight , it provides continuous operation for the required time . In F-16 , the EPU carries ~ 25l of hydrazine , which permits operation for about 10 minutes under normal load conditions and 15 minutes if the loads are less ( i.e. in ground ) . If any other form , ( like battery or cartridge ) were used , it would be difficult to have a long operational time without heavy increase in mass . For a combat aircraft , RAT is not an option . Also , a hydrazine powered EPU would work in any altitude or during maneuvering as it does not need an external oxidizer supply . References : Exhaust Gas Composition of the F-16 Emergency Power Unit by Harry J. Suggs et al. . Technical Order 00-105E-9 , USAF AFR 110-14 USAF Aircraft Accident Investigation Report . F-16 <URL> Thanks to @Peter for pointing out errors .
The purpose of the roll posts is to let the pilot have some control authority in hover and stabilization , along with controlling aircraft attitude . Basically , the <URL> used in the VTOL F-35 has three components connected by drive shaft ( along with the engine ) : The LiftFan at the front Three-bearing swivel module ( 3BSM ) , which turns the nozzle through 95 $ ^ \ circ $ , and Two Roll posts on either side of the fuselage . <URL> F-35 Liftfan system ; image from <URL> Basically , some bypass air is directed towards the ( individually adjustable ) roll post ducts to ensure stability during hover , which is done by the onboard computer . In this image , you can see the roll post doors opening on outboard sides of the MLG doors . <URL> F-35 roll post doors opening ; image from <URL> The 3-Bearing Swivel Module ( 3BSM ) has three segments driven by two actuators ( the first one drives the first segment , while the second one drives the second segment directly and the third one through an angle gearbox ) . The three segments are cut at an angle , so that when transferring from forward flight to hover , the central segment ends up with its longer edge at the top ( so that their sections with maximum length are on the same side ) , thus ' summing ' the bearing offset angles to give a 95 $ ^ \ circ $ deflection of the jetpipe nozzle in the downward direction . From <URL> : The three-bearing swivel nozzle , 3BSN , design uses three segments of the engine exhaust duct cut on an angle and joined by two airtight circular bearings . External motors drive geared teeth in these segments to rotate them to create the deflected thrust . The forward and aft segments always stay aligned with one another in the rotational axis . The center segment rotates through 180 degrees relative to them . The third bearing is on the back of the engine aft of the turbine stage and provides the ability to swivel the nozzle thrust axis in yaw at any pitch angle . <URL> Three bearing swivel module , from <URL>
The controller wants the base to have two distinct 90 ° turns , from downwind to base , and base to final . And not one continuous turn from downwind to final . And no shortcuts to be taken to shorten the downwind . It means the base will be slightly longer , and the downwind more parallel to the runway . The controller is buying time ( delaying the arrival ) to accommodate someone else . Top image is square-the-base , as opposed to the tight circular pattern -- which experienced pilots tend to prefer1 . ( Images above are a mere representation . ) Note : exact answer will depend on the plane 's exact location in the pattern . It 's one of those terms you wo n't find in a manual , like " <URL> " . It 's a shorter time extension than " extend downwind leg " : Further reading : <URL> , <URL> , 1 <URL> .
When departing from a towered field pilots may request something other than a " standard " departure . As an example , consider the noise abatement procedures for my home field shown below : <URL> When departing from Runway 14 the standard noise-abatement departure for light aircraft requires you to turn south ( heading 190 ) when you pass the departure end of the runway . This is obviously inconvenient if your destination is to the north , so you can request a northbound departure . If the tower can accommodate your request they will clear you for the non-standard departure , usually with the phrase " left turn-out approved " or " northbound departure approved " , and a heading if necessary .
Non-pilot astronauts are not required to become pilots . They fly in the backseat of T-38 's partially for transportation purposes , and partially for flight regime training . They are called " mission specialists " and since their job does not require piloting skills , there is no reason to train them as such . <URL> says " The T38 is used for flight readiness training to help the astronauts become adjusted to the flight environment , including the g-forces experienced on launch " and that non-pilots fly at least four hours per month in a T-38 . Pilot astronauts fly at least 15 hours per month to maintain proficiency . You can look up whether someone has a US Pilot 's license using the FAA 's <URL> . A quick search turns up several astronauts who have never been licensed . For example , the mission specialists on the final shuttle mission , <URL> and <URL> , are not pilots . That being said , I would n't be surprised if most , if not all , of the non-pilot astronauts got some stick time in a T-38 since it is a trainer with dual controls . Obviously the pilot and I 'm guessing the commander would be airforce pilots In the NASA vocabulary , commander is equivalent to what you would think of as pilot or captain , whereas pilot is equivalent to what you would think of as co-pilot . In the Apollo program , the commander landed the lunar module on the moon , not the " Lunar Module Pilot , " and in the shuttle program , the commander landed the shuttle , not the pilot . So , you are correct that both the commander and pilot must be pilots , and some of them did come from the Air Force , although US Navy was more common , and a few came from the Marine Corps . Almost all of them were test pilots . A few astronauts joined NASA with the qualifications to be pilot-astronauts , but only flew as mission specialists ( for example , <URL> and <URL> ) . I am honestly not sure whether or not NASA allowed them to fly the T-38 's ; however , the only photo evidence I can find shows them in the rear seat , which leads me to believe they were not allowed to fly solo . I have no idea if NASA still uses T-38 's NASA does still use T-38 's because NASA still sees a need for pilot astronauts in the future , and the pilots need a way to maintain flying proficiency . In the <URL> , four out of the eight were test pilots of some sort , although it 's unclear how many will be considered pilot-astronauts . There is <URL> that the number of T-38 's which NASA operates does appear to be shrinking , which is likely a reflection of a reduced astronaut corps size , budget constraints , and the fact that the aircraft fleet is about 50 years old . According to unconfirmed sources ( <URL> ) , the number of NASA T-38 's is expected to be reduced from 32 to 16 by 2015 . Other Space Shuttle-specific aircraft have been retired entirely , such as the Gulfstream II <URL> and the <URL> ( the latter was n't flown by astronauts ) .
Depends on the reasons the FAA had to justify the need for a 709 ride . If it was some kind of bureaucratic maneuver without justification for doing so and you pass the ride with flying colors , probably nothing . If there was a serious discrepancy in your airmanship which required a 709 ride to verify improvement on your part , it 's going to depend on whether it was a one time event or a trend in airmanship deficiency resulting in the check ride . In addition have there been further reports of deficiency in your airmanship after the 709 ride ? That will also have an effect on an employer 's judgment of you as a potential employee . Whatever the reasons for the 709 ride , an employer is going to see it , so be prepared to explain anything associated with it . Look at this from the employer 's perspective : I 'm going to put you in charge of a big , heavy multimillion dollar machine that you are going to pilot several miles off the ground at speeds close to that of sound . If anything goes wrong , you 're going to get killed , someone else on board is going to get killed , people on the ground are going to get killed and I 'm going to get sued , go bankrupt , end up in jail , or all three if your negligence can be traced back to me . Is there anything in your background which make me suspicious this is likely to happen if you are in my employ as a pilot ? The fact that you do make mistakes , possibly even serious ones , is not necessarily the issue here ; everybody makes mistakes . The last time you flew on an airliner the flight crew probably screwed something up . People with thousands of PIC hours learn something new on their next flight and it 's a mark of a good pilot that you can identify your own faults and fix them . The Blue Angels have a private saying amongst themselves that " We 've never flown a perfect airshow and we probably never will . But we strive for the perfect airshow each and every flight " . Striving for perfection as a personal motivator is the mark of a good airman and looks good on a resume , no matter how balls up some flight in your logbook was . The real issue here is do you have a recent or chronic history of uncorrected gross negligence or inability to handle the kinds of aircraft a potential employer flies which raises red flags as to your airmanship or trustworthiness . If you have a spotty record or recent 709 ride in your recent past , take a couple of years staying on with your current employer and do an outstanding job . Work on your airmanship and develop a stellar reputation with them as a pilot . That will go a long way to erasing the past , or at least mute its bite . Speaking of trustworthiness , DO NOT LIE TO A PROSPECTIVE EMPLOYER ABOUT A 709 RIDE OR ANY OTHER FAILED CHECKRIDE . Aviation is built upon an honor system and any kind of detected lying or deceitfulness on your part is an automatic fail with no second chances , no matter how squeaky clean your career is up to that point . If they ask about it , tell it like it was , no more , no less , and let the chips fall where they may . It will yield the best possible outcomes , even if you do n't get the job .
Remember what the purpose of the CAPS/BRS airframe parachute is : It 's a last-resort emergency measure to put the aircraft on the ground in a condition that is likely to be survivable for those onboard . Steerable parachutes add considerable complexity : Control lines would need to be routed into the cabin , and connected in such a way as to not interfere with the chute deployment under any circumstances . Assuming a suitable design could be devised to accomplish that a steerable parachute ( even for a single person ) requires quite a bit of training and skill to use . This is not something that can be adequately trained for in the case of the Cirrus airframe chute ( because pulling the chute on perfectly good aircraft to teach steering would be cost-prohibitive ) . Faced with the risks and complexity of a steerable chute or the relative simplicity and safety of a simple drag chute to decelerate the airframe prior to impact ( hoping you land in a suitable 40-by-40 foot square ) Cirrus and BRS opted for the latter . The result is a dead-simple " Pull the handle ! " system that 's proven very successful thus far .
The mean aerodynamic chord is only identical to the mean chord for rectangular wings . For tapered wings it is slightly longer . Why ? Because the mean aerodynamic chord is the mean chord of a rectangular wing that has the same pitch characteristics as the " real " wing . Pitch characteristics need to include pitch damping , and pitch damping grows with the square of the local chord . That is why the formula for the mean aerodynamic chord divides the square of the local chord by the wing area : $ $ \ text { MAC } = \ int _ { y = - \ frac { b } { 2 } } ^ { y = \ frac { b } { 2 } } { \ frac { c ^ 2 } { S } } dy $ $ Here $ b $ denotes wing span , $ y $ the spanwise coordinate and $ S$ the wing area . Since the chord is squared , deeper sections of the wing are overrepresented in the result . The resulting rectangular wing will have a larger area than the original , tapered wing but the same pitch damping ! In case of a delta wing , MAC will grow to be 2/3 of the root chord , and for an elliptical wing it will be 90.5 % of the root chord . The MAC has been invented to convert arbitrary wing planforms into much easier to calculate rectangular wings . By doing all calculations on the correctly sized rectangular version , the more complicated calculations on the real one could be avoided . However , this works only up to a point : if you want to calculate lift , you need a wing of equal area . if you want to calculate induced drag , you need a wing of equal span . if you wand to calculate pitch motion , you need a wing of the correct MAC . This rectangular wing can either have the same area or the same span as the real wing , but not both together , unless the real wing is rectangular , too . You are right , the two definitions you quote are not compatible . The rectangular wing can not have the same span than the real one , or its area and all associated forces and moments would be higher .
From page 5-1-7 , contractions in the <URL> : RVRT ... ... RVR Touchdown The full list is : RVR ... ... Runway Visual Range RVRM ... ... RVR Midpoint RVRR ... ... RVR Rollout RVRT ... ... RVR Touchdown On some runways there are multiple RVR sensors and different points along the runway , and these are the names given to identify the different locations .
On one hand , they know my heading and altitude , so I assume that I should continue straight on , entering the Class B in my climb and level out at 3500 feet , which I have done often with no consequences . This is what the controller wants you to do . It 's slightly sloppy phraseology - " Cleared into Bravo , climb and maintain 3500 " would be better . But what she said is not really ambiguous in any practical way . She would definitely not be expecting you to turn away , then climb , then turn back toward the B.
For runways built , refurbished or repainted after January 2008 , the number of bars in the Threshold Markings indicates the width of the runway , as is described in <URL> . Older runways may still use an outdated scheme . Runway threshold markings come in two configurations . They either consist of eight longitudinal stripes of uniform dimensions disposed symmetrically about the runway centerline , as shown in FIG 2-3-1 , or the number of stripes is related to the runway width as indicated in TBL 2-3-2 . A threshold marking helps identify the beginning of the runway that is available for landing . In some instances the landing threshold may be relocated or displaced . <URL> Runway Width | Number of Stripes ================================== 60 feet ( 18 m ) | 4 75 feet ( 23 m ) | 6 100 feet ( 30 m ) | 8 150 feet ( 45 m ) | 12 200 feet ( 60 m ) | 16 With regard to how to tell the difference between Configuration A and B , Advisory <URL> goes into significantly more detail . It states that The threshold markings may have either of the characteristics in ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) below , but after January 1 , 2008 , only those characteristics in ( 2 ) will be acceptable . The details : Configuration A . The runway threshold marking consists of eight longitudinal stripes of uniform dimensions spaced symmetrically about the runway centerline as shown in Figure 1 . The stripes are 150 feet ( 45 m ) long and 12 feet ( 3.6 m ) wide and spaced 3 feet ( 1 m ) apart , except for the center space , which is 16 feet ( 4.8 m ) . For runways less than 150 feet ( 45 m ) in width , the length of the markings is not changed , but the width of the markings , spaces between markings and distance of markings from the runway edge are changed proportionally . For runways greater than 150 feet ( 45m ) in width , the width of the markings and spaces between the markings may be increased proportionally or additional stripes may be added to both sides . The rule for Configuration A markings requires scaling the width of the stripes and their spacings ( and the outboard spacings from the runway edges ) proportionally , keeping the length fixed . For a runway 150 feet wide the Configuration A stripes are 12 ft wide with 3 ft spacings ( and an 8 ft spacing from the inboard stripe to the centreline , leaving 10 ft between the outboard and runway edge ) . The Configuration B stripes are given a fixed width of 5.75 ft with spacings of 5.75 ft also . If a Configuration A scheme were used on a narrow runway such that the stripes were equal to the width of the Configuration B stripes , the runway width would need to be about 72 feet ( 12 ft stripe width for a 150 ft runway width scaled to 5.75 ft for 71.875 ft ) . For a 72 ft wide runway bearing the Configuration A scheme the spacing between stripes would be reduced to slightly less than 1.5 ft. The difference between the schemes therefore ought to be apparent . and Configuration B. For this configuration , the number of stripes required is related to the runway width as indicated in Table 2 . The stripes are 150 feet ( 45 m ) long and 5.75 feet ( 1.75 m ) wide and spaced 5.75 feet ( 1.75 m ) apart except the center space is 11.5 feet ( 3.5 m ) as shown in Figure 1 . The outboard edges of the outboard stripes extend laterally to within 10 feet ( 3 m ) of the edge of a runway or to a distance of 92 feet ( 27 m ) on either side of a runway centerline , whichever results in the smaller lateral distance . This is further borne out by a <URL> which states : The purpose of this CERTALERT is to remind Airport Operators , Airport Certification Safety Inspectors , and Program Managers that paragraph 9 ( d ) states the threshold markings may have either the characteristics in ( 1 ) Configuration A or ( 2 ) Configuration B , but after January 1 , 2008 , only those characteristics in ( 2 ) Configuration B will be acceptable .
Depending on how long you are storing the plane , there are different options . Some planes may be used or sold in the future . They are just waiting for the market conditions to improve so that the owner can afford to operate it again , or someone else would be willing to buy it . Some planes are too old for anyone to want to buy them . In this case , they are most useful to the current owner , so they store them in case they will be useful in the future . Another possibility is spare parts . While the plane is stored , it can be slowly disassembled to provide parts for other aircraft still in service . Once all useful parts are removed , it will be chopped up into scrap metal . Recently , some new aircraft are being stored <URL> . There is also a case where the Air Force decided to purchase some planes , but later decided they did n't really need them . It 's cheaper to send them to storage than cancel the contract , so <URL> . You can rent hangar space somewhere to store the plane . This is much harder to do for larger planes , and hangar space is expensive and limited . However , it obviously offers the best conditions for the plane , where it can be protected from the weather . This is more likely to be a short term solution unless the plane is very important ( or the owner has deep pockets ) . Another option is the " <URL> : " <URL> Areas like the US southwest have very low humidity year round , which reduces the amount of corrosion on an airframe . Airplanes are designed to be outside most of the time anyway , so they will hold up pretty well . Windows may be covered to keep the internal temperatures down , and certain gaps may be covered as well . Small airplanes may be completely wrapped in plastic . Some examples of this include the boneyard at <URL> in Tucson , AZ , where the US military parks its planes , and nearby <URL> , where many civilian aircraft are stored .
As far as I know , the chimes work the same on all 737 NG ( and Classic ) versions , although as was mentioned in comments , how they are employed will vary from airline to airline . The two tone " high-low " chime described in the OP is the " crew call " system . The pilots have a button , the forward F/A station has one , and the aft F/A station has one . Regardless of which button is pushed , the " hi-low " chime is the same . In many , though not all , cases , this chime is a signal to the F/A 's to answer the interphone . If the pilots press their button , they 're asking to speak to the F/A 's ; if one F/A station presses the button , they 're asking to speak to the other F/A station . ( They can also press a different button that calls the cockpit , but passengers wo n't hear that chime . In the cockpit , we hear that " call " as the two-tone chime ; we do n't hear the chimes in the cabin unless we 're listening to PA audio . ) At one carrier , a single high-low chime may mean " answer the interphone , " while at another carrier , one chime might be used to mean " secure the cabin " while two chimes is " answer the interphone , " three chimes is " answer the interphone - urgent , " and so on . You 'll also hear chimes when the F/A Call Button above a passenger row is pressed ; this is a distinct chime ( a single , relatively high note ) . There is also a chime when the Fasten Seatbelt sign is turned on or off , this is again distinctive , a single lower note . Note that you wo n't necessarily hear the chimes when the interphone is in use ; it 's simply a " Hey ! " call to the Flight Attendants in the cabin . While it 's often followed by a conversation on the interphone , they two are separate systems and one can be used without the other .
Sorry , but windmills approach certified GPS systems do not work that way : A GPS approved for IFR navigation and approaches , like a Garmin 430W or GTN650 or an Avidyne IFD440 , are more than just an approved position source such as what 's included in the NGT-9000 transponder . They have an approved navigation database and interface with ( or provide the equivalent of ) a Course Deviation Indicator ( CDI ) . You ca n't just suck position data out of the NGT-9000 and fly around using it because while that device has an approved high-quality position source it does n't have an IFR-approved navigation database , so there 's no way to take that GPS data ( your position as a point in space ) and relate it to known waypoints ( VORs , NDBs , airports , intersections , etc. ) in a way the FAA considers satisfactory as a primary means of navigation . You can take the GPS data from it and interface it with an iPad - <URL> - to use for enhanced situational awareness , which is a huge win , but that 's not enough to get you to file GPS flight plans : You would be limited to filing flight plans based on your other installed primary navigation instruments ( VOR , ADF , DME ) .
With a pressure fueling system , rather than fueling through holes in the tops of the wings , a fuel truck or fuel hydrant is used to push fuel into the airplane through a fitting at about 50 psi . The fuel fitting is generally in the right wing . A fueling control panel allows the fueler to fill the tanks to the amount called out by the flight plan . These large aircraft still have an overwing fueling port for those times when the pressure fueling system is inoperative . There is nothing to prevent fuel vapors from escaping to atmosphere .
Outlook VFR is usually found in the so called " Area Forecast " . It is the last part of the portion which describes clouds and weather , which could affect VFR operations . The area forecast for every region is valid for 12 hours , followed by a 6 hour categorical outlook . There are three types of outlooks , VFR , IFR and MVFR ( marginal VFR ) . As mentioned in <URL> : A ceiling less than 1,000 feet and/or visibility less then 3 miles is considered IFR . Marginal VFR areas are those with ceilings from 1,000 to 3,000 feet and/or visibility between 3 and 5 miles . Everything " better " ( as in higher ceiling and/or visibility ) is considered VFR . Here is an extract from an Area Forecast : The first part is an extract from the Heading Section . here you find the time for which the Clouds and Weather part as well as the Outlook part is valid . The second part consist of the mentioned Clouds and Weather as well as the Outlook . I 'm not going to decipher the whole thing now , but here is a short explanation : You can see the more detailed forecast , valid from the time of loading the Area Forecast to , which means the 6th of the month , 21:00 Zulu time . After that , from so from the 6th at 21:00 Zulu until the 7th at 03:00 Zulu , the outlook is what counts . In this case it is VFR until the 7th of the month at 02:00 Zulu , where showers and thunderstorms ( in connection with rain ) are expected . Conclusion : The outlook gives a general idea what the weather will be like up to 6 hours after the forecast part of the Are Forecast . This can help in flight planning . For more information about VFR refer to <URL> .
The purpose of trimming is to free the pilot from having to exert a constant pressure on the controls . This is often used to maintain straight and level flight , however trimming can also be used at any phase of flight - for example to maintain a constant rate of climb or descent . The most basic form , as found on most light aircraft is elevator trim . Usually operated by a wheel , it moves the elevator up or down by a small amount in the same sense as the yoke ( back to go up , forward to go down ) . This can be used to settle the aircraft into straight flight . Another form of trim is rudder trim . Often found in larger light aircraft and twin-engined aircraft it can be used to adjust for a crosswind to keep the aircraft flying straight . On multi-engine aircraft it can also be used to trim out the differential thrust caused by one engine failing .
A number of 737s are fitted with forward airstairs ( and aft ones too ) . The Boeing Airplane Planning Document gives the airstairs opening as 0.41 X 1.12 m , while the airstairs can be folded to less than 2.5 m length . This should give the volume occupied by the airstairs . <URL> Image from Boeing 737 <URL> document . According to an article in <URL> , the total system weighs in around 200 lbs : Aircraft such as the DC9 , MD80 , MD90 , and 737 aircraft have had a long enough history that many of them were built with the forward passenger air stair assembly . Many aircraft were also converted to non-airstair versions Ñ a 200 + lb . weight savings for the operator .
end question
start question
What is the purpose of Runway Grooving ?
What is the purpose of runway grooving ? The channels help to remove water from the runway . They also provide an area for the water to build up . With out these channels the water runs the risk of forming a thin surface covering the runway which can be very dangerous . As mentioned by john here in the comments this is usually known as hydroplaning and is the same as what happens to a car . How does the airport drainage system work ? This is a bit of a guess but I assume they work like any other road drainage system and it will depend on where the airport is located . <URL> that you may find of some interest . Here is <URL> , it 's a bit long but should cover what you are looking for . Why do airports remove rubber from the runway ? Tires obtain the best friction when they come in direct contact with the runway surface . Excess tire rubber that wears off and sticks to the runway can affect the tire/runway interactions . <URL> covers the main points pretty well .
Well , the SDR dongle paid off - mystery solved . It turns out , the signal was actually at 153.2 MHz , but was somehow breaking through into 110.515 MHz on my handheld scanner . The signal originates from a high power pager transmitter using the FLEX protocol . As this is plain text , I decoded some of it using an excellent open source application called PDW , and have listed it below for reference and general interest ( sensitive information has been redacted ! ) .
Redundancy , particularly during <URL> operations . How it works depends on the specific airplane type . In the most advanced systems with triple ( or more ) flight guidance computers ( FGCs ) , a " voting " concept is used during critical operations like autoland . All 3 computers calculate their commands independently , and vote on what to do . The middle value , or sometimes the average of the 2 " most similar " values , is then passed to the flight control actuators . In this way , if any one of the computers fails and starts producing garbage commands , those erroneous commands will not be selected ( they are automatically rejected by the voting scheme ) . A monitoring system can also detect a failed computer in this way and take it offline , allowing " fail-active " functionality -- an autoland can continue on the 2 remaining functional computers . Less complex aircraft , and aircraft without autoland , still sometimes have 2 FGCs , but do not support fail-active operation . In these systems only one of the two computers is active or selected at any given time . A transfer switch in the cockpit allows the pilot to transfer control from one computer to the other if one fails . And it 's not just airliners . Business jets commonly also have dual FGCs , and in recent times even small general aviation airplanes like the Diamond DA-42 have dual systems ( Garmin G1000 in dual-GFC700 configurations ) . <URL> ( click for high res version ) shows a Cessna Citation CJ business jet with dual Garmin autopilots . At the top of the PFD , notice there is a small green arrow pointing left ; this indicates the left FGC is currently selected . The photo also shows the XFR ( transfer ) button on the mode select panel , top center , just underneath the master caution/warning annunciator panel . Pushing this button would switch to the right ( # 2 ) FGC and change the arrow on the PFD to point to the right . These indications are fairly representative of other dual-FGC systems . <URL> of a Hawker 800 with Rockwell Collins Pro Line 21 . You can see the same arrow on the PFDs . In this aircraft the transfer switch is labeled " AP XFR " and is again on the autopilot panel just underneath the glareshield at the top of the panel toward the left hand side . And finally <URL> with 3 FGCs and full autoland capability . It 's a bit hard to read in this photo , but just above the autopilot disengage bar ( the " spacebar " looking thing on the right side of the mode select panel just under the glareshield ) the 3 buttons are labeled " A/P ENGAGE " , " L " " C " and " R " for the left , center and right FGCs . During an autoland all 3 would be selected and illuminated .
I never landed at Courchevel , but did some aerobatic training in <URL> in the Giant Mountains of Silesia . What I learned was : A proper approach looks steeper than normal because the field inclination is steeper relative to the plane 's attitude . You need to flare sooner for two reasons : The sink speed relative to the rising ground is higher than normal , and The amount of pitch change needed to flare is larger . Even with airplanes which have a strong ground effect ( and where too fast a touchdown speed will normally result in a very long float ) the flare was short , as was the rollout distance . Do n't let speed bleed off too early , but stay on your approach speed until you are low enough to flare . Airports with slope sit on the sides of mountains . In many cases , the approach is already over rising terrain . When landing with a headwind , the wind will create a downdraft along the approach so the sink speed during the approach will be higher than normal . For glider pilots this is the biggest danger - once you are too low , you will hit the ground short of the runway . Most inclined runways show a variation in inclination along their length . This means that the relative sink speed and the necessary pitch change for a successful flare will vary with the touchdown point . Stay alert , no landing is routine ! The landing configuration and approach speed were not different from that on regular airports with level runways . Different was mostly the height at which the flare is begun . Also , at first I needed getting used to staying on my approach speed until I was low enough to flare - you need more energy to keep the airplane flying until it is level with the ground ( i.e. climbing uphill ! ) , so the final approach and flare must be executed precisely for a good landing . When I saw the runway at Zar for the first time I thought the location is sheer madness . After a few landings I learned to appreciate the benefits : Very short roll-outs and planes would land uphill only , so they come to a stop where the ( downhill ) take-off run could begin . But the approaches need to be precise ( we did mixed motor and glider flying ) especially with gliders if you want to keep your fellow glider students happy .
" Wilco " is short for the phrase " <URL> , " meaning that the speaker will follow the instructions to which they are replying . <URL> places the origin at 1938 , some time after the invention of radio , likely in military usage . Although the phrase " roger wilco " is sometimes used , <URL> since the " roger " ( <URL> ) is implied .
When you have the thrust levers of , say , a 747 all the way back to idle , the airplane still has enough power to move . In fact , you will have to use the brakes to keep it from taxiing too fast . If you did n't use the brakes , it would finally accelerate to somewhere around 45 knots or so , far too fast for taxiing , but much too slow to take off . At the idle power setting , relatively little noise is produced by the engines . To take off , if the 747 were at max gross , you would have to accelerate to around 180 knots . That would require a power setting approaching the maximum , depending on the length of the runway . The noise produced by the engines is relative to the amount of power they 're producing . Hence , taxiing at idle produces little noise relatively speaking , on the runway taking off a whole lot of noise .
A " circle-to-land " maneuver is basically a low-altitude traffic pattern - albeit one that you arrived at by being guided in on some instrument approach . The magic that makes this low ( and possibly abbreviated ) pattern possible is that the runway ends at airports with circling approaches have protected ( obstacle free ) airspace around them , which looks something like this : ( A more detailed explanation of the size of the circling approach area can be found <URL> . ) Since it 's basically a traffic pattern my understanding is you treat it as such , and that as long as you stay in visual contact with the airport and within the protected airspace ( by visually judging your distance from the field , and knowing your altitude ) you 're unlikely to hit anything , and you can do all your usual pattern maneuvering as long as you can *** visually * be sure you 're within the pretty blue part of the image above ( your GPS cant help you here ) . To see what this means for an example approach with some turns , consider my liberally-stolen and slightly-marked-up diagram below . If you lose contact with your intended runway end for a few seconds because of the turn/bank required at point " A " that 's OK : as long as you can still maintain visual contact with the airport/runway environment when you roll out ( say by looking out the back window ) , and as long as you can remain clear of clouds , and can maintain visual clearance from any potential obstacles you may continue the approach . If you 're flying out and on the leg from " A " to " B " and all of a sudden you look back out the window and the airport is gone in the haze and clouds , you need to go missed : You 've lost the airport/runway environment , and can no longer judge your distance to stay in the " safe " airspace . Similarly if you 're in a high-wing aircraft and your turns at " B " and " C " briefly obscure the airport while you 're turning you can still continue the approach - if you 've any doubt where the airport is just pick up the wing like you would in a VFR pattern ( and if the airport is n't there like it 's supposed to be go missed ! ) Regarding your bird scenario , that 's an interesting one that I do n't think is covered in any diagrams , but if a flock of birds causes you to maneuver in such a way that you lose contact with the airport ( and you ca n't just pick up a wing and have it be right where you expected it to be ) you 're obviously going to have to abandon the approach and go missed . It 's the equivalent of the airport disappearing in the haze on that A-to-B leg . Honestly though , if a flock of birds shows up and hangs out in a way that requires you to start maneuvering around them while you 're trying to shoot a circling approach in real IFR you may want to just go missed anyway ( given the odds this probably wo n't cost you too many approaches ) . In a real world situation with poor visibility , possibly precipitation , and likely a cloud ceiling really close to your altitude , do you really want to try to be maneuvering down low to avoid some stupid bird that could n't even be bothered to call the tower ? Would n't you feel much better pointing the aircraft in a generally " upward " direction and following the nice friendly needle again for a little while ? I 'm just starting my IFR training , but I think I 'd feel better with that option :-)
I do n't know if it is official , but across Europe , Middle East , Asia , and north Africa I hear using " turnpad " , and many ATC in these regions provide directions like " bactrack via turnpad and continue taxi via taxiway A " , that means go ahead to turnpad bactrack and vacate runway via taxiway A.
I ca n't speak directly to the ICON A5 as I neither own nor fly one , but for every aircraft I 'm familiar with the manufacturer 's " book numbers " are generous theoretical values - for example , they typically assume flying perfectly straight-and-level in a no-wind condition , and getting the best possible fuel economy performance from the powerplant . The Icon folks are openly honest about this on their specs page : <URL> , and range is certainly " Performance " in my book . Personally I have no doubt that the A5 could manage 300NM under the conditions for which its designers did the math to arrive at that number - it 's a slick little plane with a fuel-sipping engine - but they may have done a " to empty tanks " calculation ( leaving you to account for the <URL> ) , and in the real world the 15-knot headwind you run into will substantially reduce your range ( or , conversely , you can fly in the other direction and increase it ) . As with all aircraft your mileage will , quite literally , vary depending on the day and direction of flight .
Both leading and trailing edge sweep help to reduce compressibility effects . For simple estimates , quarter chord sweep is used . This is more influenced by the leading edge , but the trailing edge is still involved with 25 % of the total value . If we look at the particular influence of trailing edge sweep , it is mostly found in the effectiveness of flaps and ailerons . Their effectiveness is proportional to the cosine of hinge line sweep . However , flaps at the end of a long wing chord will create a high pitching moment , requiring a big tail . Most delta wings use simpler , less effective flaps with less moment change . In supersonic aircraft trailing edge sweep helps to reduce sonic boom intensity . In the end , trailing edge sweep is mostly an outcome of the <URL> , similar to <URL> . The structural engineer will want to have a deep root airfoil in order to have enough wing height for a stiff spar or the landing gear without increasing relative thickness too much , and the aerodynamicist wants to reduce wetted area , since it will create friction drag and increase wing mass . In the end , all have to agree to a compromise .
Some <URL> databases are <URL> and require a USB port . Since navigational databases are updated frequently and require a simple way to make an update , USB ( or memory card slots ) are generally used to allow for rapid and easy updates without having to remove any panels . In some cases the port may be in the avionics bay however that is usually easily accessed as well . It should be noted that a recent change in regulation now allows pilots to update nav data , <URL> . Was it really intended for charging devices like phones ? That seems naively insecure . Generally these ports are not for charging but the basic design of a USB port more or less always allows you to charge from it because of the nature of the port . The security on the ports is more about cockpit security . In most cases the security lies in making it difficult to get into the cockpit in the first place . It is often assumed now that if you are in the cockpit you should be there . There is of course many questions this opens up some of which have been answered here or would be good to ask about . As iPads become more common in the cockpit for navigation and the such USB ports are <URL> for charging but this seems to be more common in GA planes currently .
Since you seem not to be concerned about the usability of this hypothetical electric aircraft , let 's make some simplifications : The aerodynamics are so good that it does not create any drag . This is completely unrealistic but helps a lot to simplify things . Structure , controls and propulsion are so advanced that they leave one third of the take-off mass for batteries . Who needs payload anyway ? Efficiency is 80 % . Not even electric propulsion can be lossless . Energy storage is the best current technology has to offer . This would be about <URL> of battery for non-rechargeable lithium cells . To accelerate a battery of the mass m to a speed v needs an amount of energy $ $ E _ \ text { kin } = \ frac { m } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 $ $ Flying Mach 2 at sea level is impractical ; it helps to climb to at least 6.000 m ( 20.000 ft ) to do so . This adds potential energy : $ $ E _ \ text { pot } = m \ cdot g \ cdot h $ $ Conveniently , the result is independent of mass , so the potential maximum speed is $ $ v _ \ text { max } = \ sqrt { 2 \ cdot \ frac { 1 } { 3 } \ cdot0 .8 \ cdot1 { , } 800 { , } 000 \ \ mathrm { m ^ 2 \ s ^ { -2 } } - g \ cdot h } $ $ If we solve this for 6000 m , the speed at the end of the acceleration is 949.3 m/s , which is already <URL> . If you prefer to use rechargeable batteries ( 1 MJ/kg ) , the maximum speed drops to Mach 2.15 . If you start to add a reasonable figure for drag , you wo n't even make it to the speed of sound before the batteries are empty . Currently , propellers are the most sensible way to convert electric energy into thrust , and large , low-speed propellers are the most efficient type . If you think to drive a conventional compressor with an electric motor , its subsonic efficiency is already far worse than the assumed 80 % . Even its mass is <URL> with conventional gas turbines .
In general , the engine life is measured in terms of two things : Flight hours Flight cycles A takeoff and a landing counts as a flight cycle . The most important concept in engine life is the Time Between Overhaul ( TBO ) , which is basically the manufacturer recommended time period after which the engine is stripped down , checked thoroughly and required parts replaced . After overhaul , the engine is usually cleared till the next TBO . An overhauled engine is theoretically as good as a new one and comes with the same life ( TBO ) and warranty , if applicable . Airline engines ( for example the Rolls Royce Trent series ) usually have TBOs of over 15000 hours . The record for maximum time for an engine on wing ( i.e. use in aircraft before removal for overhaul ) is well over 40,000 hours . The life of an engine is given by the manufacturer and are different for different engines . However , the engine life depends on a number of parameters and is usually different for various engine components . The rotating components have life limits which are less than the engine and are replaced periodically , mostly during the TBO . For example , the turbine blades are replaced after a set number of turbine cycles and/or after a set number of hours , which are lesser than the others . In addition , most rotating components ( compressors , turbines ) are periodically subjected to checks , and are replaced if found damaged . In case of abnormal operations , some parts are required to be replaced . For example , if one engine is required to give excessive thrust ( for example in case of One Engine Inoperative ) , the engine is subjected to thorough checks similar to TBO . Airline engines are usually serviced ( Overhauled at TBOs ) and maintained till they are deemed not good to use or not economical to ( service/repair and ) operate anymore . Most of the engine manufacturers employ condition based health monitoring programs , which helps them to plan when to service and repair the engine . As a result , the engine life varies based on its condition .
Short answer If a single range should be stated for ACAS II , it would be the reliable range of 14 NM , even if targets can displayed by current TCAS II up to 30/40 NM . Reliable means here : a track can be established with a probability of at least 90 per cent for aircraft within the surveillance range . The reliable range of 14 NM is achievable with a ground plane antenna a power of 250 W and a Mode S sensitivity of -- 74 dBm . Diversity of ranges There are different range values that can be considered : Overall pulse detection range is 30 NM . Reliable surveillance range is 14 NM . Recommended RA range is 12 NM . Guaranteed range is 4.5 NM . The range must be limited because it impacts the number of transponder addresses to be stored for a given transponder density as well as the number of interrogations within a volume , hence radio spectrum use and reliability . ACAS II recommendations by ICAO ACAS II ICAO recommendations are found in <URL> , Airborne Collision Avoidance System ( ACAS ) Manual : Interrogation pulse detection range is 14 NM for Mode A/C and 30 NM for Mode S . The equipment should have the capacity for surveillance of any mix of Mode A/C or Mode S targets up to at least 30 aircraft . Surveillance must be reliable within 14 NM , with an aircraft density of 0.3 aircraft per square NM within 5 NM ( and up to 142 aircraft within 30 NM ) . The equipment should assess as possible collision threats only those targets within a maximum range of 12 NM . No target outside this range should be eligible to generate an RA . As density increases , reliability decreases . If the overall target count ever exceeds the surveillance capacity at any range up to 14 NM , the long-range targets may be dropped . The system reliability is guaranteed within the minimum range of 4.5 NM . This radius is deemed adequate for providing protection for up to 500 kt encounter . TCAS version 7.1 TCAS II is the sole implementation of ACAS II which fully comply with ACAS II . The reference ( paying ) documents are : <URL> ( RTCA ) and <URL> ( EUROCAE ) . From the EASA document <URL> TCAS II can simultaneously track up to 30 aircraft , within a nominal range of 14 NM for Mode A/C targets and 30 NM for Mode S targets . In implementations that allow for the use of the Mode S extended squitter , the normal surveillance range may be increased beyond the nominal 14 NM . However , this information is not used for collision avoidance purposes . This is confirmed in FAA document <URL> TCAS has a requirement to provide reliable surveillance out to a range of 14 nmi and in traffic densities of up to 0.3 aircraft per square nautical mile . [ ... ] TCAS can simultaneously track up to 30 transponder-equipped aircraft within a nominal range of 30 nmi .
The squawk code is assigned by Air Traffic Control to the aircraft and is used for radar identification purposes . It is a 4 digit octal number ( each digit has a value in the range [ 0-7 ] ) . The flight crew enters the assigned squawk code into the transponder control panel and the radar extracts the code using a Mode-A interrogation ( or UF5 / UF21 interrogation in case of a Mode S radar / transponder ) . The extracted squawk code can then be used to correlate the radar reply with an aircraft 's flight plan . A number of squawk codes are reserved for generic purposes and emergencies . These codes are used in emergency , or when no flight plan correlation is needed . Some generic codes are : 1000 - Conspicuity code signalling the Flight Data Processing system to use Mode-S Aircraft ID for flight plan correlation . ( Primarily in Europe ) 1200 - Visual Flight Rules standard squawk code ( USA &amp; Canada ) 2000 - Used when entering a Secondary Surveillance Area and no code has yet been assigned . 7000 - Visual Flight Rules standard squawk code ( ICAO , USA &amp; Canada use 1200 instead ) 7500 - Unlawful interference / hijack ( ICAO , worldwide ) 7600 - Radio communication lost ( ICAO , worldwide ) 7700 - General emergency ( ICAO , worldwide )
What does your POH/AFM says ? Ignoring winds and other factors , it depends on effective runway length , not just runway length . If you have a runway long ( really long ) enough , you can takeoff/land in either direction . As mentioned <URL> : ... advantage or disadvantage of a sloped runway is that a 1 % runway gradient -- an increase or decrease in altitude of 10 ' for every 1000 ' of runway length -- is equivalent to a 10 % increase or decrease in effective runway length ... Example : Runway length is 1500 ' with 3 % up-slope gradient Landing uphill on it will give us an effective runway length of almost 2000 ' ( 1500 ' x 1.3 = 1950 ' ) . Landing downhill on it will give us an effective runway length of just over 1000 ' ( 1500 ' x 0.7 = 1050 ' ) . Just for reference , the runway ( 6 : uphill ; 24 : downhill ) at Lukla Airport has 12 % gradient and is 1500 ' long . Effective Runway Lengths ( using the formula above ) Hence , hypothetically speaking , if runway 24 is 48,400 ' long with no wind , A380 <URL> takeoff too .
The <URL> as : Any occurrence at an aerodrome involving the incorrect presence of an aircraft , vehicle or person on the protected area of a surface designated for the landing and take off of aircraft . So no .
I have no idea about ICAO but as far as I can tell from the <URL> , there 's no general requirement to have any runway or approach lighting at all ( see below for an example ) , although some specific approach types ( like CAT II/III ILS ) do require it . Where there is lighting , it 's used to reduce the visibility minimums , but the calculations assume no approach lighting by default . This is from 3-1-2 ( c ) ( emphasis mine ) : Approach lighting systems extend visual cues to the approaching pilot and make the runway environment apparent with less visibility than when such lighting is not available . For this reason , lower straight-in ( not applicable to circling ) visibility minimums may be established when standard or equivalent approach lighting systems are present . The TERPS concept seems to be that the approach minimums can be reduced depending on the lighting type available . Section 3-3-2 has an example of calculating visibility minimums when there are no approach lights available . As for a specific example , <URL> has three approaches ( 2 RNAV ( GPS ) , 1 VOR ) but - as far as I can tell - no lighting of any kind . The chart supplement says : Rwy 02 -- 20 marked with rwy cones . Rwy 13 -- 31 marked with cones and OTS lgts . Many missing . As you might expect , the approaches are not authorized at night :-) Finally , part 121/135 passenger flights ca n't land at night unless the runway is lit ( <URL> , <URL> ) , so any airport that handles those flights will have runway lighting at least , and almost certainly approach lighting too .
<URL> has a max output of 5W compared with their <URL> . Unfortunately they do n't quote effective ranges on their website ( and its highly dependent on many factors anyway ) . In any case you are limited by line of sight which depending on the plane you are flying ( and how high up you are ) may be more of an issue . There is some <URL> and generally people say the work pretty well . Keep in mind also that the aircrafts installed radios have their antenna that are mounted on the exterior of the plane which has an effect on the reception and transmission ability . Using a hand held inside a plane may in practice yield different results even if it has the same transmission specs as an installed radio .
From a totally practical standpoint , let 's say you 're in a small tricycle gear aircraft with a freely castoring nose wheel ( or a tail dragger ) and you 're starting your takeoff roll in a calm wind . When you bring the power up , the aircraft is going to want to turn left ( <URL> ) , in other words to yaw about its vertical axis in a counter-clockwise direction , and head for the grass off the left side of the runway . You counteract that adverse yaw by using right rudder to keep the airplane straight . Initially you might have to use some right brake as well until there 's sufficient air moving past the rudder . If you had a steerable nose gear , you would n't need the right brake . You reach flying speed , apply up elevator , and lift off . As the airplane rotates about its lateral axis , there 'll be some additional adverse yaw as a result of that rotation ( again another question ) . Even if you had a steerable nose gear , that would now be useless as the nose gear is no longer on the ground . Your means of continuing to fly straight ahead is to counter the adverse yaw with rudder , and you would continue to use right rudder as you climb out . If you do n't , you 'll start turning left . You reach the altitude you want , level off , and trim for level flight straight ahead . Then you decide you want to turn left . You start the turn briskly with left aileron , but you forgot to use any rudder . If you were looking at the ball on the bottom of the turn and bank indicator , you would see it shoot left . If you had used left rudder while initiating the turn , that would n't have happened . You would have started a coordinated turn . Now you 're coming back to the airport , and there 's a crosswind from the left . You decide you want to counter that crosswind by slipping into it . In other words , you want the airplane to travel sideways at a speed that matches the crosswind while still having your nose pointing straight down the runway . So , you lower the left wing and to keep the airplane from turning , you use right rudder to keep the airplane aligned with the runway . You match the crosswind by adding or decreasing your bank . There are other uses of rudder , and especially in aerobatics . I once flew a few loads of skydivers . The jumpmaster sat behind me , and to help him in positioning for the drop zone , he wanted flat turns . In other words , he wanted the airplane turned while keeping the wings level . So , if he wanted a left turn , that meant left rudder and right aileron . Uncomfortable from a pilot 's standpoint . Finally , back in the 1960s when I was working on my instrument rating , I had an instructor who taught that the best way to track a localizer in close was to use rudder only for small corrections . Personally , I do n't like that method , but it 's one way of doing things . A useful thing , the rudder . You need to be able to directly control movement about all three aircraft axes .
end question
start question
Where is the term * pro rata * defined as it is used in 61.113 ( c ) ?
in law generally means according to a calculation or apportionment formula - in the context of the FARs that formula is generally assumed to be $ \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { nOccupants } \ right ) $ as Hugh noted . I actually went on a dive through <URL> on how they deal with the pro rata bit and found nothing applicable to this situation , so what follows is an interpretation crafted out of my own slightly deranged mind , but it seems sensible to me . Interestingly while digging around I found nothing in the FARs or interpretations that would seem to preclude <URL> for pro rata share than " divide by the number of people in the plane " , but neither is there anything I can find to support doing so , and I imagine it would be much harder to justify to your local FSDO if questions came up . For the sake of simplicity ( and our collective sanity ) let 's stick with " simple division " as the formula . The FARs specify that the pilot may not pay less than their pro rata share of operating expenses associated with the flight . So , if we have 4 occupants of the aircraft ( Mom , Dad , Baby , and Pilot ) and they go for a hundred-dollar hamburger the simple division method says pilot can not pay less than one-fourth of the operating expenses associated with the flight . If we say the expenses work out to be \ $ 100 ( for the sake of easy math ) the pilot has to pay at least \ $ 25 . The FAA does n't much care where the rest of the money comes from because it 's implicit in the regulations that the pilot is n't keeping it ( the money would be going into the hands of the FBO for fuel , oil , ramp fees , etc. ) -- Mom &amp; Dad could pay $ 37.50 each ( covering themselves plus the baby ) or split it up between themselves in any other way they wish and this is still acceptable under the regulations as long as the pilot has paid their pro rata share of the expenses . The pilot can certainly pay more than the simple-divison pro rata share of expenses ( and generally that 's the most equitable option - figure out who 's paying , divide by that number , and make sure the pilot is in the " paying " group to stay on the right side of the regulations ) . In your example you would split the cost up among the three adults ( each paying $ 33.33 , and the pilot generally kicking in the extra penny ) . The same logic in both of these arguments would apply if we were n't talking about a baby , but rather a third friend that you all decided to treat to a trip .
The current QNH at an airport is included in METARs so you can grab it form there . There are a few online services to retrieve the METAR automatically , such as <URL> ( using Vienna airport as an example ) . The latest METAR when I wrote this answer was : which shows a QNH of 1012 . Note that depending on the country the format may vary slightly , but in Austria ( and European countries ) you should always find a value in the report .
Yes , it is commonly used , especially in large complex airspaces . If two VHF direction finders are installed at sufficient distance from each other , they allow the ATC system to triangulate the position of a VHF transmission . This position is then indicated on the air taffic situation display , which helps the air traffic controller to quickly correlate the transmission to the transmitting aircraft , often before the callsign has been transmitted . The controller still has to crosscheck the callsigns , but it helps to reduces workload . <URL>
I lived and flew in North Dakota for about three years . While I was there , people talked about ( and I experienced ) the delightful mixture of snow and dirt called snirt . It can be the result of plowing sanded roads , and also can be caused by the high winds that come out of Canada blowing dirt from fields onto areas still covered in snow . <URL> . I have a feeling that 's what was described by your friend . It appears in Wikipedia 's <URL> , but as far as I am aware it is not an FAA or NOAA term .
The term is not " approved " , it is the complete phrase . This is the standard FAA term for what was previously called either or , and means " separation in accordance with the applicable minima in [ <URL> ] " . The separation minima are further defined in the JO 7110 family of FAA Air Traffic Control orders , which you can find linked from the page above .
The problem you 're having is that there is no standard definition of dots . There are various standards that come into play and I 'll try to explain how they fit together . As you noted + / - 0.175 DDM is specified as " full-scale deflection . " This is in Annex 10 and , as mins noted , DO-192 for glideslope . It 's also in DO-195 for localizer . But what is 0.175 DDM and why is it referenced as " full-scale " ? DDM is the Difference in Depth of Modulation of the 90 and 150 Hz audio tones that comprise the LOC and GS signals . The significance of 0.175 DDM is it defines the value at the limits of the course deviation display ( full scale ) . Annex 10 requires the installation of an ILS requires ( for most runways ) the radiation pattern of the localizer to place full scale at the threshold of the runway at + / - 350 feet . With the LOC antenna at the other end of the runway , this sets the angular deviation guidance for the approach . This standard means that shorter runways will have a wider LOC beam than a longer runway . There are minimum and maximum angular widths , so very short runways ( < ~ 3000 ft ) will all have the same maximum width and very long runways will have the minimum width . Back to the ILS MOPS ( DO-192 and DO-195 ) . The MOPS has a standard for display of deviation in terms of centering accuracy ( 0.0 DDM ) and linearity of the display out to " full-scale " . Even if the display is n't part of the ILS receiver it 's bound by the MOPS . In this case ( which is common today ) , the radio is tested to comply at the " output to the display " and must have an interface spec to allow a display to be interfaced . The display - even if it 's part of a glass PFD - has to meet the MOPS . And after installation they have to be tested to show they work together within the spec . But what about the dots ? The MOPS do n't specify what the display looks like . The requirement is that the pilot can discern the center , the limits , and that the indication is linear within a few percent . Dots are not specified or required . You identified a generic convention of 2 dots at full scale . I would agree this is common on air transport aircraft . But the GA aircraft I learned to fly in all had 4 dots on the CDI at full scale . And to be even more confusing , many of the new RNP deviation displays do n't have any dots , just a bar with a center and end marks with the steering line on top . In over 20 years of working in avionics , I 've never found anyone who could say definitively why 2 dot displays became standard . My suspicion is that flight standards ( and airline op specs ) typically call for a missed approach if the deviation exceeds half scale . The 2 dot display puts a dot at that point and at full scale . It makes for good human factors . Getting the needle inside the outside dot means you 've captured the signal . After getting on course , a deviation out to the first dot means it 's time to go missed .
Update Everything in the second section ( my original answer ) used to be true ( well , except for the first statement ) , but does n't consider that the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 made this regulatory . The FAA has <URL> that discuss it in more detail , but here is an image that covers the basics : There is also a <URL> from the FAA which discusses their ability to enforce the regulation and many other parts of 14 CFR 91 if a model aircraft endangers another aircraft , flies within 5 miles of an airport without receiving a clearance , flies into a restricted area , etc. . The short version is that it is n't regulated ( yet ) . For more details , read on . FAA has an <URL> page on their website which addresses this : Do I need permission from the FAA to fly a UAS for recreation or as a hobby ? There are two ways for recreational or hobby UAS fliers to operate in the National Airspace System in accordance with the law and/or FAA regulations . ... Option # 1 . Fly in accordance with the Special Rule for Model Aircraft ( Public Law 112-95 Section 336 ) . Under this rule , operators must : Fly for hobby or recreational purposes only Follow a community-based set of safety guidelines Fly the UAS within visual line-of-sight Give way to manned aircraft Provide prior notification to the airport and air traffic control tower , if one is present , when flying within 5 miles of an airport Fly UAS that weigh no more than 55 lbs . unless certified by a community-based organization Register the aircraft ( UAS over 0.55 lbs . and less than 55 lbs . can be registered online at registermyuas.faa.gov ; UAS 55 lbs . or greater must be registered through the FAA 's paper-based process ) The other option is to obtain a pilot certificate and <URL> The FAA has also published an Advisory Circular <URL> , which states : 1 - PURPOSE . This advisory circular ( AC ) provides guidance to persons operating Unmanned Aircraft ( UA ) for hobby or recreation purposes meeting the statutory definition of " model aircraft " contained in Section 336 of Public Law 112-95 , the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 . This AC describes means by which model aircraft may be operated safely in the National Airspace System ( NAS ) . Nothing in this AC changes the requirement to comply with the statute or any applicable regulations . ... 6 - MODEL AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS . ... b. Model Aircraft Hazards in the NAS . While aero-modelers generally are concerned about safety and exercise good judgment when flying model aircraft for the hobby and recreational purposes for which they are intended , they may share the airspace in which manned aircraft are operating . Unmanned aircraft , including model aircraft , may pose a hazard to manned aircraft in flight and to persons and property on the surface if not operated safely . Model aircraft operations that endanger the safety of the National Airspace System , particularly careless or reckless operations or those that interfere with or fail to give way to any manned aircraft may be subject to FAA enforcement action . c. Determination of " Model Aircraft " Status . Whether a given unmanned aircraft operation may be considered a " model aircraft operation " is determined with reference to section 336 of Public Law 112-95 : ( 1 ) The aircraft is flown strictly for hobby or recreational use ; ( 2 ) The aircraft operates in accordance with a community-based set of safety guidelines and within the programming of a nationwide community-based organization ( CBO ) ; ( 3 ) The aircraft is limited to not more than 55 pounds , unless otherwise certified through a design , construction , inspection , flight test , and operational safety program administered by a CBO ; ( 4 ) The aircraft operates in a manner that does not interfere with , and gives way to , any manned aircraft ; and ( 5 ) When flown within 5 miles of an airport , the operator of the model aircraft provides the airport operator and the airport air traffic control tower ( when an air traffic facility is located at the airport ) with prior notice of the operation . Model aircraft operators flying from a permanent location within 5 miles of an airport should establish a mutually agreed upon operating procedure with the airport operator and the airport air traffic control tower ( when an air traffic facility is located at the airport ) . d. Public Law 112-95 recognizes the authority of the Administrator to pursue enforcement action against persons operating model aircraft who endanger the safety of the National Airspace System . Accordingly , model aircraft operators must comply with any Temporary Flight Restrictions ( TFR ) . ... Model aircraft must not operate in Prohibited Areas , Special Flight Rule Areas or , the Washington National Capital Region Flight Restricted Zone , without specific authorization . e. Model aircraft operators should follow best practices including limiting operations to 400 feet above gro
Simplicity . Yes , a servo tab is helpful , but most control surfaces should include a trim tab , so this can double as a servo tab . Total part count should still be lower than that for a stabilizer-elevator combination . But there are other advantages : Easier adjustment of stick forces and little loss of stability with free-floating controls . By hinging the stabilator ( or full-flying tail ) near the quarter point , its control forces can be kept small and tailored with the servo tab . Also , this helps to keep the hinge moment coefficient derivative over angle of attack $ c _ { r _ \ alpha } $ low . The ratio between it and the derivative over deflection angle $ \ eta $ determines the angle to which the control surface will float , and a small $ c _ { r _ \ alpha } $ means that the stability with a floating control surface will be close to the stability with a fixed surface . Also , balancing masses are easier to place when the full surface moves .
There is indeed a Quid Pro Quo with flight following : you 're adding to the controller 's workload , and they may ask you to do things to help alleviate that workload ( like not flying through a busy approach/departure corridor ) . Some controllers will also vector you around a hot MOA ( even though you can fly through it VFR their normal operating mode is for IFR traffic ) while others will simply alert you that the MOA is hot and leave it up to you to decide how to handle that . Because there 's no language in the ATC manual for " Hey could you please fly around this area so you do n't make my job harder ? " when controllers want to ask you to do something they use the language they do have , which takes the form of instructions ( vectors ) . As a pilot you should remember that vectors are the opening round in a negotiation : If a controller gives you a vector you do n't like you can always ask them why , and often you can negotiate for something better . This is true for IFR flights as well - The only exception is when a controller uses the word " Immediate " or any variation thereof ( then you do what they say and ask your questions later ) . If you know you 'll be flying through an arrival or departure path you can offer to change your altitude to stay out of the way . Your handy VFR Sectional or Terminal Area Chart shows some of the arrival and departure paths for busier airports : <URL> If you offer a climb or descent controllers will usually tell you what altitude they need you at so you are n't in the way , and if they 're not forthcoming you can ask ( " What am I being vectored around ? Can I go through at a different altitude ? " ) . Finally remember that as a VFR flight you are under no obligation to accept their vectors in Class E airspace : If you do n't like what the controller is asking you to do and ca n't negotiate something better simply say and continue on your own navigation ( keep listening to the frequency to see what they do and maybe you 'll come up with better alternatives for your next flight ) . The controllers may grumble about it , particularly if they just put you into the system and you immediately cancel services , but that is n't your problem .
From the <URL> : CONTAMINATED RUNWAY − A runway is considered contaminated whenever standing water , ice , snow , slush , frost in any form , heavy rubber , or other substances are present . A runway is contaminated with respect to rubber deposits or other friction-degrading substances when the average friction value for any 500-foot segment of the runway within the ALD fails below the recommended minimum friction level and the average friction value in the adjacent 500-foot segments falls below the maintenance planning friction level . ( See also <URL> Thanks to <URL> . So this covers rubber and oil , but not debris . However , from searching the glossary there are no instances of the word " debris " in the document . Usually if debris or oil were noticed on a runway , ATC would close the runway ( issue a NOTAM ) and then use an alternate runway until the debris or oil were cleaned up . From a pilots perspective , if you notice debris on the runway just tell ATC ( provided you did n't hit it ) , and they will close the runway for a FOD ( foreign object debris ) check . My local airport does this usually twice a day or more , typically by running a car down the runway looking for debris .
in law generally means according to a calculation or apportionment formula - in the context of the FARs that formula is generally assumed to be $ \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { nOccupants } \ right ) $ as Hugh noted . I actually went on a dive through <URL> on how they deal with the pro rata bit and found nothing applicable to this situation , so what follows is an interpretation crafted out of my own slightly deranged mind , but it seems sensible to me . Interestingly while digging around I found nothing in the FARs or interpretations that would seem to preclude <URL> for pro rata share than " divide by the number of people in the plane " , but neither is there anything I can find to support doing so , and I imagine it would be much harder to justify to your local FSDO if questions came up . For the sake of simplicity ( and our collective sanity ) let 's stick with " simple division " as the formula . The FARs specify that the pilot may not pay less than their pro rata share of operating expenses associated with the flight . So , if we have 4 occupants of the aircraft ( Mom , Dad , Baby , and Pilot ) and they go for a hundred-dollar hamburger the simple division method says pilot can not pay less than one-fourth of the operating expenses associated with the flight . If we say the expenses work out to be \ $ 100 ( for the sake of easy math ) the pilot has to pay at least \ $ 25 . The FAA does n't much care where the rest of the money comes from because it 's implicit in the regulations that the pilot is n't keeping it ( the money would be going into the hands of the FBO for fuel , oil , ramp fees , etc. ) -- Mom &amp; Dad could pay $ 37.50 each ( covering themselves plus the baby ) or split it up between themselves in any other way they wish and this is still acceptable under the regulations as long as the pilot has paid their pro rata share of the expenses . The pilot can certainly pay more than the simple-divison pro rata share of expenses ( and generally that 's the most equitable option - figure out who 's paying , divide by that number , and make sure the pilot is in the " paying " group to stay on the right side of the regulations ) . In your example you would split the cost up among the three adults ( each paying $ 33.33 , and the pilot generally kicking in the extra penny ) . The same logic in both of these arguments would apply if we were n't talking about a baby , but rather a third friend that you all decided to treat to a trip .
Im not sure on military but its still used by GA and Commercial pilots frequently . Although as has been noted in the comments it is slowly being downsized . It should also be noted that Commercial planes and GA planes use the same facilities and the same ATC . Once in the air a C172 may be given the same instructions as a 777 with the only differences being altitude and speed . On one hand some <URL> to some airports . There is an effort to replace these with GPS approaches but there are still active VOR approaches out there today so anyone flying IFR to these airports needs them . They are used for all sorts of IFR navigation and are often the terminal points on an airway , so you may be cleared after departure direct to a VOR . VOR 's can be used as a <URL> . VOR navigation ( and the use of paper charts for that matter ) is still taught during PPL training since GPS is not necessarily installed in every plane . Some <URL> or inertial navigation . <URL> . Personally , I am a big fan of GPS and fly direct when the airspaces and clearances allow for it ( VFR ) . That being said , the planes I rent generally have dual Nav/CDI installations which I frequently use to cross check my position with the GPS .
Yes . One ' official ' example is from the FAA 's <URL> for land and seaplanes , which includes these tasks for seaplanes : Task H : Glassy Water Approach and Landing [ ... ] Task J : Rough Water Approach and Landing The FAA 's <URL> also uses it ; Chapter 6 is called " Seaplane Operations - Landings " . Interestingly , the word " landing " itself is n't defined in the FAA 's <URL> or in <URL> ( the US air regulations general definitions ) . Presumably it 's considered to be too ' obvious ' to require a definition .
All my quotes for this post comes from FAA Order <URL> , the Surface Weather Observing Guide . Visibility is defined as " Visibility is a measure of the horizontal opacity of the atmosphere at the point of observation and is expressed in terms of the horizontal distance at which a person should be able to see and identify specific objects . " All METARs report Prevailing Visibility , which is : " Prevailing visibility is the greatest visibility equaled or exceeded throughout at least half the horizon circle , which does not necessarily have to be continuous . This is the visibility that is considered representative of visibility conditions at the station . " Automated stations , generally report a max visibility of 10 SM . Now if you look at stations that are completely manual , i.e. KBJC ( when I worked there it was a completely manual station ) , we 'd report anywhere up to 70SM or higher visibility , due to our visibility markers . - RA can often be easily seen through , RA or RA + do become harder to see through , and as always , it can be dependant on where the - RA is , if it 's only in a tiny quadrant of the horizon circle , it can often be a greater visibility . [ Edit Post comment about RA ] : Sorry , used a few more abbreviations . SM = Statute Miles , which is like a regular mile that most people use in their daily lives . It 's depicted as SM , due to most other things in aviation being in Nautical Miles . - RA , RA , + RA , are the various descriptors for Rain . - RA means light rain , which if just using vis concerns is defined as , " From scattered drops that , regardless of duration , do not completely wet an exposed surface up to a condition where individual drops are easily seen . " RA , is Moderate Rain , defined as : " Individual drops are not clearly identifiable ; spray is observable just above pavements and other hard surfaces " and + RA is heavy Rain , " Rain seemingly falls in sheets ; individual drops are not identifiable ; heavy spray to height of several inches is observed over hard surfaces . " Also , METAR is the type of aviation weather report . METAR 's are the hourly/standard report , and then there 's SPECI 's which if certain changes occur in conditions , from Freezing Rain , to changes in visibility or cloud ceilings , to massive wind shifts , to thunderstorms , to other factors , can be produced outside of the hourly/regular report .
There are a few ways the aircraft engines can be mounted on the centerline , each with its advantages and disadvantages . <URL> Photo courtesy <URL> . One way is to mount them as in DC10 , with engine above the fuselage ; another one is to use a 'S ' shaped inlet and put the engine at the aft of the fuselage like <URL> . The main advantage of mounting the engine as in DC10 is that the inlet distortion is minimized and there is no need to cut a hole through the fuselage for putting engine . The main disadvantages are that it increases drag ( slightly ) and engine maintenance is a mess . Apparently , the DC10 engineers <URL> to put all three engines in the wing during design , but were not successful . Engines mounted in high thrust line like DC10 and <URL> are highly stabilizing as increase in engine thrust causes a pitch down motion as the thrust is increased . This is usually disconcerting to the pilots , who expect the aircraft to pitch up while engine power is increased . Finally they ended up adding <URL> to correct this in PA47 ( to make it pitch neutral ) . In DC10 , a combination of underwing and high thrust line engines would 've most probably caused no pitch changes at all . So I guess the main advantage is reducing inlet distortion . As MD11 was developed from DC10 , it simply inherited this design . Note : As for the pitch down moment being disconcerting to the pilots , it is better if someone corroborates it . It is simply that most aircraft do n't do this .
The wing planform ( which is the shape and layout of wing ) for each aircraft is mainly based on the aerodynamic requirements . There are other considerations like stealth , controllability etc. . The basic terminology in the wing geometry is given in the figure below . <URL> Source : grc.nasa.gov Most of the wing platforms in use ( or have been used ) fall under one of these categories . Elliptical Aerodynamically , the elliptical planform is the most efficient as elliptical spanwise lift distribution has the lowest possible induced drag ( as given by thin airfoil theory ) . However , the most important disadvantage of the elliptical wing is that its manufacturability is poor . Perhaps the most famous aircraft with elliptical planform is the <URL> , used in Battle of Britan . <URL> " <URL> " by Adrian Pingstone ( <URL> ) - Own work . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . Interestingly , the elliptical wing was not decided to minimize induced drag , but to house the retractable landing gear along with guns and ammunition inside a wing that had to be thin . As per designer Beverly Shenstone , The ellipse was simply the shape that allowed us the thinnest possible wing with room inside to carry the necessary structure and the things we wanted to cram in . And it looked nice . Some aircraft like the <URL> had a semi elliptical wing , with only the leading or trailing edge elliptical . <URL> " <URL> " by Unknown - <URL> . Licensed under CC0 via <URL> . Rectangular Arguably the simplest wing planform from a manufacturing point of view , the rectangular wing is a straight , untapered wing . A good example would be the light general aircraft like <URL> . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . The main disadvantage of this wing is that it is aerodynamically inefficient . Tapered Wing This is a modification of the rectangular wing where the chord is varied across the span to approximate the elliptical lift distribution . While not as efficient as the elliptical lift distribution , it offers a compromise between manufacturability and efficiency . A very good example of aircraft using this type of wing is the North American <URL> , which became the premier USAAF escort fighter against the Luftwaffe . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . Constant Chord with Tapered Outer This is midway between the rectangular and the tapered wing , with the inner part having constant chord and the outer part having a taper . A very good example of this type of wing is the <URL> . <URL> Source : Almost all of the wings seen so far are used in subsonic aircraft due to the large drag caused by them in the transonic regime . Most of the wings used in supersonic aircraft fall under one of the following categories . Delta The delta is a very low aspect ratio wing used in supersonic aircraft , most notably in the European designs . The main advantages of the delta wing is that is efficient in all the flight regimes ( subsonic , transonic and supersonic ) . Also , the wing offers a large wing area for the shape , reducing wing loading and improving maneuverability . The delta wing design is also very strong structurally , offering large volume for internal fuel . The delta wings are also quite simple to build and maintain . The main disadvantages are that they have high induced drag due to low aspect ratio and also that they should have high angle of attack at low speeds ( takeoff and landing ) , mainly due to fact that at these speeds , lift is generated by vortices . To compensate for this , they have high stall angles . A very good example for this wing is the Dassault <URL> , which is an example of tailless delta i.e. without horizontal stabilizers . <URL> Source : www.aircraftrecognition.co.uk A variant of the delta wing used in some aircraft is the one with horizontal stabilizer ( tailed delta ) , the most famous of them being the Russian <URL> . <URL> Source : hdwallpapers.cat Another variant is the one used by the <URL> , the so called cropped delta , where the tips of the delta are ' cut off ' to reduce drag at high angles of attack . <URL> " <URL> " by <URL> - Own work . Licensed under GFDL via <URL> . Yet another variant of the delta wing ( this planform is very popular in combat aircraft ) , is the so called double delta , where the leading edge angle is not constant , but has two different values . One good example of this is the <URL> ' Tejas ' under development in India . <URL> " <URL> " by Rinju9 - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . Trapezoidal The trapezoidal wing is a high performance configuration such that the leading edge sweeps back and the trailing edge sweeps forward . This is mostly found in combat aircraft from the US . This wing configuration offers efficient supersonic flight and has very good stealth characteristics . However , the wing loading is quite high , resulting in reduced maneuverability , especially instantaneous turn rate . This wing configuration is used most notably in the Lockheed Martin F-22 Raptor . <URL> " <URL> " by
The terminology is confusing . When you say lower or higher , it is better to clarify the reference . Boeing 787 has a <URL> compared to the legacy airliners . The best way to say it is that it is pressurized to ( or has ) a lower cabin altitude compared to other airliners .
The etiology of military power is from War Emergency Power ( WEP ) which in the WWII era was a higher than normal rating power ( i.e. > 100 % rated power ) setting on an aircraft engine . Such power settings were approved for short durations ( typically 5 minutes or less ) such as takeoff and battle maneuvers . The term was quickly shortened to military power . Sometimes military power is assumed to be simply full throttle , but that may not be accurate , particularly in blown engines , where turbochargers or superchargers may be set to permit higher than normal air delivery to the combustion chamber . Finally , military power was used for more extended periods of times , when conditions dictated , but at a reduction in reliability and service life . Sometimes in war , service life is not a pilot 's greatest concern .
The rules on this are well-established and clear . They are laid out in <URL> . In particular , you should fly at an altitude which is ( emphasis mine ) : At the highest of the following altitudes or flight levels for the route segment being flown : ( i ) The altitude or flight level assigned in the last ATC clearance received ; ( ii ) The minimum altitude ( converted , if appropriate , to minimum flight level as prescribed in § 91.121 ( c ) ) for IFR operations ; or ( iii ) The altitude or flight level ATC has advised may be expected in a further clearance . For each segment of your route , you evaluate the minimum , assigned , and expected altitudes , and fly the highest . In this case , you 'd fly at 9,000 feet on the leg where the MEA is 9000 , and then descend back to 8,000 when the MEA drops to that altitude or lower . If you lose your radios and squawk 7600 ( or stop squawking altogether ) , ATC will expect you to fly those altitudes . They will provide separation between you and all other IFR traffic at 9,000 feet on the first leg , and 8,000 on the second leg . The only exception to this is if you encounter VFR conditions , in which case you should maintain VFR , land , and call ATC so they stop holding the airspace open for you . In this situation , you should not worry about inconveniencing ATC or other traffic . We have these rules specifically set up so that nobody trades paint if a radio fails . ATC will manage IFR traffic separation for you . " Better in terms of traffic separation " happens when everybody follows the same plan .
For the aviation industry , flammability is a major concern , and aviation hydraulic systems require Fluids that can not burn yet do n't create corrosion and still lubricate . <URL> for instance is a phosphate based ester , a nasty substance that irritates the skin , but at least has some flame resistance . Old hydraulic motion systems on simulators used the stuff , later ones went to mineral oils like Shell Tellus . If there is an oil leak in a pressure hose , a fine mist of fluid droplets appears , flammable if mineral oil but this could be handled in a ground facility with extinguishers everywhere . Not a good circumstance in an aviation accident though , and that is why in aircraft the esters have to be used . Vegetable oils are not used for hydraulic systems in the aviation industry at this moment as far as I am aware .
end question
start question
Have any commercial airline passengers ever been injured from hypoxia due to a depressurization event ?
The passengers on Helios 522 were incapacitated or died due to hypoxia . Those masks in the aircraft only have enough oxygen to sustain the passengers while the plane descends to a safer altitude , or about 12 minutes . Helios 522 was on autopilot at 34,000 feet for 2 and a half hours . The autopsy showed that the passengers were alive at the time of the crash , but it could not determine if they were conscious . The aircraft was unpressurised at an altitude as high as the peak of Everest , the crew were incapacitated , so it follows that the passengers would have been as well , despite the fact that the autopsy showed that they were still alive at the time of the crash . Now , let 's suppose that they had survived the crash . They were hypoxic for 2 hours , which means they would have suffered brain damage and would be suffering with the long term effects of that ( Insomnia , amnesia , etc ) as well as injuries sustained from the crash itself .
pilots need to be able to do work during turbulence . passengers do n't really like to be fully restrained .
NASA added a second cockpit to their Boeing 737-100 , located in the forward cabin . History is a bit patchy , but I believe this was initially to see if it was possible to fly the plane by camera . This might be required by a supersonic design where windows would be impossible ( also known as a ' virtual cockpit ' ) . I understand it has been used for all sort of experiments since then . NASA 515 is the first B-737 built . First used by Boeing to qualify the 737 for airline service , the prototype 737 has since been heavily modified by NASA . It has two separate cockpits - a conventional B-737 forward cockpit providing operational support and safety backup , and an operational research flight deck positioned behind in what was the aircraft 's first-class cabin section . The <URL> involving this aircraft are listed on their website . <URL> Credits : NASA <URL> Credits : Museum of Flight
Unruly passengers can face the followings : Monetary fines Prison sentences Ban on that airline <URL> : In the United States , passengers who disrupt the duties of a flight crew member can face fines up to $ 25,000 and sometimes lengthy prison sentences . IATA has a policy for these passengers mentioned <URL> , and more information is <URL> . ICAO has a <URL> on unruly passenger prevention and management . They have adopted a <URL> to amend <URL> .
Flow conditions are not so different , only the reaction of the flow to an obstacle is . By <URL> , supersonic flow is handled easily , and <URL> in decelerating and compressing the flow . However , supersonic flow demands sharp intake lips which are hit by the flow at the right angle , otherwise drag rises quickly to intolerable levels . These sharp lips will cause flow separation in subsonic flow when hit by the flow at an angle , so aerodynamic tricks like <URL> need to be added to the intake to keep flow angles at the intake lips in check . Note that the intake will ensure a <URL> at the compressor face of the engine , regardless of flight speed . Therefore , the engine will not need to be optimized for supersonic flight . However , to keep its frontal area low and the <URL> , its <URL> should be low . The only troubles this causes are increased engine fuel consumption and <URL> .
The definition of a " Flag Carrier " , although somewhat vague and frequently disputed , is generally accepted to mean : an air carrier that is owned by , or subsidized by , the government of the country of registration , especially for the purposes of flying international routes . <URL> : A flag carrier is a transportation company , such as an airline or shipping company , that , being locally registered in a given state , enjoys preferential rights or privileges accorded by the government for international operations . The term also refers to any carrier that is or was owned by a government , even long after their privatization when preferential rights or privileges continue . <URL> : Airline ... registered under the laws of a country whose government gives it partial or total monopoly over international routes . The US has no carriers in this category . All subsidizing of major domestic and international routes ended with the <URL> . ( Note : there are still some small airlines and routes that are subsidized to serve very small communities ... If you want to read more about this program , it 's called <URL> . )
The reason for not using full aircraft parachutes can be stitched together by looking at the many related questions . Let me do this for you : Parachutes will only help when something essential fails at <URL> . As paul said <URL> , most accidents happen at take-off and landing where a parachute can not be successfully deployed . Parachutes big enough to slow down a whole airliner will be very heavy , reducing payload and increasing the number of flights to transport the same number of passengers . The biggest parachutes designed so far were for the <URL> , and <URL> gave their mass a 3 x 990 kg plus 550 kg for the drogue chute . Wikipedia gives the mass of one SRB at 91,000 kg . Scale this for the zero-fuel mass of an <URL> of 62,500 kg , and the mass will be approx . 2,500 kg . That is equivalent to 25 passengers , or 16 % of the A-320 's capacity . Adding the parachute will translate into 16 % more flights , just to compensate for parachute mass . This is most likely underestimating the true impact because I did not add the mass for structural reinforcements . The opening shock at travel speed would destroy both airplane and chutes . If we want the parachute system to work in as many cases as possible , we need to make deployment possible at up to Mach 0.85 , and then the maximum g-load on aircraft and passengers must not exceed 6 g. ( See <URL> for <URL> which give time - and direction-dependent limits for the maximum deceleration a human being can survive ) . This is possible with staggered deployment of several chutes with increasing size , and by sewing parts of the canopy and the parachute 's strings together , so they can rip apart during opening , which slows the unfolding process . But I expect that this will add to the mass of the parachute system . It will certainly add to the mass of the aircraft 's structure , which is currently limited to <URL> g. By looking at point 2 above alone , it becomes clear that the addition of parachutes will most likely drive up air travel casualties . If we need 16 % more flights to make the cruise part less dangerous , and still <URL> ( which are now 16 % more numerous ) , we gain little . Crashes now involve less passengers , but their number goes up . Tickets will become 20 % more expensive at least ( more if the parachute system costs something , which is very likely ) , and we all know how the majority of passengers votes when faced with a choice of dearer , somewhat safer flights and 20 % cheaper flights at almost the same accident risk .
<URL> has a list of historical routes both by <URL> and ( a few ) <URL> . Though it is not complete , it has a lot of data .
The passengers on Helios 522 were incapacitated or died due to hypoxia . Those masks in the aircraft only have enough oxygen to sustain the passengers while the plane descends to a safer altitude , or about 12 minutes . Helios 522 was on autopilot at 34,000 feet for 2 and a half hours . The autopsy showed that the passengers were alive at the time of the crash , but it could not determine if they were conscious . The aircraft was unpressurised at an altitude as high as the peak of Everest , the crew were incapacitated , so it follows that the passengers would have been as well , despite the fact that the autopsy showed that they were still alive at the time of the crash . Now , let 's suppose that they had survived the crash . They were hypoxic for 2 hours , which means they would have suffered brain damage and would be suffering with the long term effects of that ( Insomnia , amnesia , etc ) as well as injuries sustained from the crash itself .
I am currently developing a plugin for virtual airlines to pull live data , and I use the FlightAware 's API which is really good in my opinion . With a little bit of php magic you can get all the schedules for your airlines for free ( if you sign up for the free account ) or you can pay to get access to the getAirlineSchedule query which just basically does what it says . <URL> There is the website if you 're interested , to get access to the free area , sign up and click the ' get prices ' area and the very left option should be the free pack ;) If you 're interested in my code which I am developing , you can check it out at my github ; <URL> Good luck ;) EDIT : You get the data in the form of json , so you can pull strings of data from there :)
While many times an upgrade is not economical for older airplanes , sometimes the new features make it worth the cost . Two examples I found were <URL> , and <URL> . The second article also mentions American and Icelandair 757 and 767 upgrades . The Southwest and Delta upgrades involve over 100 aircraft in each case , which probably helped to make the upgrades more economical . In both cases , a major factor mentioned was the ability to perform required navigation performance ( <URL> ) procedures with GPS and other modern features . As the FAA works to implement the <URL> ATC system in the US , these upgrades will offer more benefits for the operators . Also , I 'd like to comment on the following statement : Concorde was not properly maintained as its analogue flight deck had never been upgraded . Proper maintenance and technology upgrades are not always the same thing . Aircraft with older systems can be maintained just as well as newer planes . We have airplanes that are 50 years old or older , like the DC-3 , which are still flying . While technology upgrades certainly have benefits , aircraft with analog cockpits are still operating just fine around the world . They may not be the most modern machines out there , but proper maintenance is what has kept them flying this long .
Note <URL> : ( c ) Aircraft category , class , and type ratings : Limitations on the carriage of persons , or operating for compensation or hire . Unless a person holds a category , class , and type rating ( if a class and type rating is required ) that applies to the aircraft , that person may not act as pilot in command of an aircraft that is carrying another person , or is operated for compensation or hire . That person also may not act as pilot in command of that aircraft for compensation or hire . Since you will have the Category and Class rating , then you may carry another person . Your old license says : Your new license will say : You may fly under part 91 ASEL , AMEL , and IFR You may fly part 119 or 135 ( or other commercial operations ) AMEL and IFR1 . You may NOT fly part 119 or 135 or any commercial operations ASEL . If you want to fly ASEL in a commercial operation , you will need to upgrade your ASEL by passing another commercial checkride in an ASEL . This is the back of my certificate . I took the ASES checkride when I had a Private certificate . 1 . Assuming you have the correct medical and any other checkouts you may need
Yes , there are . The <URL> is one example of an aircraft designed with a retractable tailwheel . <URL> Source : USAAF via <URL> , Public Domain ( USGOV-PD ) Another example would be the <URL> : <URL> Source : <URL> , cc-by-sa-2 .0 Doubtless there are also other examples of aircraft similarly equipped with retractable tailwheels .
Yes , there is an indicator for passenger oxygen status . <URL> ( Image Source : www.b737.org.uk )
From a single spotting location , then yes by training . But for any location , then it 's very hard . <URL> when the sound reflects off the surrounding surfaces , e.g. , ground , buildings , etc. . And when the sound comes from above . Most mammals are adept at resolving the location of a sound source using interaural time differences and interaural level differences . However , no such time or level differences exist for sounds originating along the circumference of circular conical slices , where the cone 's axis lies along the line between the two ears . Consequently , sound waves originating at any point along a given circumference slant height will have ambiguous perceptual coordinates . That is to say , the listener will be incapable of determining whether the sound originated from the back , front , top , bottom or anywhere else along the circumference at the base of a cone at any given distance from the ear . Tilting your head might help though . So much so , airplane spotters in WWII judging only by sound <URL> and the entire Luftwaffe was sent looking in the wrong direction , only to realize the direction reported was incorrect and they had to land once they started running out of fuel . Göring freely admitted the laugh was on him , that he had sent the Luftwaffe on a mammoth tour of their own air space . But with computers it can be done using <URL> . Or good old <URL> : <URL> ( <URL> ) Chinese soldiers man a sound detector which directs the firing of 3-inch anti-aircraft guns , around the city of Chongqing , China , on May 2 , 1941 . P.S. Same problem arises when trying to figure out where an artillery fire is coming from or going to .
This question is difficult to answer comprehensively as the continuing education requirements are complex and varied . The complexity is because the continuing education requirements are mandated by multiple parties ( the FAA , insurance companies , clients , and employers ) and depend on the regulations the flight is conducted under ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. ) , the type of aircraft operated ( single engine , multi-engine , turboprop , jet ) , and the pilot 's role in the operation ( PIC , SIC ) . Note that both the Commercial and Airline Transport Pilot ( ATP ) license are good for life , unless revoked or surrendered . Any continuing education requirements are to retain the employment or the privileges of exercising the license , unlike CE requirements for licenses in some industries . In very broad brush strokes , most professional pilots will be required to complete a flight proficiency check , either in an actual aircraft , or in a simulator , every 6 to 12 months . The amount of time will vary for such checks , but 3 hours might be typical . This proficiency check will be accompanied , in some cases , with a written or oral examination . In addition to this , insurance may require an aircraft systems class and simulator brush up session every 12-24 months . Such training is usually accomplished in 3-6 days , including roughly 12-24 hours of lecture/bookwork , and 6-10 hours of simulator time . In addition to the flight and systems training , pilots employed by air carriers will generally be required to receive instruction on operational aspects of their operation , including such topics as <URL> , hazardous materials , weather , physiology , as well as many others . Such training is often self-paced , computer based training ( CBT ) . I would estimate the time commitment for this training to be 20-40 hours annually . In addition to the required training and testing , many pilots choose to spend additional time studying aviation related topics . Such topics may include all those alluded to above , as well as other topics . Examples of such study would be changes to company operational procedures , brushing up on checklist memorization , FAA advisory publications , and areas of interest outside of normal operations , such as international operations . Speaking personally , I probably spend roughly 10 hours a week in what could be considered aviation related study or learning . I also often see other pilots at my company studying various aircraft or operational manuals , and our company keeps a collection of articles , FAA advisories , and other publications related to our operation with the intent that pilots voluntarily study these materials as they have time . Bear in mind that a pilot 's life often involves a great deal of waiting , a task which often lends itself to reading and study .
Aviation is very energy-hungry . While hydrogen is quite efficient in terms of energy per mass ( <URL> ) , it is awful in terms of energy per volume . Aircraft today use their wings for fuel storage , which helps to reduce bending loads and uses a volume unsuitable to transport payload . This will not work for hydrogen . The biggest problem is <URL> , and none of the solutions is really attractive : Kryogenic : Storing the hydrogen at a temperature where it is liquid ( below 20 ° K ) greatly reduces volume demands , but now you need to add insulation , and even then the energy per volume is only a quarter compared to hydrocarbons . This is used in rockets , because they can rely on extensive ground support before launch and use up the stuff in a few minutes . Airliners , however , need to store their fuel over tens of hours , so their hydrogen tanks will be much heavier and bulkier than those of rockets . Compressed : This avoids the energy input for liquefaction , but now you need a strong and heavy pressure vessel . Current <URL> uses up to 700 bar pressure , but even then the volume demand is higher than that of kerosene for the same energy content . Hydrides : Some metals like magnesium or <URL> can bind hydrogen and release it when heated . However , even in the most efficient compounds like sodium tetrahydroaluminate , only 7.4 % of mass is useable hydrogen , making this exquisitely unsuitable for mass-critical applications like aviation . Currently a <URL> looks the most attractive and has been tested widely . The first ( partially ) hydrogen powered aircraft was the LZ-127 Zeppelin which used a mixture of gasses of equal mass per volume as air ( <URL> ) to power its engines . Tupolev designed and flew the <URL> , the first hydrogen-powered heavier-than-air aircraft , in 1988 . The results showed that the principle worked , but could not compete with kerosene . Currently , <URL> , but none with the hope of widespread application - as it stands , binding hydrogen chemically to carbon will still give the best way of storage ( liquid and unpressurized ) for aviation . Hydrogen becomes the best source of energy only when combustion speed is critical , such as in supersonic combustion ramjets ( <URL> ) .
Can a commercial airplane fly outside the safety area ? Yes , there is nothing physically stopping the plane from doing so . Is it allowed to do so ? No , precisely for the event should an engine fail then it will have enough range to get to the airport and make a safe landing . Extending the allowable range of twin engine aircraft is what <URL> is about . By default commercial airplanes with 2 engines must remain within 60 minutes flying time of an airport in case of engine failure . This was decided at a time where engines were unreliable . However as engine reliability increased airplanes could have that range increased with an ETOPS certificate .
Having flight training has no effect at all on your visa status . It 's actually the other way around : your visa status can determine <URL> . But you can definitely get flight training with an H1B . And flying has no special impact on your job : how you choose to spend your free time is none of your employer 's business . There could be some very specific scenarios where flight training and work intersect , e.g. if your company is in the aviation sector you might be able to get them to pay for training . Or if you 're a very senior executive at a very large company then the Board of Directors might have concerns about you spending your time on ' risky ' activities . But otherwise , flying has nothing at all to do with your work .
Probably <URL> . Though , I should note , that there is some credible evidence that only one person was actually flying the plane and the other may have been forced into coming along . So you could probably consider it to have been stolen by one person , and that person appears to have not been remotely qualified to fly it . When it was leaving the plane seemed to meander down the taxiway to the runway , like the pilot had no idea what they were doing , and then it took off . It has n't been seen since , and most credible theories think it crashed in the ocean . But <URL> abound . A close second would probably be <URL> ( <URL> plane reference ) , also stolen in Africa . This time by an employee of the company who was , unfortunately , suicidal . He flew the plane around the airport for a few minutes demanding to speak to everyone from his boss , to his significant other to the president of the country . He eventually crashed it into a couple of other ATR 's the company owned . In reference to the " I 'm writing a story " line . I would suggest that a 727 probably is n't the optimal plane for a single person to steal . They 're older and difficult to manage on your own . I think a much better option would be a more modern aircraft , like an <URL> or a <URL> . They have avionics that allow for one person to reasonably fly the plane . Granted , they are very new and may be harder to steal . Probably the sweet spot between " new enough to be flyable by one person " and " old enough to have one just sitting around to be stolen " would be something like a <URL> or an <URL> . Both are still quite large , but a skilled pilot could probably operate one on their own if they needed to . In fact , <URL> .
end question
start question
Will air traffic control ever ask a plane to not brake hard on a landing ?
Yes , we can ask you to plan your landing roll in a certain way . We wo n't technically instruct you to brake the aircraft in a specific way , but simply to aim for a specific taxiway after landing . There can be different reasons for this , but generally it is an attempt to expedite traffic flow on the ground at the airport . For example , if you are landing on a long runway and your parking position is near the far end of the runway , I might ask you to keep the plane rolling down the runway and vacate at the end , in order for you to have a shorter taxi time . It could also be that the taxiway you would normally use to leave the runway is blocked by another aircraft or vehicle , and I want you to leave the runway via a taxiway that is further down the runway . However , extending the landing roll does extend the runway occupancy time as well , so if there is another aircraft behind you on short final I will not offer you to perform a long landing roll . This is also why you should always ask ATC if you are planning to perform a long landing for one reason or the other -- if we have someone else just a couple miles behind you , we might have to instruct them to go around if you do not vacate the runway like we expect you to . With regards to reverse thrust specifically , there are airports where the use of reverse thrust is only permitted in special situations . This is to reduce the noise level at and around the airport . However , this is purely a regulatory thing , and is not actually related to ATC . ICAO offers the following guidance on the subject ( DOC 4444 ) : 7.10.3.1 When necessary or desirable in order to expedite traffic , a landing aircraft may be requested to : a ) hold short of an intersecting runway after landing ; b ) land beyond the touchdown zone of the runway ; c ) vacate the runway at a specified exit taxiway ; d ) expedite vacating the runway . 7.10.3.2 In requesting a landing aircraft to perform a specific landing and/or roll-out manoeuvre , the type of aircraft , runway length , location of exit taxiways , reported braking action on runway and taxiway , and prevailing meteorological conditions shall be considered . A HEAVY aircraft shall not be requested to land beyond the touchdown zone of a runway .
Air forces use special training rigs rather than real ejection seats . <URL> Plenty of pilots have survived ejection ( Wikipedia says " As of 20 June 2011 ... the number of lives saved by Martin-Baker products was 7,402 from 93 air forces " ) The types of injury are illustrated by <URL> The ejection seat has been responsible for saving the lives of thousands of pilots around the world since its introduction in the late 1940s . Typical survival rates quoted in the literature vary from 80 -- 97 % . It is generally accepted that radiographic evidence of vertebral fracture can be found in 30 % -- 70 % of aircrew after ejection The reason real ejection seats are not used is almost certainly the high risk of injury . Ejecting clear from a high speed jet requires a lot of acceleration .
No because aircraft are categorized by their <URL> ( 1.3 times stall speed ) . <URL> VAT -- Speed at threshold used by ICAO ( 1.3 times stall speed in the landing configuration at maximum certificated landing mass ) By knowing the category , ATC is able to use appropriate speeds . The category is not actually listed anywhere , so the controller will have to know the approach category by heart for each aircraft type . E.g. if the controller sees " B738 " as the aircraft type in the flightplan , they have to know that the corresponding approach category is C. More : <URL> <URL> ( for the US )
It depends on the type of situation . If the aircraft is unable to land for some reason , we 'll want to know the remaining fuel to get an idea of how long the aircraft can realistically stay airborne . For an aircraft coming in for an emergency landing - as you have already guessed - the reason we ask for remaining fuel is because the fire and rescue personel needs this information . We will also ask such an aircraft if they have any dangerous goods onboard , since we need to pass this info on to the fire crew as well . During an emergency , we have a checklist to follow that reminds us which information we need to obtain , and who needs to know what is going on . For a tower position , it may look something like this : <URL> As you can see , fuel and dangerous goods are grouped together , indicating that they are essentially the same thing - something that may cause fire , explode or otherwise cause danger during evacuation of the aircraft .
Yes , the wing is positioned so that the center of lift is near the center of gravity . The MD-80 is very tail heavy due to the aft mounting of the engines . I have actually personally seen the nose of an MD-80 lifted off the ground by a jet bridge , and it did n't even hurt the door that was supporting the weight . This chart is from the MD-80 weight and balance manual , which can be found on google . You can see that the center of gravity ( CG ) must be within -2.8 % to 33.4 % of the Mean Aerodynamic Chord ( MAC ) which is an approximation of average wing chord . So basically the CG must be in the forward 1/3 of the average wing chord , typically the center of lift is around 25 % of chord . On the MD-80 the leading edge of the MAC is at body station 885.547 , which is behind the actual LE of the wing at the fuselage . <URL> The reason you want to place the CG near the center of lift is to create the smallest pitch moment possible between the CG and CL . The pitching moment created by the difference in the CG and CL location must be reacted out by the horizontal stabilizer . The more moment , the larger the stabilizer must be and the more inefficient the aircraft . Here is an illustration ( stolen from this question <URL> ) : <URL> Here is the picture of the MD-80 doing the wheelie : <URL>
Yes , we can ask pilots to speed up on approach , but it is discouraged and not commonly done . This is because , as an aircraft approaches an airport , the crew will configure it for landing . This includes lowering the flaps , which lowers a number of reference speeds - essentially , making them unable to fly very fast . In order to speed up , they would have to raise the flaps again , which would result in extra workload and bad fuel economy . The controller you heard knows this . They used the phrase " if able " to emphasize to the pilots , that they only had to comply if it was convenient for them . ICAO provides the following guidance ( form Doc 4444 ) : 4.6.1.3 Speed adjustments should be limited to those necessary to establish and/or maintain a desired separation minimum or spacing . Instructions involving frequent changes of speed , including alternate speed increases and decreases , should be avoided . ... 4.6.3.5 Arriving aircraft should be permitted to operate in a clean configuration for as long as possible . Below 4 550 m ( FL 150 ) , speed reductions for turbojet aircraft to not less than 410 km/h ( 220 kt ) IAS , which will normally be very close to the minimum speed of turbojet aircraft in a clean configuration , may be used . 4.6.3.6 Only minor speed adjustments not exceeding plus/minus 40 km/h ( 20 kt ) IAS should be used for aircraft on intermediate and final approach . 4.6.3.7 Speed control should not be applied to aircraft after passing a point 7 km ( 4 NM ) from the threshold on final approach .
I 'm pretty sure it works without the smart phone . If I understand correctly , the smart phone app simply relays the imagery from the camera , which can be useful for navigating especially if you do not have a clear line of sight . <URL> ran <URL> on this very model , which might interest you .
Question : Can these planes be certified for IFR , despite the IMC limitation ? No Refer to <URL> : B. Type Certificate Data . Appropriate type certificate data will indicate whether the aircraft meets the requirements for IFR operations . ( 1 ) Section 91.9 ( a ) prohibits aircraft operations without compliance with the operating limitations for that aircraft prescribed by the certificating authority . if no , can they be used for training for one 's instrument rating and for the instrument rating checkride ? Yes , as per <URL> : 9 . USE OF AIRCRAFT NOT APPROVED FOR IFR OPERATIONS UNDER ITS TYPE CERTIFICATE FOR INSTRUMENT TRAINING AND/OR AIRMAN CERTIFICATION TESTING . The following paragraphs are intended to clarify the use of an aircraft not approved for IFR operations under its type certificate for instrument flight training and/or airman certification testing . A. IFR Training in Visual Meteorological Conditions ( VMC ) . Instrument flight training may be conducted during VMC in any aircraft that meets the equipment requirements of part 91 , 91.109 , 91.205 , and , for an airplane operated in controlled airspace under the IFR system , 91.411 and 91.413 . An aircraft may be operated on an IFR flight plan under IFR in VMC , provided the PIC is properly certificated to operate the aircraft under IFR . However , if the aircraft is not approved for IFR operations under its type certificate , or if the appropriate instruments and equipment are not installed or are not operative , operations in Instrument Meteorological Conditions ( IMC ) are prohibited . The PIC of such an aircraft must cancel the IFR flight plan in use and avoid flight into IMC . For example , you can <URL> , even though its not legal in IMC . Although the R44 IFR Trainer was designed for instrument flight training , it is not approved for actual IFR operations . While student pilots are flying on instruments , the instructor must act as the safety pilot and operate only under VFR conditions . if yes , then if one were to be flown into IMC , would be this be a legal violation or a warranty violation ? This would be a legal violation of 91.9 ( a ) 91.9 ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( d ) of this section , no person may operate a civil aircraft without complying with the operating limitations specified in the approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual , markings , and placards , or as otherwise prescribed by the certificating authority of the country of registry .
Some very spot-on comments , some comments that are totally ignorant of the job . I am a retired ATC , 32 years . I worked at one of the world 's busiest and most complex US facilities ( as described by many independent sources ) . Have you ever : Heard a family on the other end of the radio screaming just moments before they were obliterated in the air by a military fighter flying VFR ? Tried in vain to find a way to contact the occupants of Payne Stewart 's jet only to watch helplessly as it finally crashes after several hours of flight ? Had 30 + airliners in your sector which happens to be dotted with Level 5 thunderstorms ? The amount of airspace you now have has decreased substantially and the aircraft all need to deviate . They all want to either go in different directions , or they all want to head towards the few clear spots left . You sit there for 2 hours directing aircraft to basically thread a needle at 500mph and pulling out every trick in your book to ensure that there is enough space to ensure all 30 + aircraft ( and more , because those aircraft never stop coming ) make it through your airspace without encountering the dangers of severe weather or coming into physical contact with another aircraft . Aircraft that are often executing movements that they do n't have clearance for , which requires quick and accurate reaction from the controller . Dealt with one of the times when a corporate jet " flames out " at 43,000 feet and immediately descends through a dozen or more jets flying the same path , requiring the controller to immediately clear all of those aircraft out of the path of that corporate jet . Had a small twin prop lose all electronics and be unable to navigate properly while in a thick cloud layer . His portable radio is not working properly , so radio communications must be short and accurate . ( Remember , you have another sector full of aircraft that you are also providing services to ) . Finally , his portable radio fail . Right before that , you ask the pilot if he has a cell phone . He does . You give him a phone number and you and he are able to communicate via telephone to finally guide him to a safe landing at Newport News Airport . I could write a book about many specific events that controllers have experienced . The " pucker factor " events . But the real stress is the long term chronic stress that the job presents . Certainly , there are facilities that are both low traffic and have uncomplicated operations . If you are lucky enough to work at one of these ( and willing to accept the low end of the pay scale ) then stress is probably much lower and stressful events infrequent . But for the majority of controllers ( who work at a number of very high traffic facilities ; air traffic in the US is higher and more complicated than the next 29 countries ' air traffic , combined ) the stress is a chronic , continuous level ( not the big adrenalin-pumping situations ) from being attached to your position for several hours , trying to maintain a constant " big picture " , maintaining situational awareness , issuing control instructions to ensure that SAFETY is always the first product of your efforts . Many , if not most , controllers will most likely retire with high blood pressure , diabetes , sleep disorders , etc. that despite best efforts to exercise and live a healthy lifestyle will probably affect a controller for the remainder of their life . Certainly , other jobs are stressful , and I would never try to compare one as " more stressful " than the other . The top ones are all stressful . But those that try to downplay the stress of air traffic control would only need to visit a busy air traffic control facility for a day and they would see and probably feel the stress themselves . I have a very good friend that is an FBI field agent in Washington , DC . He has worked on some very high-profile cases . We were talking one day and he said something about the stress of air traffic control . I chuckled saying that at least I was n't being faced by some of the most dangerous people in the country . But his response was that in his job they have detailed plans for what they do . His raids were in the middle of the night when these people were asleep and unsuspecting . He had a well-trained team that each had specific responsibilities . They had plenty of firepower and protective equipment . He said that most of his operations were quite easy and they experienced little resistance . He did have moments of intensity , but he ( who had visited an air traffic facility ) did not think the stress he experienced was anywhere near to what he saw at the air traffic control facility . But I still would not want to be a law enforcement officer , nor a school teacher for that matter ! My personality was a good match for the job of air traffic control . But now that I am retired , I take blood pressure medicine , am borderline diabetic despite a regular exercise program and am within a healthy weight and eat very healthy . I also still have sleep apnea and
You are right : A slip is a cross-controlled ( and uncoordinated ) situation . It 's exactly what your instructor was teaching you to avoid during your early lessons . As far as nomenclature goes : all slips are cross-controlled maneuvers , but not all cross-controlled maneuvers are slips : On climb-out in most piston singles you will be stomping on the right rudder to offset the plane 's left-turning tendencies , and you will probably notice that you 're rolling in a tiny bit of left aileron ( which offsets the banking tendency introduced by the rudder ) - your controls may be very slightly crossed , but the result is coordinated flight ( a centered ball ) . The real difference here between an " unintentionally cross-controlled situation " and an " intentional slip " is the intentional bit : When you are knowingly slipping the aircraft - for example to bleed off altitude on a high final without increasing your airspeed - you 're aware that you 're flying in an uncoordinated and aerodynamically unstable condition . You 're aware of the risks , and are hopefully monitoring the aircraft carefully to avoid a stall/spin . For a little more insight , faaflighttest.us <URL> which is worth a read , and possibly an hour in the air practicing some of what they discuss with your instructor so you can get the " feel " .
Smelling exhaust in the cockpit is not normal . Tell your instructor and squawk the problem . Bonus - turn it into a learning experience by arranging to be with the A&amp;P when he decowls and inspects . You can learn a lot about the engine that way . If you are getting a headache from this you may have mild CO poisoning . This does need to be checked out .
1 ) Why does n't the tower use satellite throughout the flight ? The narrow answer is that the control tower is responsible for a small geographic area . The " tower " does n't want to talk to the craft at other points in the flight , so the need is not there . It only wants to talk to the plane when it is close to the tower 's airspace . Other components of air traffic control that do need to talk with airplanes in flight also divide up regions of the airspace and have radio equipment situated to talk to the necessary craft . A larger answer is that ground control and aircraft communications were under major development for decades before satellite communications were available . The system we use today is heavily based on line-of-sight VHF communication radio over most populated areas . Since these systems are already installed in many thousands of aircraft , changing to something different like satellite communication requires a significant benefit , someone to pay for it , and a lot of time to allow for the change . 2 ) Does a control tower only send voice services through the direct link ? or does it send data as well ? Data is beginning to be sent via <URL> . You can search for CPDLC on this site and find several questions and answers about it , but it is considered only a supplement to the voice communication of ATC today . Are n't there security issues or power safety issues involved in ground to air transmissions ? Unauthorized transmissions are possible , but they are managed and have n't traditionally been a big problem . There 's another question about <URL> . But much of the answer is that since ATC is monitoring the frequency , unauthorized transmissions would be heard and responded to . I 'm sure that future digital delivery will change some of these issues , but that 's likely to be true whether the message is transmitted via local radio transmitters or satellite . Not sure if that 's what you meant by security issues . I 'm not familiar with power safety issues .
I 've heard about lots of bird strike incidents that occured during a takeoff roll or the early phase of takeoff climb but hardly heard of bird strikes on approach or landing . This is always a dangerous thing . Only because you hear more bird strikes that occur on takeoff , it does not mean there are more at takeoff . I found , for example , <URL> about bird strikes from the year 2000 . It says : [ ... ] 38 % of the bird strikes occurred during take-off and climb , and 56 % during approach [ ... ] That means there are more bird strikes during approach than on takeoff . I assume things have n't changed a lot since then . This question is even answered in the <URL> : Q : Do most bird strikes occur while in flight , at takeoff , or landing ? A : About 60 % of bird strikes with civil aircraft occur during landing phases of flight ( descent , approach and landing roll ) ; 37 % occur during take-off run and climb ; and the remainder occur during the en-route phase . A more specific statistic : <URL> <URL> Possible reason for subjective perception of bird-strikes happening more often during departure I thought a little about it and came to following possible reason : After a bird-strike on final , the pilots will continue landing . It would be unwise not to land immediately . For the passengers it will look like a normal landing . If the bird damages the engine , there is only a small change of sound , because the engines are running very low . However , when a bird-strike occurs while taking off , there is immediate action taken by the pilots . And because the engines are at or near full thrust , the sound of a dying engine can be perceived by the passengers . Last but not least , a departing aircraft has a much higher speed than a landing one , which means more damage . So , for newspapers , a bird-strike at take-off is more <URL> . More damage to the plane than a bird-strike on final Passengers not reaching their destination Dramatic passenger interviews about their " near-death-experience " A newspaper is not interested in a bird-strike on final , where everything went fine and no passenger noticed anything . To support my theorem , I googled " bird strike " and clicked on the " News " - tab . I looked through every article that had to do something with an bird-strike incident . 5 out of 6 articles were about a bird-strike on take-off . That 's over 80 % .
The <URL> publishes a <URL> that includes seaplane facilities and flight planning maps for cross countries . This lists facilities that offer seaplane rental 's . There is a discounted price on the directory for SPA members .
In most modern ATC units , almost all transfers are conducted as " silent transfers " . A silent transfer is a transfer where all necessary information about a flight is sent in advance to the next ATC sector by an automated system . In this case , the controller does not have to manually talk to the next sector , but will simply instruct the pilot to switch to the next frequency prior to the area of responsibility border . Where manual coordination is required , it is most likely done by the planning controller ( PLC ) . As opposed to the executive controller ( EC ) , who talks to the planes , the PLC ( who will be seated right next to the EC ) handles coordination with adjacent sectors via dedicated telephone lines . There are two main parts of a transfer : the transfer of communication and the transfer of control . The transfer of communication is the actual frequency switch -- the instruction for the pilot to switch from one frequency to another . The transfer of control is the transfer of responsibility of the flight from one controller to the next . Before answering your question directly , let us establish the premises of the question . Note : this answer refers primarily to European procedures , and is largely based on <URL> In respect to your question , the transfer of control is the interesting part . Firstly , we must realise that there are two fundamentally different premises for a transfer of control . Either the transfer takes place from one position/sector to another position/sector within the same ATC unit ( for example between two area control sectors in the same area control centre ) , or the transfer takes place from one ATC unit to another ( for example when a flight crosses a state border ) . In the first case , the adjacent sector will typically already have access to information about the flight , since both sectors rely directly on the same data source . In the second case , this might not be the case . Additionally , in the first case , controllers will often be physically seated right next to each other . For units where paper flight progress strips are still used ( mainly some approach and tower units ) , this enables controllers to physically pass the flight progress strip to the next controller . In both cases , there are four required stages which lead up to a transfer of control ( refer to ICAO document 4444 , section 10.1 ) : a ) Notification of the flight in order to prepare for coordination , as necessary ; b ) Coordination of conditions of transfer of control by the transferring ATC unit ; c ) Coordination , if necessary , and acceptance of conditions of transfer of control by the accepting ATC unit ; and d ) The transfer of control to the accepting ATC unit or control sector . Doc 4444 also states that : ATC units shall forward from unit to unit , as the flight progresses , necessary flight plan and control information . Now , your question is , to what extend is this data transfer process automated . ICAO document 7030 gives us a clue to the background of the answer : When so agreed between adjacent ATC units , a computer-assisted coordination process shall be introduced to eliminate the need for verbal coordination of boundary estimates and to reduce the amount of manual data input into ATC computers . In most modern ATC units , almost all transfers are conducted as " silent transfers " . A silent transfer is a transfer where all necessary information about a flight is sent in advance to the next ATC sector by an automated system . In this case , the controller does not have to manually talk to the next sector , but will simply instruct the pilot to switch to the next frequency prior to the area of responsibility border . Silent transfer of control procedures require that traffic is predictable and sufficient system support is provided to ATCOs to ensure : - They are in possession of all elements related to the aircraft profile and - Should the agreed conditions of the transfer change , they have the means to speak to each other such that new conditions are agreed expeditiously and safely . Silent transfers are based on the exchange of flight data , which happens through connected Flight Dara Processing Systems , which make use of the OLDI protocol . The operational use of connections between Flight Data Processing Systems ( FDPSs ) at ACCs for the purpose of replacing verbal " estimates " is referred to as On-Line Data Interchange ( OLDI ) . The implementation of basic OLDI messages is mandatory in accordance with Regulation ( EC ) No 1032/2006 . These messages are defined by the EUROCONTROL Specifications What this regulation means in practise is that , within Europe , silent transfers are used more often than not . However , you will also see units where a manual coordination prior to a transfer is required , for example flights crossing the border from certain European countries to certain non-European countries . Where manual coordination is required , it is most likely done by the planning controller
What 's the main purpose of this detection system even there are brake temperature sensors . Far more often than not , the need for brake temperature sensors is after landing to tell you how hot the brakes are . If you had to use heavy braking upon landing , they 're going to be hot . How hot they are tells the captain in part how he needs to taxi and whether he should advise ground personnel to stay away from the sides of the tires where the thermal plgus are and possibly to use cooling equipment ( typically a huffer ) to cool them down . Wheel well temperature sensors are needed after takeoff . The potential problem here is that you need to keep an eye on how warm the wheel well is getting from the hot tires you have retracted and enclosed in the wheel well . As an example , let 's say you have a 747 freighter loaded to a max takeoff weight of 825,000 lbs or more at Honolulu and taking off on RWY 8R . That 's 20,000 feet of taxiing and another 10,000 feet plus of takeoff roll . The flexing of the tires during that taxi and takeoff generates a lot of heat . Once the wheels are in the wells , that heat transfers into the wells and eventually leaves the airplane . However , if for whatever reason , the tires already had a lot of extra heat before the taxi started or a lot of braking was done during the taxi , or the airplane was stuck down low in warmer air after takeoff , whatever , the wheel well temperature might exceed the safe limit . The solution is usually simple , drop the gear and cool the tires . If you do n't you risk a wheel well fire . Some aircraft do have this detection system ( many Boeing aircraft ) , some do not . Why ? The short answer is that they have been designed so that they do n't need it , which begs the question : why are n't all aircraft designed such that they do n't need it . Essentially every aircraft design includes compromises . It 's all part of tailoring the design to best accomplish what the aircraft 's primary task is to be . Using the 747 example , you could , for example , install a cooling system in the wheel wells to take care of the heat , or you could use heavier tires that did n't flex as much and thus did n't heat up as much , or you could have additional structure able to resist the heat or dissipate it quicker . But whatever means you used , it would mean hauling around more weight and the attendant costs in fuel and loss of payload capability when you did n't need it most of the time . Far better to avoid those high costs , but in the interests of safety install a much lighter system that will alert you to the need to cool off the wheel well by dropping the gear . Insofar as potential 747 wheel well overheats are concerned , baring mechanical failure , it 's generally a problem only when the aircraft is used in a manner that it was n't designed for . For example , the 747 was designed as a long-haul transport . As such , there would be plenty of time for the wheels to cool down in the wheel wells . As I remember we were told in ground school that 5.5 hours was the cool down time . So , if you have a short leg and then a quick turn with high weights , you might be taking off with tires that have more heat in them than the system was designed to handle . When JAL decided to use the 747 for high-density , short hauls within Japan , Boeing came up with the 747SR ( Short Range ) which included a redesign of the undercarriage as well as several other things . The design goal was that that any commuter airliner needs : short legs , frequent takeoffs and landings , and it made sense to optimize the design for that criteria , and that optimization required a decrease in range and payload as I remember .
The same way it is done in small airplanes and older airlines -- toe brakes . The rudder pedals translate forward and back to actuate the rudder and they pivot around the lateral axis to actuate the brake system . Each pedal independently controls only the brakes on its side of the airplane ( e.g both pilots left toe brake actuates the brakes on the left main gear ) . Planes will often have an emergency or parking brake , which will be a lever somewhere that actuates the brake system . This system , outside of emergencies is only used when the plane is not moving and you want it to remain that way . Larger airplanes with also sometimes have autobrakes which provide a triggered automatic application of a certain level of braking . This kind of system is used both to provide automatic maximum braking for a rejected takeoff ( RTO ) and some lesser automatic braking upon landing rollout . To summarize , for taxi and ground movement the brake input is coming from the toe brakes . When the aircraft is stopped , brake input will be transferred from the toe brakes to the parking brake . When the plane lands , if it is so equipped and enabled , the autobrakes will begin brake application and the pilot will take over with the toe brakes and continue to use toe brakes for the taxi in .
RFL is Requested Flight Level , ECL is the En-Route Cruise Level . RFL the cruising flight level that has been requested by the flight plan or by the pilots , ECL is the level which has been actually assigned by the controller . The two may be the same or they may be different . From the <URL> , page 33 2.3.2 Enroute Cruising Level ( ECL ) ( 3.3.2 ) Domain Knowledge : The ECL is a notional level that , in the absence of constraints , equates to the RFL . In the case where a flight is not permitted to cruise at its RFL for any or a part of its route , due to the presence of a strategic constraint ( level limit ) which applies to flights between the aerodromes of departure and destination , the ECL will be limited to the level defined by the constraint . The ECL may also be changed by instruction from ATC where the flight is to maintain a different cruising level , typically due to the proximity of a flight at the RFL on the same route . As with the RFL , the ECL can be changed for different segments of the route and , if different in the cruise phase , is changed to the XFL on passing the sector boundary . The notion of ECL ceases to exist after the final TOD from cruising level . This is a complicated way of saying the requested flight level is usually assigned unless there 's a good reason for the controller not to ( to avoid potential conflicts for example ) , and the pilots can request a different flight level en route .
ATC frequencies do n't change very often , but when they do they are planned well in advance . NOTAM 's are issued ahead of time to let people know , and if the airport has ATIS they will include the new frequency on the ATIS . If it is an enroute frequency , the other controllers will simply hand you off to the new frequency , and you do n't even need to know about it ahead of time .
Yes you may , but you need to carry a <URL> while above 10,000 ft or in some types of <URL> and have it switched on . Which pretty much negates the stealth capabilities of your aircraft . To quote the linked AOPA page : According to 14 CFR 99.13 , no person may operate an aircraft into or out of the United States , or into , within , or across an ADIZ designated in subpart B unless operating a transponder with Mode C. Certain exemptions might apply to aircraft that were not originally certified with an engine-driven electrical system ; see 99.13 ( d ) .
end question
start question
How far ahead does an airline know which aircraft you will be flying on ?
It depends on the airline and their planning capacity . The simple answer is that they ca n't be sure of the tail number " of record " for a flight until the plane pulls into the gate at its destination . It 's rare for a plane that departs the gate for a flight to not run that flight ( it 's pretty bad business for it to be common for flights to depart the gate and then come right back , or to be diverted , or otherwise not finish the route they left the gate to fly ) ; it indicates a mechanical issue exists that did not develop and/or was not discovered until taxi or takeoff , and at some point in the flight ( probably when departure control hands them off the the ARTCC ) the plane could be said to have " run " the flight even if it ended up diverted . Most of the equipment schedules ( which tail number will fly which route at exactly what departure and arrival times ) are generated by computer and can be set up months in advance if they really wanted to . However , that 's usually an exercise in futility along the lines of predicting the weather more than a few days ahead . Airline scheduling , like weather , is susceptible to " chaos theory " , because small deviations from the initial plan tend to compound over time instead of factoring out . Ticket sales , rebooks and cancellations will affect the schedule days and weeks in advance of the flight . It 's technically illegal to cancel a flight less than a certain number of days before its scheduled departure if it has even a single paying customer on the roster , but if a route is underperforming , the scheduler can reduce the scheduled daily flights along that route which could bump people who bought a ticket far in advance . Also , an underbooked flight can legally be cancelled if the plane is needed for an equipment change on a fuller flight , as cancelling the underbooked flight would cause less overall disruption than cancelling the full flight because that plane ca n't make its next hop . I just mentioned mechanicals ; that 's a big reality check for a computer-generated schedule . If a plane can not continue because of a mechanical defect , it gets pulled for maintenance . Airlines typically have a few planes parked strategically on the tarmac of various airports for a day , which can be activated to run a route , but they do n't have too many of these since a parked aircraft is n't making money , and there is n't always one of these standby aircraft readily available as a substitute ( though if a defect is found in flight the replacement can be on the way before the defective one lands to reduce the delay ) . Meanwhile , mechanicals are typically such a localized problem that the schedulers ca n't get away with just delaying flights systemwide , like they can often do with severe weather . They have to run the rest of their fleet on time , and that means either getting a replacement plane to the gate , pronto , or else sending that replacement plane empty to the cancelled flight 's next destination , so the new plane can get those passengers on to their destination . Obviously , severe weather can cause major ripples through an airline 's schedule for days to come . If ORD or DFW has a " ground stop " due to severe precipitation or high winds , that will delay not only the flights scheduled to arrive or depart in that time , but every flight those tail numbers were scheduled to run for the rest of the day , as well as various scheduled connectors ( those connecting flights , if they 're not also under severe weather , often have to depart with whatever passengers they have otherwise there will be even more delays ; then the passengers who have missed that connectot will have to be rebooked , on other airlines if need be ) . That delay time also counts as " active " time for a flight crew ; if a flight is delayed beyond a crew 's end of shift , they often must get off the plane to comply with FAA regs and union CBAs . The scheduled replacement crew , however , was supposed to get on at the next stop hundreds of miles away ; so , it 's not just the planes that have to be replaced on a route when a flight is cancelled . In cases of a severe delay extending beyond a normal shift change , the crew either flies the plane if it 's legal and are paid overtime , or if it would be illegal for that crew to continue , an on-call crew is brought in , flies the plane to the scheduled changeover point , then rides a standby seat ( or in the extreme an empty plane ) back to their home terminal or somewhere else they 'll be useful when their shift really starts . All of these considerations and more are weighed by the sophisticated algorithms now used to generate flight schedules . American Airlines calls theirs the " cancellator " , and when a major hub like DFW , ORD or ATL sees a weather shutdown that 's pretty much exactly what it does , sacrificing flights to and from that hub and some of its connectors to try to save what it can of its passenger load for the day ( and thus the airline 's profitability for the quarter ) .
Traditionally , it was almost only movie projectors in the cabin , since Cathode Ray Tubes ( CRT ) were too bulky and impractical to fit . It was also very expensive . I think only with the arrival of LCD displays seatback displays that we know now were made possible . As for cockpit displays , the CRTs were widely used until LCDs were introduced and offered better performance . You can compare the 737 Classic with retrofitted CRT displays with those of the 737 Next Generation . Compare the 747-400 to the 747-8 which had LCD in place of CRT . I ca n't find pictures , but have been told that the old CRT modules were huge , very deep ( which you ca n't see ) and heavy , compare to the thin panel that now is available . You can still backwards order CRT for aircraft . I was flying with one airline that had done on a very new A320 to maintain commonality with the rest of the fleet . The pilots did n't appreciate it though , since it was bad for the eyes , needed to be dimmed and had ( I believe ) inferior resolution . Page 9 of <URL> gives some details on the display type tradeoff .
Origin of the vortices Wake turbulence is easy to understand once you know how a wing creates lift : By deflecting the air flowing across it downwards . In <URL> , I had used the simplification of just accelerating downwards all the air flowing through a circle with a diameter equal to the wingspan , and leaving all other air unaffected . This helps to understand the principle of lift creation , but is too simple , of course , because the downward movement of air will create a void above it , and the air below has to make place for that downward moving streamtube . Also , the pressure field around the wing will affect the air in the vicinity of the streamtube as well , and in consequence air from below will be pushed sideways already by the wing , and the air above will start to flow towards the low pressure area over the wing . This sideways movement will become more pronounced aft of the wing , such that air will continuously be pressed outwards below the wing 's wake , move up left and right of it and inwards above the wake . The inertia of the downwash keeps it moving downwards for several minutes , continuously displacing the air below it and sucking more air into the space above , and that will result in two vortices swirling behind the wing . This is the rolling up of the wake ( see the sketch below , taken from <URL> ) . The vortices are just a consequence of the downward movement of the wake , and this in turn is a consequence of lift creation . Please note that the cores of the vortices are closer together than the wingspan ! This by itself should make clear that they are not caused by air flowing around wingtips , a hard to extinguish misconception . The table below gives calculations of this vortex spacing . The table is also from the <URL> ; note the inclusion of Boeing 's 2707 project ! Strength of the vortices If we again come back to the simplified streamtube approximation , lift is proportional to the mass of air flowing through it per unit of time times the deflection angle . If lift is equal to the aircraft 's mass ( as it should be ) , heavy aircraft need to either accelerate more air ( wider span ) or accelerate air more ( higher deflection angle ) than light aircraft at the same speed . A higher deflection angle will produce more powerful vortices . For that reason , a heavy aircraft at low speed and with a small wingspan will produce the strongest vortices . Since more air flows through the streamtube at higher flight speed , flying faster will require less deflection , making the wake vortices weaker . If the aircraft climbs , air becomes less dense with altitude , and less mass flow over the wing is available , so the vortices grow stronger if the flight speed does not change . Normally , aircraft accelerate when climbing , and the vortex strength will stay the same if the aircraft flies at constant dynamic pressure . Vortices can be avoided in three ways : Infinite wing span ( meaning infinite mass flow , so no deflection is necessary for any lift ) Infinite speed ( again , gives infinite mass flow ) No weight of the aircraft . Flying a zero-g parabola does indeed produce almost no wake turbulence . End of the vortices Inertia will keep the wake moving downwards and the vortices spinning , but friction will let those air movements die down within a few minutes . If the aircraft flies high , the wake is dissipated long before it hits the ground . The wake of low flying aircraft , however , does hit the ground and is deflected . The vortex tube now acts like a wheel and starts moving outward , and if there is a sufficient crosswind , the windward vortex can be arrested as in the right sketch below ( also from the Carten report ) . Photographic evidence There are far too <URL> to not include some , so I will add a few here : You can see that the outer contrails of this Boeing 747 's engines wrap around the contrails of the inner engines . This shows how the air is pushed down in the wake of the wing and that the centers of the vortices are slightly inboard of the outer engines . The condensation traces originating at the winglet tips of this A340 move in - and upward , again showing that the vortex does not originate from the tips but forms behind the wing and with a distance between the two vortex cores of substantially less than the wingspan . These two pictures show how the downwash of the wake is cutting a furrow in the clouds . <URL> MD-11 on a moist day , flaps set for landing . One , it shows how insignificant the tip vortex is compared to vorticity shed at the flap tips , and Two it shows how the tip vortex moves inward and starts to be sucked into the wake vortex . Note also the tip vortices from the tail !
The actual fuel type limitations will be listed in at least two places : the aircraft type certification data sheet ( TCDS ) , and the limitations section of the aircraft Flight Manual , Operating Handbook , or equivalent . The fuel placards placed at the fuel filler ports might not list all approved fuels , or may state " Type X fuel only " when additional fuels may in fact be approved . These placards should be understood as a precaution against inadvertently fueling with an unintended or wrong type of fuel . In some cases ignoring these placards can have <URL> . Some aircraft do indeed have approved emergency fuels . This information would also be found in the limitations listed above . For example , the <URL> for the Beechcraft King Air B200 with PT6A series engines is lists the following for normal approved fuels : Fuel JP-4 , JP-5 ( MIL-T-5624 ) ; JP-8 ( MIL-T-83133 ) ; JET A , JET A-1 , and JET B conforming to P&amp;WC S.B. 1244 or ASTM SPEC . D1655 ; in addition for B200 and B200C Chinese No. 3 Jet Fuel . See NOTE 6 for emergency fuels Note 6 in the TCDS reads as follows : NOTE 6 . Emergency use of MIL-G-5572 : Grades 80/87 , 91/98 , 100/130 , and 115/145 are permitted for a total time period not to exceed 150 hours time between engine overhauls . It is not necessary to purge the unused fuel from the system when switching fuel types . Likewise , the <URL> for the King Air B200 lists the same limitations . The Flight Manual for the King Air B200 also lists these limitations , as applicable , as well as some additional altitude constraints when using emergency fuels due to electric boost pump requirements . In contrast to the actual fuel limitations , the placard placed at the fuel port for the King Air B200 lists very little of the actual limitations : <URL> Source : Beechcraft King Air 200 <URL>
Power Some models are different in power , a consideration if you intend to operate hot and/or high , or heavy . Otherwise that extra power is mostly fuel-inefficient . Competition In situations where two or more alternatives are available , there 's healthy competition . Engines are around 25 % of the cost of a new aircraft , so there would be a big money to gain when airlines bulk order from a certain company . Boeing took this a step further on the B787 where it 's easier than ever to switch the type of engine to prevent this type of ' vendor lock-in ' . Historically , it was very difficult to switch due to the technical complexity in these systems . Customer Relationship If an airline has good contacts with a manufacturer and know how they work , they may prefer to opt for that comfort when considerable money is on the line . Part Commonality The more type of the same engine you operate , the better economies of scale you achieve . This is especially important as substantial maintenance work is concentrated around the engines . This made for instance American Airlines store Boeing 757 aircraft that it got through a company acquisition that did not have the same engine type as the remaining fleet . This thinking is not limited to your company , but for instance within a group of companies , as heavy maintenance is often centralized . It can even apply across types . For instance , Korean Air ordered 787s and 747-8 both with GEnx engines . To quote GE Aviation on the two slightly different engine types : The -2 B contains an identical core and similar materials as the -1 B , delivering synergies for mixed GEnx fleets
I suspect this heavy depends on the type of the aircraft , so lets assume we are considering a small airplane . Absolutely right , it does vary widely . The parameter you 're asking about is called <URL> and it is directly related to another parameter called <URL> or L/D ratio . This is a fundamental characteristic of the aerodynamics of a particular aircraft . L/D ratio varies with airspeed ; for determining best engine-out glide performance , the L/D ratio at " best glide airspeed " is used . " Best glide airspeed " is the speed that maximizes the L/D ratio , and this maximum value is known as L/Dmax . The maximum L/D ratio ( L/Dmax ) of a Cessna 172 is about 9 , so its glide ratio is about 9:1 - for every 9 units traveled forward it will lose 1 unit of altitude . So , it will glide about 9,000 feet for every 1,000 feet of altitude available . This is a fairly typical value for small planes . To show you how widely variable this is , a modern glider can achieve ratios above 60:1 , while the Space Shuttle ranged from about 1:1 at high speed , early in reentry , to 4.5:1 on final approach . Notably , large transport aircraft tend to have significantly higher L/D ratios than small aircraft : a 747 can achieve an L/Dmax of about 17:1 . With an altitude of 33,000 feet ( ~ 10,000 meters ) that would mean a gliding distance of 100 miles ( ~ 170 Km ) . What governs the ' glideability ' of the plane ? As above , its lift-to-drag ratio . Very casually speaking this is just a measure of how " aerodynamic " the airplane is , comparing its capability to generate lift with the drag it creates in the process . The better its lifting capabilities , or the less drag it generates , the higher the ratio . For more information , I highly recommend a free online book on aerodynamics called <URL> by John Denker . It is written for pilots , not mathematicians or physicists , so it explains the concepts very intuitively without a lot of equations . It talks about L/D ratio and explains some of the factors that affect it . ( I would recommend this book to any pilot anyway . ) Is it possible , for an airplane with an engine/engines , to leverage this to save fuel while flying , or are they too heavy/otherwise unable to do this ? Since glide ratio is directly related to ( indeed it 's the same thing as ) L/D ratio , you could say that airplanes already do take advantage of it . The higher their L/D at cruise airspeed , the more fuel-efficient they will be ( because less thrust will be required to counteract drag in steady-state flight ) . If you 're asking about shutting the engines off during approach/landing to save fuel , <URL> which specifically addresses this . ( The answer , in short , is no , it 's not practical . )
The claim that de-icing must have been done perfectly in Brussels or the plane would have crashed on take-off is patent nonsense . Ice on the aircraft degrades performance . A little bit of ice degrades performance a little bit ; a lot of ice degrades performance a lot . It 's perfectly possible that they took off from Brussels with slightly degraded performance , realised that there was still some ice on the plane and decided they needed to get rid of it . There 's no reason to suspect a cover-up . If there was even a hint of terrorism , the plane would have diverted to Stansted , not Heathrow . If the plane had some mechanical problem , they 'd have made a vague statement about the plane having mechanical problems , landed , fixed the problem ( which requires maintenance technicians , not a de-icing crew ) , and then said something much less vague to reassure the 227 passengers that the plane was safe . If there was a problem with the passengers , luggage or cargo , the plane would have gone to a terminal . If a vice-president of the company had been served macadamia nuts in the wrong way , they 'd have dealt with that in Brussels .
In the U.S. , the phrase " Descend via the ( arrival ) " means that you are cleared to the altitudes as published . Without that phrase , simply cleared for the ___ arrival , then your clearance is the fixes , but ATC will assign your altitude explicitly . In this case , the published altitudes may later be assigned , so descent planning should still be based on making the next fix at its altitude . You just do n't go below your assigned altitude until cleared lower . FAA Explanations : Starting on page 8 for " descend via " clearances : <URL> More succinctly : <URL>
The number will vary depending on the aircraft type &amp; installed engines ( how much fuel it holds , and how much fuel it burns per hour at taxi speed ) , but the ballpark figure is " Much less than the range in flight " , because the specific fuel consumption figures ( how much power , and thus distance , you get per unit of fuel burned ) are less favorable during taxi than at cruise . To work an example I used the numbers for an A320 <URL> and not checked it burns 270-330kg / hr ( depending on the engines installed ) so let 's split the difference and say 300kg/hr as an average . The A320 can hold around 15,000 kg of fuel , so doing the division it could run its engines at taxi power for around 45 hours . If we assume a taxi speed of 20kts for 45 hours the aircraft could theoretically taxi 900 nautical miles ( 1036 statute miles , or 1667km ) , a little less than one-third of the range in flight .
Well , the jet bridge does not actually join with the airplane . If you look at the place where the jetbridge and the airplane meet , there is a rubber bumper and some accordion cover ( that just comes down on top of the doorway ) which are the only things which touch the airplane . The two things never actually make a seal where they meet .
The answer to your question strongly depends on what kind of airplane you 're talking about ( in particular , what set of rules it was certificated under ) , as well as the phase of flight you are in ( takeoff vs. cruise vs. approach/landing ) and whether you are in a jet or a ( turbine or piston ) propeller aircraft . ( I 'm going to exclude single-engine airplanes from this discussion , as well . ) Cruise Flight In general , an engine failure in cruise flight is a manageable emergency unless you are in extremely high terrain in a light twin or some other corner case . The general procedure is to " drift down " in a slow-ish descent to your single-engine cruise altitude -- if you do n't already have a driftdown airspeed worked out , you can use Vyse as a substitute to get a slow driftdown -- and then divert to a nearby suitable airport to get the busted engine looked at , as you 'll be flying lower and less fuel-efficiently as a result . Takeoff Takeoff is the most troublesome time for an engine failure to happen , bar none : you are at high gross weight and do n't have altitude under you to turn into airspeed and landing options . What you want to do is get to the pattern altitude , fly a pattern , and land in a reasonably quick , but orderly fashion -- you do n't need to ultra-hurry things even if you have an engine on fire , but you do want to get back on the ground in a reasonable timeframe to get things looked at . Light Twins ( cabin class , commuter , pre-FAR 25 airliners ) These aircraft , unfortunately , struggle in single-engine situations on the best of days , as the certification requirements for single-engine performance in FAR 23 are minimal at best . The common adage you will hear about light twins , even , is " the second engine will carry you to the scene of the crash " -- it is possible for a light twin to be type certificated with nil or negative worst case single-engine climb performance in the case of an engine failure at or shortly after takeoff . Business Jets ( certificated under FAR 23 ) Corporate or business-type light jet aircraft ( Citations , Gulfstreams , LearJets , Beechjets , etal ) and their turboprop counterparts ( such as KingAirs ) , while often certificated under Part 23 , will generally have superior single-engine performance to light twins , although this is by no means guaranteed . You 'll likely get up into the pattern and be able to make a reasonably normal single-engine landing , barring any aggravating factors at least ; this is because even the smallest turbine engines are large enough that the aircraft will have some degree of excess thrust as a twin , leaving it with a thrust reserve in a single engine situation . These aircraft are also flown by pilots with type ratings and a CPL or ATPL , which means they will be more familiar with the performance of that specific aircraft and any aircraft-specific engine-out procedures needed to eke out maximum single-engine climb rates . Twin-Engine Airliners ( transport class twin turboprops and twin jets certified under FAR 25 ) The FAR 25 requirements for engine-out takeoff performance are much more stringent than FAR 23 , and practically guarantee that the aircraft is capable of positive climb in a V1 cut ( engine failure right after decision speed ) at maximum takeoff weight . In addition , V1 cuts are a classic airline training scenario that every airline flight crew on the planet runs in the sim on a regular basis ( I would n't be surprised if a V1 cut came up every few sim sessions or so , if not every sim session ) . In a practical sense , this means that unless the aircraft is overloaded or is suffering from something beyond a simple engine failure ( I 'll talk about that later ) , an airline flight crew will handle engine failure on takeoff in an airliner as a routine event . 3 and 4 engine airliners A single engine failure on a three or four engine aircraft is by no means critical , especially on three - and four-engined jet transports . This does n't mean that 747 crews do n't practice V1 cuts any longer , though ! Props vs Jets Engine failure in a jet , whether it be a T-37 or an A380 , is simple : you put appropriate rudder in , ID which engine died ( between your instruments and " dead foot , dead engine " , you should have enough data to go on ) , add power as needed on the working engine ( say , if you are doing an assumed/FLEX temp takeoff ) , and kill the dead engine , then run the rest of the checklist at a leisurely pace now that safe flight is more-or-less assured . Propeller aircraft are a bit more complicated though in that you need to <URL> the dead engine 's propeller to keep it from dragging the airplane down -- older constant-speed prop designs such as those on warbirds and piston-engine airliners had FEATHER buttons for this job , one per engine ; newer aircraft with constant-speed props have a gate on either the power or the condition levers that serves in place of the feathering button . You also have more levers to manipulate when adding power to the working engine ( s ) and kill
There is no standard because there 's no standard emergency . The response to " Say fuel onboard " ( or the way the question is phrased ) depends on who cares most about the answer . Fuel Remaining ( in minutes ) This is how you report it when you declare a minimum fuel emergency , and it 's most useful for approach and tower controllers to know exactly how long they have to get you on the ground before your engine gets quiet ( and if they can get you to an airport in that timeframe ) . Fuel Remaining ( in hours ) This is what you 'll give for most general emergencies , and also what 's entered on flight plans . It 's the most generally useful number to a pilot or controller . If you 're VFR-only pilot stuck on top of an overcast and call ATC with a pan ( urgency ) message because ca n't see a way through the controller will want to know how far they can vector you to find a hole before it becomes a fuel emergency too . Fuel Onboard ( in Pounds/Kilograms or Gallons/Liters ) The folks who care about this number drive around in ugly fire trucks wearing silver jumpsuits ( the ARFF crews ) : If the worst happens they want to know how big a fire they might have to deal with , and how much foam they 're going to need to handle it .
For the general question , the answer will be " it depends on the aircraft . " Specifically for the 787 , though , the ' 7E7 ' program was officially announced on <URL> . The program was later renamed to 787 . It received its type certificate on <URL> and flew its first passenger revenue flight on <URL> . So , from the time the program began to the time of the first revenue flight was about 8 years and 9 months . Of course , this is not including the R&amp;D time invested on different projects whose R&amp;D ended up being used either partially or completely in the 787 design before the 787 program itself began . It should also be noted that not every airframe they start developing ever actually flies . Notably , Boeing worked on designs including <URL> and the <URL> ( which would have cruised at Mach 0.98 ) before beginning the 7E7 program . In addition to completely new airframes , aircraft manufacturers also commonly make derivative airframes based on existing product families . Current examples of derivatives in development include the <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> ( " neo " stands for " new engine option . " ) However , development time on derivatives can vary widely depending on how much modification is being made to the existing airframes and the level of resources being devoted to the project ( which depends on market pressure . ) For a past example , the 2nd-generation Boeing 777 aircraft were announced on <URL> with the first aircraft , the 777-300ER , being certificated on <URL> , and first service entry on <URL> . This gives a time of about 4 years and 2 months from announcement to first service entry . This was likely slowed by the sharp downturn in aircraft orders following the 1999-2000 " . com bust " and , especially , the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S. Also important is the FAA rule for applying for a type certificate . This will apply for new programs like the 787 , but not for derivative programs like the 777X , which amend the original type certificate and do not need a new one . In <URL> : An application for type certification of a transport category aircraft is effective for 5 years and an application for any other type certificate is effective for 3 years ... So once Boeing applies for a new type certificate , they have 5 years to get the type cetificate approved , unless they convince the FAA upfront that more time is needed . If the time runs out they must reapply , and the new type certificate would require the aircraft to comply with all new regulations passed since their original application .
Yes , you are correct . You need three pieces of information : airspeed true compass heading ( considering magnetic variation ) multiple absolute position fixes ( eg . from gps ) The aircraft heading has to be measured by a compass within the aircraft ( it ca n't be derived from the gps track ) , and the gps position can be used to look up the local magnetic variation . The difference between the speed/heading and the ground track ( in straight and level flight , anyway ) is attributable to winds aloft .
@Lnafziger is correct that absolutely ZERO contact between aircraft flying in formation is acceptable , with Aerial Refueling ( AR ) being the sole exception to this -- but in that case the AR equipment is designed to allow for what 's going on . The problem with contact IS the significant risk of damage to the aircraft involved , so the assumption in " assuming no damage is caused , how much impact ... " is outside of typical experience . IF you could assure no damage , then all sorts of things might be possible , but even pretty stoutly built fighter jets still are n't " bumper cars " and should n't be treated as such . Even if a collision did n't cause an immediate structural failure , the risk of damage to the internal structure of the wing/tail/whatever would be enough that the aircraft would have to be taken apart &amp; xray 'd ( or another non-destructive inspection method ) to ensure that there was n't damage that would later result in structural failure . The one exception to all of this that I can recall was a technique that the RAF used in WW II to defeat the V-1 " buzz bomb " cruise missiles . While the Spitfires could shoot them down , the small size of the missile meant that you had to get so close that you were probably flying through a cloud of debris right after you killed it ( i.e. the warhead would detonate and the shrapnel might bring down the Spitfire as well ) . They discovered that the gyroscopes in the V-1 guidance ( i.e. the primitive autopilot ) would tumble if they were inverted , so some pilots would fly formation with the V-1 then intentionally make contact with its wing with their own , flipping the buzz bomb onto its back . At this point , the autopilot lost its bearings and the V-1 went down into ( presumably ! ) empty countryside , crashing far from its London target . Other than this , formation flight is carefully planned out so as to minimize all risk of contact between the aircraft . Even in the ( very cool ! ) video of the Blue Angels , you can see that there is always space between the wingtips -- more space for the more dynamic maneuvers , with the least space during a fairly brief and reasonably stable pass . Remember , these pilots are extremely good &amp; highly experienced in this sort of formation flying , and while there IS oscillation in pitch &amp; roll , the formation is designed so that this can safely go on . There just is n't much risk there of a force that would move one aircraft directly to the left or right of its position . Turbulence might produce a rolling or pitching motion that could LEAD TO a collision , but the pilots have enough control authority to correct these sorts of forces . That 's why they 're able to do what they do , safely . Fly Navy !
Yes , this is the system used on the Boeing 737 . As the document mentions , it is similar to the system design on the Boeing 757 and 767 models .
There is a similar ruling since last week . The use of electronic equipment as long as they are in " flight mode " during all phases of flight was already allowed in Europe by EASA since <URL> . Since last week ( <URL> ) EASA also allows phones to be on and connected throughout the flight . This allows for WiFi services , phone services and Bluetooth battles during the flight . Before allowing the use of these electronics in flight , airlines have to assess the impact of the signals transmitted by the mobile devices on the aircraft , ensuring aircraft systems are not affected . For this reason mobile communication will not be allowed by all airlines on all flights at once .
You do not calculate indicated airspeed : It is an indicated value , you read it from the airspeed indicator . ( I suppose you can calculate it if you really want to , but I 've got no idea why you would want to do so in the context of flight planning . ) You determine what airspeed to use for flight planning purposes using your aircraft 's performance data ( from the POH or other manufacturer documents ) : There will usually be either a chart or a table giving true airspeed as a function of power setting and density altitude . ( True Airspeed is a more useful number for planning purposes as it saves you a calculation . ) <URL> <URL> When in flight you can calculate your true airspeed based on the indicated airspeed and density altitude . You can then compare this to your planned figures from the performance charts to determine if adjustments are necessary to your flight plan ( ETA , Fuel use , etc. )
You can cross behind the aircraft on departure roll . This type of operation is done heavily at ATL , on the middle complex during an east flow . Aircraft will depart runway 9L at M2 , and arrivals from either of the south runway will cross behind them the whole time at M1 , to get up to the gates .
<URL> has a lot of programs . Government programs are confusing . Regarding the two you mention ... Global Entry basically expedites the Customs process for pre-approved travelers , making use of an automated kiosk . The service is available at <URL> , generally major aiports . ClearlyNormally , this program is meant for the commercial traveler . However , large international GA destinations can have this service as well . Example : FLL , one of the nation 's busiest international GA airports . <URL> . <URL> means that traveler processing/aircraft inspection are handled before the flight , rather than upon arrival in the US . But , this is n't very widespread yet . Private aircraft preclearance processing is only available at Shannon , Ireland and Oranjestad , Aruba . And the list of airports you can fly to , from what I have seen , is smaller than the list of Ports of Entry . So no , neither of these programs really helps you out as a Canada/US travelling GA pilot . They are n't for small airports . You have to deal with <URL> , and <URL> :)
end question
start question
Is it possible that derated thrust takeoffs are safer than normal takeoffs ?
The reasons presented at ground school for the benefits of de-rated thrust takeoffs were twofold : less chance of catastrophic engine failure during takeoff less overall wear between overhauls It is from this standpoint that reduced thrust takeoffs are safer . As you point out , these are only authorized when the weights , temperature and runway length allow , but for the EMB-145 virtually every takeoff we did was eligible for reduced thrust . You point about ease of control with an engine out is countered by engine out procedures which involve setting max thrust on the remaining engine ( for two-engine ops ) . During takeoff roll in the EMB-145XR , this puts the other engine at 117 % power . With the exception of flying near $ V _ { MC } $ ( for light twins ) the extra thrust is a benefit and not a hindrance to control and if this is at or after $ V_1 $ you 'll want the thrust to go flying . Your question about a bird strike is going to go one of two ways : the bird hits the N1 fan and goes through the bypass ducting the bird hits the N1 fan and is ingested into the N2 compressor stages In either scenario a reduced thrust vs full thrust takeoff is not going to make a huge difference , but scenario 2 will be far more destructive to the engine than scenario 1 .
Estimations We can at least estimate a reverse thrust case based on some numbers and some physics , a bit of a specific case of <URL> . The stopping distance equation : $ $ d_f = \ frac { v_i ^ 2 } { 2a } $ $ The information <URL> for the 727-200 gives stopping distances for different cases . If we look at a sea level pressure altitude case with 120,000 lb gross weight , the stopping distance is 2452 feet . The correction for a reversers only case is 2.57 , bringing the distance to 6302 . At a landing speed of <URL> , the plane will take 11500 lb of force to stop in that distance . Each engine on the 727-200 provides 14500 lb of thrust force maximum . Considering that part of the stopping force will be provided by drag and surface friction , the reverse thrust is about 25 % of the maximum forward thrust . The reversers will be more effective at higher air speeds , so the maximum will be higher than this . Figure 39.5 <URL> shows a graph of reverse thrust compared to forward thrust for different bypass ratios and reverse thrust types . This is a good check for a general case . The GEnx-1B64 has a bypass ratio of about 10 , and reverses the fan but not the primary exhaust , which gives a ratio of 30 % of maximum forward thrust . Summary The engine will not run at full power when in reverse mode , so accounting for this and the bypass ratio will leave you with about states that modern thrust reversers can convert up to <URL> of their forward thrust into reverse thrust .
You ca n't control the radio volume separately for the passengers but you can control the intercom volume separately . If the passengers ' headsets have individual volume controls you can ask them to turn down the volume and you can then compensate by turning up the passenger volume for the intercom . That way the overall intercom volume will be about the same but the radio/ATC volume will be lowered . If all else fails , you could turn off the radio completely for your passengers :-)
Absolutely not , as it would not be in the sense of security . It would block engine sounds ( eg you wo n't be able to hear a rough engine ) It would block warning sounds , for example stall warnings It would block any other abnormal sounds You will have problems understanding ATC ( and they will have even more problems understanding you ) These are just some reasons out of my head . If you want to listen to music inflight , buy a good headset with an AUX-In socket , those normally reduce the volume as soon as a transmission is incoming . And apart from the audio volume , it would also put a high load on the battery / alternator , which are probably not able to handle such a high load .
fooot has pointed out the <URL> ( powers the B-1 Lancer ) has a BPR ( bypass ratio ) of > 2:1 and comes with an afterburner . Other examples are the <URL> ( 1.1:1 ) and the <URL> ( 0.97:1 ) . Generally , anything <URL> is a low BPR , and bypass air is needed for cooling . Pure turbojets resort to other means of cooling , such as the ram air inlet <URL> , or they run inefficiently at low combustion temperatures . I ca n't speak for the inner workings of a classified military engine , but an ideal supersonic engine would be a variable cycle engine ( VCE ) . Operating with bypass in the subsonic regime , and without in the supersonic high-power demand regime . Such theoretical ( to the public at least ) examples from the 90 's are shown ( and linked ) below . Do note the idea behind the VCE is the elimination of the wasteful and noisy afterburner . So , it 's an either/or situation . A dual operation of afterburner and high bypass in a non-VCE would not have benefits . <URL> ( <URL> ) Image shows how a VCE routes the bypass air in both modes of operation . Other variations by RR and Snecma can be <URL> . Note the novel design of the Snecma with the free-turbine -- extra-fan . VCE 's would definitely be heavier and more complex engines . Related : <URL>
Refueling with passengers onboard is quite normal and is done according to the recommendations of regulatory bodies/manufacturers and operators . Refueling with some fuel types are not permitted , while others are . From <URL> : Refueling with wide cut gasoline type fuel ( JET B , JP4 or equivalent ) or when a mixture with these types of fuel might occur , is not permitted with passengers boarding , on board or disembarking . Refueling with Kerosene ( JET A , JET A1 JP8 , TS1 , RT , TH or equivalent , as approved by the approved Aircraft Flight Manual ) , is allowed when passengers are boarding , on board , or disembarking . Some precautions are required to be followed in case refueling is done with passengers on board . The announcement you heard is simply following that . From <URL> : ( a ) An operator must establish operational procedures for e/defuelling with passengers embarking , on board or disembarking o ensure the following precautions are taken : ( 1 ) One qualified person must remain at a specified location during fuelling operations with passengers n board . This qualified person must be capable of handling emergency procedures concerning fire protection and fire-fighting , handling communications and initiating and directing an evacuation ; ( 2 ) A two-way communication shall be established and shall remain available by the aeroplane 's inter-communication system or other suitable means between the ground crew supervising the refuelling and the qualified personnel on board the aeroplane ; ( 3 ) Crew , staff and passengers must be warned that re/defuelling will take place ; ( 4 ) Fasten eat Belts ' signs must be off ; ( 5 ) ' NO SMOKING ' signs must be on , together with interior lighting to enable emergency exits to be identified ; ( 6 ) Passengers must be instructed to unfasten their seat belts and refrain from smoking ; ( 7 ) Sufficient qualified personnel must e on board and be prepared for an immediate emergency evacuation ; ( 8 ) If the presence of fuel vapour is detected inside the aeroplane , or any other hazard arises during re/defuelling , fuelling must be stopped immediately ; ( 9 ) The ground area beneath the exits intended or emergency evacuation and slide deployment areas must be kept clear ; and ( 10 ) Provision is made for a safe and rapid evacuation . You 're right about the announcement and leaving seat belt open - it is to help in quick evacuation . The flight crew is just following the procedure .
For the US , this is covered in <URL> , or in a more human-interpretable way from an <URL> . When are you required to use your aircraft registration By default unless you have a callsign Can anyone use whatever call sign they want or is it limited to airlines only ? What you use must be registered . For international flights if you fly frequently enough you can get a 3 letter ICAO designator ( SWA , DAL , UAL , etc. ) There are national callsigns which are detailed in that letter , and local callsigns which may apply only to your tower , TRACON , or center depending on who you talk to and what their own rules for issuing a letter of agreement to use it are .
There is an excellent answer at <URL> The <URL> is a ground attack fighter unsuited to intercepting and/or shooting down 777s . If the Ukrainian air force wanted to do so , they have better aircraft available . The SU-25 max speed is slower than a cruising 777 . The SU-25 has an operational ceiling of 16000 ft with max weapons to 23000 ft clean , MH17 was at 33000 ft. It is an unpressurised aircraft . As a ground attack aircraft it probably only rarely carries air to air missiles . It can carry the R-60 infra-red air-to-air missile which has a 6 lb warhead effective against small aircraft . An R-60 once hit and destroyed one engine of a small BAE 125 business jet at 35000 ft but failed to bring it down , apparently the missile failed to explode . <URL> , a Boeing 707 , was hit by an R-60 and made an emergency landing 40 minutes later . The R-60 is a short-range missile ( 5 miles ) . The Russians claim the SU-25 came within two or three miles of MH17 . On the whole this makes the SU-25 a poor choice for shooting down a cruising 777 . It seems unlikely that a 777 would be shot down in this way . Not impossible , but far less likely than other proposed scenarios such as those involving BUK ( SA-11 ) ground to air missiles . Results of an <URL> . Results of an <URL> ... two R-60s were launched , one missed . These R-60s were fired by supersonic interceptors , not by SU-25 ground-attack aircraft .
I understand your question as : " do we have yet the required interfaces for a computer to fully interact with an aircraft " . This is indeed the prerequisite before any intelligent system can pilot an aircraft . That means could we yet plug a system into some bus to receive all signals available to a human pilot and send all commands a human pilot can issue . The answer is no ( e.g. a computer can not lower the gears or receive electronic signals from the wet compass ) , but the required updates are not so large and involve limited retrofitting . Of course , we do n't have this computer yet , but this kind of software is not a huge step either ( and anyway this is not in the scope of your question ) . Would such system be economically profitable for an airline in term of safety , certification , operational cost , software maintenance , compared to a human first officer ? If the answer is yes , then this is a matter of maybe 10 years before a full electronic pilot is tested . I doubt the answer is yes , it could be useful , but it will have an additional cost , so there could be a long time before we see it in a cockpit .
It depends what you mean by " glider " . If you mean any craft that trades height for horizontal movement while flying without engines then yes . See the space shuttle . If you mean a craft designed to fly without engine power while losing as little height as possible and exploiting thermals then no . The problem is as you lose height you gain speed and when there is no significant atmosphere you have no good way of getting rid of that speed . So you inevitably hit the atmosphere extremely fast . The difficult part of coming back from space is losing speed to atmospheric drag without your craft burning up or ripping itself apart in the process . To reenter in one peice requires thick heat shields to avoid burning up and a compact shape and robust construction to avoid breaking up . To fly for a long time without engine power while losing as little height as possible requires a lightweight construction with long slender wings . These requirements are mutually exclusive . I did some quick searches to put this in perspective . Afaict a modern glider has a glide ratio of about 50 , a 747 has a glide ratio of about 15 , concorde has a glide ratio of about 9 and the space shuttle has a glide ratio of about 1 .
The device you are talking about is called a <URL> . This is a device that listens for a signal ( an interrogation ) and responds with information about the airplane including an ATC assigned code , altitude information and additional aircraft info for certain equipment . There are 2 ways ATC watches airplanes : <URL> <URL> The transponder is interrogated by the Secondary radar and the response is listened for . Even with no transponder , the aircraft can still be tracked by primary radar . This is just a normal radar that is good at seeing airplane sized objects and not so great at seeing weather and can occasionally spot a large flock of birds . The primary radar is what provides the " blip " on radar and tracks the airplane . The datablock ATC has on the airplane comes from the secondary , so what ATC will see is a blip with no information . Turning off the transponder is as simple as setting it to OFF or pulling a circuit breaker and yes , it can be selected OFF in flight , it is just a switch . The problem with radar is that it only works so far from a radar transmitter and the further away you are the higher you must be to be seen by the radar . Over the ocean away from land , you are going to be on the fringe of radar or out of radar contact completely and thus unable to be tracked directly by ATC ( at this point , non-radar procedures such as position reporting and ETAs can be used to track positions ) . The flight in question was apparently visible by a military radar before it disappeared from the scopes ( it allegedly observed what appeared to be a turn back toward its origin ) .
To my surprise , this does exist , at least in the UK . According to the <URL> : 7 Emergency Triangle Procedure 7.1 Pilots lost or uncertain of position and experiencing either transmitter or complete radio failure are advised , as a last resort , to carry out special procedures to indicate to controllers that they require assistance . 7.2 The aircraft fly at least two triangular patterns , before resuming course , as follows : Table 1 : <URL> 7.3 If a triangular pattern is observed , controllers shall advise the D&amp;D cell of the position and track and continue to plot the aircraft whilst it is within ATS surveillance system cover . Controllers should also be aware of the effect wind may have on the pilot 's ability to fly an accurate triangle . I say " to my surprise " because there are well-established procedures for <URL> and <URL> . But having said that , it 's possible that the triangle procedure is more useful in the UK ( for example ) than the US , where there are usually plenty of uncontrolled airports around and many pilots have no need to talk to ATC anyway . In the UK , with a much smaller airspace , fewer airports and more ATC control ( at least , that 's my understanding ) , it may be more critical to give even VFR aircraft a " last resort " to contact ATC .
It 's not so much that thrust reversers ( TRs ) are more unreliable than other components of the plane . However , they have a very important impact on the airplane 's performance . Hydraulics , flaps , and even engines fail regularly . But <URL> and <URL> can be backed up by redundant systems , and an airplane can still <URL> . But engineers learned from <URL> that an airplane may not be controllable if the TRs deploy in flight . So in the interest of safety , the TRs have additional precautions . The reasons for not aborting a landing after they are deployed are discussed in your first linked question . Reliability is also not the only reason for having no TRs on the A380 outboard engines , as discussed in the second linked question . So to answer your question , there is indeed a technical challenge in making the TRs reliable : they absolutely must not deploy in flight . This means many safeguards are put in place , and they are designed to fail by not deploying if there is any doubt about whether it is safe . A TR that wo n't deploy is more desirable than a TR that deploys when you do n't want it to .
Possible : Yes You can in theory lift anything . To do this you will simply need to generate an equal or exceeding amount of lift than the weight of the object . You will also need to generate enough thrust to achieve said situation . The closest thing I can think of to this was <URL> which did actually fly . If you are talking about the kind of vertical hovering that the ship in the movie does you would need to generate an amazing amount of thrust to achieve that . A US <URL> displaces 100,000 long tons ( 224,000,000 LBS ) so you would need to generate at least that much thrust but in reality you would need to generate more to overcome drag and to actually accelerate the craft vertically . For a point of comparison the <URL> weighed 3270 tons ( 6,540,000 pounds ) . If we work through a quick example ( these are very very lose numbers ) , lets take the Nimitz at 224,000,000 LBS and the <URL> ( currently the biggest turbo fan jet ) . The GE90 generates about 115,000 lbf of thrust . So it would take just under 2000 GE90s to generate enough thrust . But lets round it off at 2000 for ease of use and a bit of extra power . The diameter of the engine is 3.429 m and the Nimitz is 332.8 m long . You would need arms with 10 engines a piece just to make all 2000 engines fit down the length of the side . If they were stacked directly next to each other the arms would be about 35m in length . The bigger issue here is fuel flow/mass . You would need to lift enough fuel to actually power these engines for a useable amount of time . On the more sifi side of things , you could use the Nimitz 's nuclear reactor to power ducted fans which overcomes the fuel problem to an extent but I dont have any numbers on that .
The engine does not move , the air flow is only redirected . The method of redirecting the flow varies with the size , configuration , and manufacturer of the engine . The flow does not need to be directed completely forward ; the flow is generally mostly outwards and partially foward . This is still enough to create significant drag and slow the aircraft down . In smaller and older engines , the entire flow is redirected . This corresponds to the first to configurations below . Buckets or clamshell doors close over the jet flow to redirect the air . In larger engines , particularly high-bypass turbofans , only part of the air is redirected . This corresponds to the last configuration below . The core air from the engine still exits normall , but the bypass air from the fan is redirected . Since the bypass air on these engines is a much greater flow than the engine core air , this results in a net reverse thrust . There are multiple mechanisms , but the general idea is to deploy doors that block the bypass air and send it through the sides of the engine cowl . Turboprop aircraft just change the pitch of the propeller blades such that the propeller pushes air forward instead of backward . The pitch in which the blades provide reverse thrust is called the " beta range . " In civil aircraft , reverse thrust is only used when on the ground . There are typically interlocks in the system that prevent the thrust reversers from deploying if the aircraft does not sense that it is on the ground . Once the aircraft touches down , the pilot will deploy the reverse thrust . Some military aircraft like the C-17 can use reverse thrust in the air . This enables them to perform very steep descents . Reverse thrust is more of an " optional " method of braking ( see this <URL> ) , only to provide extra stopping power when needed . This particularly helps when braking force is less effective , such as in rain or snow . Before landing , pilots will take into account the wind , aircraft weight , runway length , and any contamination of the runway ( rain or snow ) . Based on this they will know what kind of braking force is needed and whether they should use thrust reversers . The thrust reversers do n't always have to be operational for an aircraft to fly . Some operators choose to disable them , which decreases maintenance costs . The thrust reversers can also break , in which case they will be mechanically locked to prevent them from deploying until they can be fixed . Pilots will consider this when they are computing their landing distance .
Yes , I have personally worked on multiple aircraft that were infested by animals . All of these aircraft were small planes , single engine Cessnas for example . A typical example would be one or two small mouse nests in the wings . I also found at least one wasp nest in an aircraft wing . The worst I ever saw was a Mooney that had extensive mouse nests throughout the airframe . That aircraft had been unairworthy for at least a year by the time I saw it . That Mooney ended up being parted out and scrapped , largely because of extensive corrosion in the wings which was either caused by , or aggravated by , the mouse nests . Urea can induce corrosion in aluminum , and finding a mouse nest or other evidence of rodent activity should prompt closer inspection . All the other instances of mouse nests that I have found in airframes were in aircraft that flew several hundred hours a year and these did not suffer any major damage . I have also heard stories from many pilots and mechanics of finding birds nests -- for example in engine intakes or the empennage -- and of rodents chewing into or through electrical wiring . There is also the classic warning to check the pitot tube in case a mud wasp has clogged the intake with a nest . I have never witnessed any of these occurrences myself . The mud dauber wasp is notorious and is suspected of being a contributing factor in at least one fatal airline accident that I am familiar with : <URL> . <URL> Photo <URL> , courtesy of the FAA Many means of prevention are available , including typical pest prevention methods such as traps and poisons -- in my experience all reserved for use in the storage hanger . The most aviation specific forms are the various covers used to protect <URL> , <URL> , etc. . <URL> Photo <URL> , courtesy of the FAA As far as the possibility of animals surviving , I suppose the odds are low . I have never encountered a live animal in an airplane ( pets excepted ) . For any animal stowing away on a pressurized aircraft operating at high altitude I should think the low oxygen partial pressure and temperature would both discourage survival outside the pressure vessel . Some flights , particularly international ones , apparently make a practice of spraying some form of pesticide in the cabin to kill mosquitoes and other unwanted creatures .
In theory it could be done , you could rapidly dump fuel into empty tanks below the wings and drop them . At a certain height they deploy Parachutes and land . Just like the Space Shuttle ejects the side tanks . But where ? Some fuel dumps are only authorized over water and it would cost more to rescue the tanks and bring them back to the airline . Over land they 'd probably smash into populated areas . The cost for saving some thousands of $ of fuel is not fesable for the rescue . Short answer yeah it could be possible , but dangerous and costly .
Whether to use a static or a rolling takeoff is usually at the discretion of the captain as long as performance is not an issue and ATC does n't need you to wait on the runway . Reasons to do a static takeoff include : Less runway is required Better obstacle clearance ( mainly because of the earlier liftoff ) Takeoff engine power can be confirmed prior to brake release ATC may require an aircraft to wait on the runway due to wake turbulence separation requirements The aircraft manufacturer may not allow a rolling takeoff Reasons to do a rolling takeoff : There is sufficient runway available Obstacles are not an issue Takeoff engine power can be set relatively quickly and an abort can still be made at a low speed They take less time to perform , and at busy airports this can mean getting another airplane or two out/in per hour They offer more passenger comfort because of the smoother acceleration Not all airplanes provide performance information for rolling take offs . In this case , a commonly used technique is to ensure that takeoff power is set by a certain point on the runway and adding that distance to your calculated takeoff roll for planning purposes .
There are 4 classes of cargo compartments listed in <URL> for transport category airplanes . The main concern with in-flight access is in regards to fire safety . Class A : Crew will easily discover fire from their station ( and therefore be able to suppress it as well ) Class B : There is a fire/smoke detection system , and access for crewmember to use a hand fire extinguisher Class C : There is a fire/smoke detection system to alert the crew , and a fire extinguishing/suppressing system installed Class E : For cargo-only aircraft ( no passengers ) : There is a fire/smoke detector , and a way to shut off air flow to the compartment So basically , there has to be some way to both detect and address a cargo fire . Class A compartments are those such as in the cockpit where a detection system is not necessary . It sounds like the ATR example would be Class B , since they had a fire indication , and the crew had access to extinguish the fire themselves . In larger planes with cargo in the lower hold , the compartments are usually Class C , so they have a detection system and a suppression system , and in-flight access is not required . As <URL> notes , the compartment may be accessible , but that does n't mean that crew could effectively locate or fight a fire in those areas . Especially for large cargo holds , a fire suppression system installed througout the hold is much more effective than crew members gaining access at certain locations . This also provides the benefit of isolating the main cabin from the fire extinguishing agents . Besides fires , there are <URL> where cargo compartment access could be helpful . But even in that case , it was better for the plane to just come back and land to access the cargo compartment .
Of course it is possible . But it does not improve the outcome . Swing wings were a fad of the Sixties . They never fulfilled their early promises , because the actuation mechanism is heavy . Variable sweep is only justifiable when the aircraft will fly both sub - and supersonically for extended periods . It turned out that the part of most missions which is spent at supersonic speeds is a lot smaller than anticipated in the Sixties . Just take the <URL> : Designed for supersonic penetration ( B-1A ) it became a subsonic low-lever terrain following strike aircraft ( B-1B ) . For stealth , <URL> is an important design principle . Making wing sweep variable is to throw this overboard , compromising the whole strategy of stealth . Also , the best stealthiness is only possible in subsonic flight - airframe heating at supersonic speed will broadcast the aircraft 's presence to everyone with a low-cost infrared sensor .
end question
start question
What do jet pilots say during the takeoff as they are speeding down the runway ?
What you are hearing is " V-One " , written as V1 . It actually is said when they can no longer safely abort the takeoff with the remaining runway , but they still are not quite ready to takeoff . As they get a little faster , there should then be a second callout of " Rotate " when they have achieved the required takeoff speed , and that is when they actually takeoff . To answer the " why " part , it is said by the pilot who is n't actually flying the airplane since he has more time to monitor the speed and can say it at exactly the right time . It alerts the other pilot that it is no longer safe to abort the takeoff and that pretty much no matter what happens now , they should continue and come back to land if needed . Edit : In my answer above , I simplified somewhat by only mentioning the available runway . There are other factors that can come into play even with a runway that is longer than needed . One example would be the speed after which the brakes can no longer stop the airplane because they would over-heat and become ineffective . This is known as the brake energy limit , and it is not safe to abort above this speed , even if you have " plenty " of runway . V1 must be calculated or looked up prior to every takeoff , along with the other performance numbers . They vary based on the weight of the aircraft , the configuration of the aircraft , the altitude of the runway , and the weather ( outside temperature , wind , etc. ) . Sometimes this is done via a computer and sometimes manually via lookup tables or even graphs . For an example of the graphs , and more information about how temperature and altitude affect takeoff performance , see my previous answer here : <URL> There are also times when a pilot may increase or decrease V1 intentionally , even when it is not required . For instance , if there is wet ice on the runway it may not be safe to abort even at a very low speed , so you would be forced to continue no matter what ( note that I 'm NOT saying that this is a good idea ) . Using a lower power setting to extend engine life is another example , and you can read about it in my question here : <URL> For way more information than you probably care about takeoff performance , see my other answer here : <URL> In closing , aircraft performance planning is a rather complicated subject and it is only one of many subjects that we must master in order to safely fly an airplane . This only just scratches the surface of it , and there is a lot more that must be considered ( such as " hey , will we be able to out-climb that tree off the end of the runway ? " ) .
do they fly in a pilot ( like mid-air refuel ) ? No , that is n't really feasible ! See answers to <URL> do they leave it to the co-pilot to take care of such situations ? Yes . In both normal and emergency situations , the co-pilot is able to fly the aircraft , navigate to a nearby airport and land the aircraft without the assistance of the senior pilot . From <URL> Here are some lines of defense : The remaining pilot must assume or maintain control Establish a safe flight profile and engage the autopilot ; use all possible automation Obtain cabin crew assistance Inform ATC If on an extended-range twin-engine operations ( ETOPS ) flight , the remaining pilot or PIC must assess whether to continue the flight , return to the departure airport or divert . The decision is based on : Weather conditions at the destination or alternate Reduction of flight time if diverting Workload involved in single-pilot operation Familiarity with the alternate Condition of the incapacitated pilot Availability of medical assistance Overall safety of the flight Arrange medical assistance upon arrival Brief a cabin crew member to assist if required Complete the approach and landing using the autopilot as much as possible A partially incapacitated pilot should not be allowed to participate in the subsequent operation of the aircraft , as judgment may be impaired After landing , seek immediate medical assistance See also <URL> The remaining pilot must first assume command and maintain control of the aircraft . Furthermore the position of essential controls and switches should be checked , and in nearly all cases , use of the autopilot should be made and an emergency be declared . Use of the autopilot and priority of air traffic service are two obvious and effective ways of maintaining a tolerable level of workload . The second step is to take care of the incapacitated flight crew member . The grounds for this are not entirely humanitarian ; if left unattended an incapacitated pilot can become a major problem and in any case is a major distraction to the remaining crew . Thus the incapacitated pilot must be moved out of the range of flight controls . In all cases , the advisability of removing a pilot ( perhaps unconscious ) from the seat must be dictated by consideration of the phase of the flight , the crew available , and the contours of the flight deck . Note : Consideration of the restraint and care of an incapacitated pilot dictates that cabin attendants are at least familiar with the operation of harness and seat controls Finally , and after the incapacitated flight crew member has been taken care of , the remaining flight crew should re-organise the cockpit work and prepare for landing . Details will depend on many variables including such considerations as the type of aircraft being flown , phase of flight , en route and terminal weather , and many others . How does commercial airlines prepare themselves for these kind of situations . I imagine that it involves the usual measures make pilots take regular medical tests . make pilots responsible for reporting own or crew illness , fatigue etc. prevent pilots eating the same meals in-flight . write procedures for pilot incapacitation in-flight . train flight crew to perform those procedures review and revise the above based on experience of relevant events . From what I 've read , non-pilot flight-crew are often given very basic training so that they understand the basics of flight . For example <URL> requires flight attendants initial training to include a pilot-incapacitation drill , an understanding of aircraft parts including rudder , ailerons etc , principles of flight , etc etc. . Do they specifically check if there are any pilots in the passenger manifest I believe the airline staff would often be aware of any airline pilots onboard ( e.g. <URL> ) but not of GA or military pilots flying as normal passengers .
The short answer is , it depends . The FAA Airplane Flying Handbook merely states that this can be performed once the aircraft has established positive climb , but does not specify exactly when . Ultimately two situations arise : The airplane is sufficiently large/high performance that normal operating procedures specify the use of flaps for all takeoff scenarios , in which case the manufacturer or the operator ( if applicable ) may well specify a flap retraction schedule , which seeks to allow the aircraft to accelerate effectively during climb out , avoid overstressing the flaps by having the aircraft fly past the maximum speed for each flap setting , while at the same time maintain a comfortable margin above stall speed . The airplane only requires flaps for certain kinds of takeoffs such as maximum performance or soft-field efforts . In that case , procedures may be somewhat looser in defining the exact moment of flap retraction . A climb checklist , should you choose to use one , will likely mention the flap configuration as an action/verification item , so that would likely be a good moment to retract them if you have n't done so already . Personally , I usually retract them passing thru 200-300 feet AGL , which usually coincides to the aircraft being at least half-way between clean configuration Vx and Vy ( I 've been mostly flying Skyhawks , Skylanes , Arrows , and Huskies ) . Whichever way you do it though , you want to avoid retracting them too low and too slow , but also forgetting about them and blowing through Vfe ( which even light , slow airplanes can do quite handily ) . With respect to the actual changes in aircraft behavior the changes , you 'll likely notice the following things : A slight-nose down moment as wing 's characteristics change , which influences the airflow reaching your horizontal stabilizer . The converse applies when extending flaps . Mind you , this is an airplane model-specific thing and one that seemed most noticeable to me in the Cessna family of light singles . Fort he same power setting and pitch attitude , the aircraft will begin to accelerate quicker for each notch of flap retraction . Climb rate is trickier as it is dependent on you power setting , airspeed , and pitch angle ; your inputs will matter . However , generally speaking , the reduction in drag would lead to a greater difference between power available ( or power set ) and power required , so , all things being equal , you would likely see an increase in climb rate .
Looking at the hurricane manuals for a few airports , evacuating flyable aircraft to a safer location tends to be the most common choice . From the <URL> Effective with the issuance of a Storm WARNING and/or Hurricane WARNING : Relocate flyable aircraft to other geographical areas , place under suitable shelter , or secure as appropriate . Also , from the <URL> Upon receipt of a Hurricane Warning , Airside Operations will : Initiate evacuation of all flyable aircraft and post Airfield Operations Senior Agents and Agents in detail to insure compliance and report results .
Honestly ? It 's probably because they heard someone else do it , and thought it sounded cool ( or otherwise just got it stuck in their head ) . You 're 100 % right - saying the runway name is , if slightly longer , certainly a bit more informative . It 's the kind of thing that can help arriving pilots know which runway is in use , keeping later radio clutter ( " Um , uhh , Jeffco Traffic , um , say runway in use ? " ) to a minimum for pilots already on frequency . Even a ' one runway airport ' still has two runways ( 09/27 , for example ) , and it 's nice to know which one you should set up for when winds are light . The preferred terminology is more like " Jeffco Traffic , 3AC , clear 29 " .
$ V_1 $ is takeoff decision speed . It is based upon : Runway length Temperature Reduced thrust takeoff Takeoff weight Takeoff flap setting If $ V_1 $ is higher than $ V_R $ , then ( as far as I am aware ) , $ V_1 $ will be adjusted to be the same as $ V_R $ . You have to make the decision to takeoff by the time you rotate , so it does not make much sense to have $ V_1 $ higher than $ V_R $ . $ V_2 $ is takeoff safety speed . During a one engine inop takeoff we would accelerate to and climb at this airspeed to our acceleration height ( a height we could level off at and be safe from obstacles while we further accelerate ) . We also referenced certain flap transitions on takeoff to $ V_2 $ ( e.g. $ V_2 +15 $ - flaps 0 ) To address the rest of the question , $ V_1 $ and $ V_2 $ are primarily used in large aircraft . In light twins you also need to be aware of $ V _ { MC } $ . $ V _ { MC } $ is the minimum controllable airspeed with an engine inop . In particular you do not want to be slower than this airspeed during climbout in case of engine failure .
Aligning yourself in the middle of a straight taxiway is n't a problem . On the 747 , if you put yourself in the middle of the taxiway as you see it beyond the nose , you 'll be in good shape . If you 're the captain , you can hold yourself a little left of the perceived center , but not much , because you 're looking at from an eye level over 30 feet up as I remember . If the taxiway has those little metal reflectors sticking up on the centerline , you can play games trying to keep one of the nose wheels hitting them . You can just barely feel going across them . Or , since the nose gear is two wheels , you can play with getting the reflectors between the two wheels if you 're really bored . Turns on a taxiway present a bit more of a challenge insofar as keeping the center line because the nose gear is behind you , but one develops a feel for it . A 90 degree turn from a narrow taxiway onto another narrow taxiway is a little challenging , especially if the taxiway you 're on T 's into the one you 're turning onto . All you 'll see out the front window as you start the turn is grass . Also , on narrow taxiways , you ca n't see the taxiway out the side window from your normal sitting position . If you need to do a 180 on a runway , you need to remember that when you first get yourself on , say , the right side of the runway , the nose gear is n't there yet , and the wing and body gear have even further to go . You have to run yourself along the side of the runway a sufficient distance so that the airplane is aligned with the edge of the runway before you start your turn . Personally , I found taxiing a 747 one of the more fun things in life .
Answer is yes , good eye . From the A380 flight crew manual : <URL> You can <URL> .
Airplane performance really is n't gauged that way , partly because quick acceleration ' drag race ' data is not a pertinent aspect of their flight envelope . That being said , there are a few examples , one being from the TV show Top Gear where a Bugatti Veyron races a Eurofighter Typhoon - and gets smoked by the jet . I do n't have data on jet fighters as far as linear acceleration ; a quick calculation could reveal some basic data . Take the case of an F-22 . Assuming a 55,000 lbf takeoff weight , lineup , 70,000 lbf thrust at full power , then brakes off and rolling , we expect to see an acceleration around : $ $ ( 70/55 ) * 32.2 ft/s ^ 2 = 41 ft/s ^ 2 $ $ This also assumes no friction from the wheels or air resistance during the takeoff roll . By basic kinematics , the jet would reach 60mph or 88ft/sec in 88/41 = 2.15 seconds . So could an F-22 or another high performance jet fighter beat an Model S in a drag race ? Well it 's theoretically possible and and as the above example shows , it has happened and it did n't end well for the auto . As for airliners , the car is going to smoke them until the car reaches Vr for the jet or thereabouts . And there is no way in hell a Model S is going to do 0-1000 mph .
An RTO can happen for any reason , mechanical , FOD , ATC error , etc. . The boss ( airline operations ) will want to know what happened . Safety Is everyone safe ? Is anyone in immediate danger ? Prepare documents for the NTSB investigation . Time How much time will be lost ( e.g. to cool the brakes ) ; this can affect the schedule of this particular plane days ahead . Especially if maintenance is required . Notify the destination airport of the delay , and also publish the delay for the next flight from said destination airport . Maintenance Make sure the airline 's maintenance stationed at the airport can deal with the issue . If not , get on the phone with airlines who can help . Find a replacement plane and send it over there . Get the all-clear from an airline engineer that the hot brakes wo n't affect another attempt . It depends on how hot they are . If a delay is expected , start the clock , airlines can keep passengers on a stationary plane for so long , I guess it 's two hours . Been there , it 's awful . If it will take more , find them a gate , if no gate is available , get the stairs and a bus . Whose fault was it ? Get a grip on the PR before things get out of hand , i.e. tweet . If anyone is suspected of not doing their job properly , start an investigation . If the ATC is at fault , send them the bill . If it is another airline 's fault , call the insurance company . Fuel Not really an issue for an aborted take-off after few seconds of take-off thrust , but nonetheless run the numbers again . Both in the cockpit and in the ops center .
The short answer is that at negative 2 G , the airframe limit for the A7-E , it took little effort to keep your feet on the rudder pedals . In controlled flight there are aircraft limitations on both positive and negative G. I flew the A7-E for the US Navy and have some operational experience that might offer some context to the question . I believe the positive G was limited to somewhere between 7-9 G. Ca n't quite remember the exact number , and it did depend on the external store configuration as well . Newer aircraft have higher G loading capabilities , although the human body has its own limit . Fitness and training can extend the pilots envelope to high G . As mentioned negative G in the A7-E was limited to -2 . There was no issue at these sorts of values keeping your feet on the rudder pedals . It is worth mentioning that the rudder is controlled by the AFCS ( Automatic Flight Control System ) system and so there is no real need to keep your feet on the pedals , although I did use them at times . Negative 2 G 's was hard on the body , and a pilot would come back to the ship with bloodshot eyes after undergoing maneuvers that required this sort of thing . I can think of 3 times that a pilot would find themselves in a negative G environment . I am not including standard acrobatic maneuvers , but more tactical situations . One , and this was n't typical , was during training . At a high altitude you unloaded the aircraft to -2 G 's and set a 45 degree dive . As the airspeed increased it entered an area on the IAS instrument that was no longer valid , and this was close to Mach . The goal was to observe the characteristics of the aircraft when it went supersonic . There was a gentle pitch down as you broke the sound barrier . I did this maneuver once , although I commonly practiced 45 degree dive bombing deliveries . The second , and quite common , situation was a maneuver called a bug out . A bug out was used by a flight to engage other aircraft in air-to-air combat . It was at once a defensive and offensive maneuver . The lead called " Bug out . Bug out , " and the flight went to -2 G 's , unloading the aircraft , and giving up altitude for airspeed . As your adversary turned towards your 6-o'clock the flight would " Pitch back , " and pulling positive G 's , gaining altitude . Trading airspeed for altitude got the aircraft into slower flight where its turn rate could be maximized . The bug out placed the aircraft immediately in free fall with military thrust applied . Rolling inverted and applying positive G 's is like being in a turn in the sense that the positive G bleeds energy . The third situation was a defensive maneuver . At low airspeed and with someone directly on your 6 o'clock the pilot might try to " jink . " Jinking was a last ditch maneuver where the pilot randomly pulled maximum G , and then went full negative G. I used this against an F-14 in a fight , and afterwards the pilot came and told me he could n't get a firing solution . As for uncontrolled flight there is the flat spin which can exert substantial negative G on the pilot . If I remember correctly a flat spin had never been positively observed in an A7-E . It was postulated , however , that given asymmetric wing loading it might be possible . On the other hand the F-14 could enter a flat spin . Talking with pilots who had knowledge about this sort of flight I was told that the negative G could be large enough where it would not be possible to get your hands on the ejection handle , either low or high . Not sure about the feet :) An interesting side note . At times a pilot will find themselves in a high g turn , grunting against the inflated g-suit , and fighting the encroaching tunnel vision . When I found myself here I would pull on the stick a bit more and watch my peripheral vision go dark ( tunnel vision ) . A bit more g and the tunnel got even narrower , until it was like I was looking through a hole . Then I would ease the stick and watch the hole get bigger . Pull back and smaller . Kind of interesting .
If a " terrorist takeover " like this were to happen in the real world ... ... and the tower still had communication capability : The tower controllers would advise pilots of the situation , and likely instruct them to return to the Approach frequency to coordinate their next steps ( probably a landing at an alternate airport ) . Presumably the tower would still have telephone communication as well , and be able to let Approach know to expect the planes to come back because of the emergency , otherwise the pilots would certainly inform the approach controllers of what 's going on when they switch back to that frequency . ... and the tower has no communication capability : With no response from the tower the usual thing for pilots to do is return to the Approach frequency to find out what 's going on . The pilots could elect to attempt a landing anyway , treating the airport as an untowered field ( this somewhat famously happened at KDCA , <URL> ) , or proceed to an alternate airport . If the weather required an instrument approach and the ILS radio signals are not transmitting this would be something the pilots could detect pretty easily ( similarly if they were turned off while flying the approach there would be indications in the cockpit that the signal was lost and the pilot would execute the missed-approach procedure ) , and they would proceed to an alternate airport , again coordinating with the approach controllers . ... in any case : No matter what the situation the aircraft would divert to their alternate airports long before they were in danger of running out of fuel . They would notify ATC of the situation and proceed to an alternate airport . ( If not cleared by ATC to proceed to an alternate at some point any sane pilot will declare an emergency for low fuel and proceed on their emergency authority to make a safe landing somewhere . ) So basically there 's some " artistic liberties " taken in Die Hard 2 in the interest of making it a movie you 'd want to sit through . A movie where a bunch of terrorists take over an airport and a bunch of flights divert to alternate airports ( mildly inconveniencing the passengers ) while the National Guard surrounds the airport and deals with the terrorists would n't sell nearly as many tickets !
A good way to answer questions like this is to look at the <URL> As newmanth answered , these are gate numbers . <URL> Using Google Maps , you can also see these numbers painted on the taxiway as a guide to taxiing pilots If you want to understand airport air-side signage , one document I found useful is <URL> . It is a UK CAA document but I expect most of it applies in other parts of the world . The CAA refer to stand numbers , as far as I know these are the same as gate numbers . They indicate parking positions for aircraft at airport terminals , these are places that allow for the loading and unloading of passengers . Airliners arriving at airports will know what gate they have to taxi to , and ATC will provide them with taxiway routes . Airports provide signs so that pilots basically know where to find their allocated gate .
When you have the thrust levers of , say , a 747 all the way back to idle , the airplane still has enough power to move . In fact , you will have to use the brakes to keep it from taxiing too fast . If you did n't use the brakes , it would finally accelerate to somewhere around 45 knots or so , far too fast for taxiing , but much too slow to take off . At the idle power setting , relatively little noise is produced by the engines . To take off , if the 747 were at max gross , you would have to accelerate to around 180 knots . That would require a power setting approaching the maximum , depending on the length of the runway . The noise produced by the engines is relative to the amount of power they 're producing . Hence , taxiing at idle produces little noise relatively speaking , on the runway taking off a whole lot of noise .
Okay , so , going with the idea that you have a compass ( and also with the idea that this can be a general question , not necessarily about flight MH370 ) . If you 're heading from Tokyo , Japan to Seattle , Washington , USA ( direct ) , then you could be reasonably certain the craft should be somewhere between headings 45 and 135 . So if you notice the craft is on a heading of 270 ( ie. , clearly you 're going in the opposite direction ) and this direction has been sustained for say , an hour , I 'd think it would be okay to at least ask the cabin crew what 's going on . As with any time you are raising a concern with the cabin crew , you should be polite . As has been stated , they are used to passengers being a bit nervous and , as a result , they can easily interpret belligerence as a sign of irrational fear . And , as you might guess , it 's easy to ignore someone if you feel they are being irrational . So , if you want be taken seriously , be polite . You 're far more likely to get an actual answer , or raise a valid concern even . So , if you just ask , " why are we headed west instead of east " they may have a very simple answer like , " well , the pilot mentioned we might have to take an odd route to avoid some weather " or " this is the flight to Bombay India , how did you get on it ? " Or , they may have no idea and be concerned themselves , so they go and ask their superior . Thus , goal achieved , you 've alerted the flight crew :) . Either way , so long as you 're polite and do n't become insistent ( or belligerent ) that you are correct , I ca n't see any harm in just asking . And sometimes asking is what leads to a problem being solved so ... I 'd say go for it .
I 'm not in the military , so you could say I 'm talking out my rear end here , but based on my experience as a pilot : yes , military pilots use the autopilot all the time . Here 's my reasoning , in order of most to least convincing evidence : Punching the autopilot off takes about a fifth of a second . The button is right there on the yoke , for crying out loud . The time it takes to turn it off is not a good reason not to have it on . The autopilot is a labor-saving device . When you 're in an aircraft ( and particularly when you 're solo in one ) there are times when you 'd rather be paying attention to your chart or setting up the FMS or stretching or eating a candy bar instead of actually flying the plane . Also , when Air Force pilots fly long repositoning flights , the autopilot reduces fatigue between in-flight refuelings ( the Navy uses carriers ) . Times when you might have to leave the designated path for a mission happen a lot less than you think . Again , not in the military , I 'm just basing this on the realities of fuel and the number of military aircraft out there . Maybe if you 're flying close air support for teams on the ground or something , but remember that the military is first and foremost a logistics organization - it 's a machine for moving people and things from one place to another . Most of the time , military aircraft are n't on a hair-trigger moment 's notice ready-to-engage posture , they 're going from one airfield to another for training or maintenance or something . In most aircraft , you can override the autopilot if you need to anyway . Again , never flown a military fighter aircraft , but based on what I know about flying in general , even if you 're chilling in your F-22 ( with the autopilot on ) if you grab the stick and yank , the airplane will move . ( I would be interested to know whether this is true of Airbus aircraft . )
Both ! Some airlines operate simulator facilities . For example , United has a training <URL> with a number of simulators . In turn , they <URL> to others who will pay to use the facilities ( <URL> ) . They can also provide trainers , cabin crew training , ground school training , and other such services . Many airlines have similar programs . They 've even <URL> to customers willing to bid frequent flyer miles for the privilege . When an airline does n't own and operate the necessary equipment itself ( even an airline that runs its own simulators may not have a suitable quantity for every aircraft in its fleet ) , it can contract for such services from someone else . That someone else might be another airline , a company that provides simulators ( <URL> ) and may offer other training services like instructors , or a provider affiliated with the manufacturer ( <URL> ) .
The main problem with VRT is the airflow through the rotor which is disturbed because it is ingesting its own downwash . <URL> The large area of air accelerated downwards keeps being sucked back in to the rotor because the helicopter sinks back into it . In this state the rotor provides very little thrust - it acts as a sort of divide-by-zero state , as the transition between normal flight and windmilling when the air streams upwards . The flow field of the Harrier is different : Thrust is produced inside the engine , which is shielded from the effects of aircraft vertical velocity : air is sucked in through the inlet next to the cockpit . The air stream velocities are higher . Air is accelerated downward in a much smaller area at much higher velocities . There is no fuselage which partially decelerates the airstream , like in a helicopter : the downward flow field is much cleaner . The defining problem of VRS is the lack of thrust from the rotor at downward velocities , this would not occur with the shrouded jet engine of the Harrier .
Of course gear doors create drag when open . The question is " how much ? " As you suspect , door drag is not the critical factor here . As usual the answer to your question is aircraft-specific , and your question is pointing to a generalized " old wive 's tale " which is only true sometimes . OK , what is the story behind the story ? <URL> . Watch the main gear as it enters/exits the storage wells in the fuselage . The axles of the wheels are close to parallel to the direction of flight , which means the wheels are being dragged broadside in the slipstream . A very high drag scenario which will affect aircraft performance . The POH recommendation is ( from memory , now ) to climb over critical obstacles on takeoff with the gear down , and raise the gear only when the obstacle is cleared . The attached video shows why . This advice does not pertain to all planes . Know your plane , read the POH . Oh ... and ask questions here !
If all else is equal , an increase in temperature will result in a decrease in density of air molecules . To fly , a wing leverages these molecules , so the aircraft will need to fly faster to generate the same lift . Therefore the takeoff and landing distances are increased . Engine performance is also impacted . Most engines outside of NASA breathe air and so perform better when that air is dense . Jet engines also have a maximum exhaust gas temperature they can withstand , and in very hot temperatures the amount of thrust they produce needs to be lowered so as to not exceed that value . This is the basic premise of how Airbus ' assumed temperature ' works , where the pilots tell the engine that the temperature is hotter than it actually is , so the FADEC automatically caps the thrust .
end question
start question
Can hypersonic aircraft be agile without the G forces harming the pilot ?
Agility means that you can change the speed vector rapidly . The way this is done in aircraft is to <URL> into the desired direction and then to increase lift as much as possible . The lift force over time results in a kinetic energy change which accelerates the aircraft in the new direction and decelerates the old speed away . Flying faster means that the kinetic energy goes up with the square of the speed increase . What could turn 90 ° within 4 seconds at Mach 0.7 will take 200 seconds at Mach 5 when the same acceleration is applied . This makes clear that agility does not survive the speed increase . What if the force is increased ? To regain the same 22.5 ° / s turn rate would require a lift multiple of 50 ! This means hundreds of gs for a structure which is weakened by friction heating and a massive increase in wave drag . Since wave drag increases with the square of the speed increase , any hypersonic vehicle attempting to pull many gs will not stay hypersonic beyond the next few seconds ! Assuming an L/D of 10 , the deceleration would be in the order of 250 g if the wing tolerates 50 g of lift load and things are linearily scaled up . But that would be an L/D of 0.2 - in other words , the wing will be close to 90 ° angle of attack and the craft will break apart . Even the more reasonable 6 g of subsonic manoeuvring will mean a 36-fold increase im wave drag at Mach 5 , bringing L/D down to less than 2 . Conclusion : There is simply no way for hypersonic vehicles to be agile . The pilot is the least of your problems .
Even when faasafety.gov is working without issue , the course can be difficult to find with the site 's search feature . The Part 107 Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems ( small UAS ) course is presently available from this direct link : <URL> . Note that you will have to be logged in to do the course . If you follow that link and are not logged in to <URL> , log in and then go to that link again . Note also that faasafety.gov currently seems to be experienceing occasional technical issues , either due to maintenance or traffic volume . The link may not work reliably at present .
The <URL> ( the parent airplane to the 330 ) : The Extra 300 is stressed for ± 10 G with one person on board and ± 8 G with two So it is certainly possible from an airplane perspective that you pulled that many Gs - in an aerobatic airplane , it 's not unheard of to pull 1G less than the aircraft limit ( usually there is a large margin of safety built into that number before a catastrophic structural failure ) . Now did you pull 7Gs ? As others have noted , 7Gs for 10-20 seconds seems very unlikely . But it is not out of the question your peak instantaneous G load was 7 . From a human factor standpoint , G-suits typically do n't increase the max G-load , but rather <URL> and the time period it can be held for . G-suits do very little to actually decrease blood flow ( pooling in the legs ) - they primarily serve as a reminder to the pilot to perform an AGSM . A g-suit does not so much increase the g-threshold , but makes it possible to sustain high g longer without excessive physical fatigue . The resting g-tolerance of a typical person is anywhere from 3-5 g depending on the person . A g-suit will typically add 1 g of tolerance to that limit . Now there are a vast array of factors affecting this resting G-tolerance . I flew a military high-performance trainer , and my resting G-tolerance was around 3 , or the lower end of the spectrum . One of the other pilots I knew had a resting G-tolerance of about 7.5 . The primary difference is blood pressure . I am 5 ' 10 " and only 145 pounds , with a resting blood pressure of about 90/60-100 / 70 . He was 6 ' 0 " and about 215 pounds , with a much higher blood pressure . Tall , skinny , nonsmoking runners have actually the worst resting G-tolerance while short , stocky , sedentary or heavily muscled smokers have much higher tolerance . Other factors , such as how hydrated and rested you are and how much stress you are feeling , can vary vastly your daily G-tolerance . All of those numbers I just listed do not take into account the pilot performing an AGSM ( Anti-G Straining Maneuver ) . This can add several Gs to the pilot 's tolerance , and is one of the biggest things taught in physiological training for high-G maneuvers . So TL ; DR : could you have pulled 7Gs without prior exposure ? It is possible , depending on varying personal factors and body type , but it is not likely . However , with a little training , 7Gs is perfectly attainable .
The guns of modern fighter jets are fixed to the airframe -- they ca n't be moved in any direction ; the pilot has to maneuver the aircraft to bring the guns to bear . The image shows the mounting of General Electric M61A1 Vulcan cannon in an F-16 . <URL> Gun installation in F-16 ; image from <URL> The pilot aims the guns using an optical representation in the Heads-Up Display ( HUD ) . Some of the aircraft use the <URL> where : ... a prediction angle is continually computed and displayed on the Heads Up Display ( HUD ) as a reticle offset from a fixed reference on the gunsight . ... ( which ) accounts for ballistic curvature , own motion , and predicted target motion . Basically , it shows where the shells will pass through at a certain distance . Some aircraft use <URL> . It basically shows a pair of lines which the cannon shells will follow - the lines moves as the aircraft maneuvers , showing the effect of the maneuver on the flight path ( of the shell ) . The correct ' solution ' exists when the wingtips of the target touches the funnel lines . <URL> EEGS ; image from <URL>
There is a weight sensor which senses if the plane is on the ground . This sensor prevents gear retraction while the plane is still on the ground . Failure of this sensor would prevent gear retraction after takeoff . If you note closely , the landing gears ( even the non-retractable ones ) are not connected using a simple metal pole ; rather , there is <URL> which is compressed by the weight of the aircraft . Besides airborne / ground detection , the struts absorb the vertical energy during touchdown . <URL> I recall some decades ago engineers experimented obtaining the plane 's gross weight by installing weight scales to each landing gear ( as opposed to just an air/ground detection ) . The readings were found to be inaccurate and they soon abandoned the idea . Landing gear stories can not be complete without mentioning this incident in 1990 : A training captain of a <URL> was betting with his students that the weight-on-gear mechanism would prevent gear retraction while on the ground . On the accident airplane type , the mechanism would lock the gear handle , but the lock can be overridden if the pilot manually pull out and move the handle . The instructor confidently pulled out the handle and to his surprise , the hydraulics started to move and the gears were retracted while the plane was still on the ground . <URL> ( <URL> ) The aircraft was written off . This incompetent instructor pilot was killed 11 years later in <URL> .
No . It varies from state to state . <URL> , for example , requires tax payment but no aircraft or pilot registration . <URL> does n't require any registration and did n't mention any taxes . In <URL> , registration is required but taxes can be waived if you register your aircraft under your corporate , instead of your own name . <URL> requires registration and so does <URL> . I could not find a single resource which lists all states and their aircraft and pilot registration requirements . FAA does not have this information , probably because FAA does not care about state regulations . We can create a Wiki on this topic here .
At least I got my own license ( Czech Republic CAA ) , and I have " English VFR only " in my " Radiotelephone privileges " section . It is not English proficiency mark ( just because I have " ICAO English level 4 valid till ... " in " Remarks " section ) . As I understand , some countries still require separate RT license , but my question was about privileges stated in PPL .
In a word , yes . The APU ( auxiliary power unit ) will supply air pressure and power the electrical systems needed to start the aircraft . No ground support is required . <URL> It 's routinely done all the time ! Next time you 're at the airport , watch a 7xx or A3xx . Ignoring stairs , fuel , food , toilet drains etc there is sometimes no external air or power supply attached . The APU will be running during boarding to power the aircraft and condition the cabin . It is then used to start engines during the pushback . When in the cabin , you will notice the packs being switched off ( the packs supply cabin air ) as the air is diverted to the engine starters . The only times I 've seen this not done is when an external air conditioning cart is attached as the APU can not cool the aircraft .
Why Mach 10 ? Would Mach 3 or 4 not be enough ? See <URL> and <URL> for the complications which arise at higher speeds . The linked article is full of misrepresentations - of course will the Busemann biplane create lift at sub-supersonic speed ( what is that , anyway ? I read it as subsonic speed ) . Give it a proper subsonic airfoil and it will do so just like any other biplane , and even with the trapezoidal airfoil it will do so , albeit with more drag . It will also create lift and drag if operated at a proper angle of attack below its design speed ( maybe that is meant by sub-supersonic speed , but the author never clarifies that ) . <URL> Busemann biplane as shown in the linked article ( <URL> ) Did you note that the shock lines in the graph only occur between the two wings ? That means that on the outer surfaces you will only see ambient pressure . The pressures internally cancel each other , and the result is that the Busemann biplane will not create any lift at its supersonic design speed in order to do its magic . As soon as it starts to create lift , it needs to create shock waves on the outside which will invariably be audible . That the researchers at Tohoku claim them to be 85 % weaker is easy if they omit to mention to what they compare it . Now look at the bulky passenger compartment on the top wing . This is clearly not optimised for supersonic travel ( please compare it to the fuselages of the Concorde or the Tu-144 to get an idea what works ) . No , this article is just utter nonsense .
The linear theory makes certain assumptions in its formulation : The flow is irrotational and isentropic . The perturbations are small ; i.e. the bodies are small at small angles of attack . However , hypersonic flow <URL> : For a body in hypersonic flow ( blunt body with detached bow shock ) , an entropy gradient is developed that varies along the distance of the body . It results in an entropy layer that persists all along the body . In a hypersonic flow , the viscous boundary layer interacts with the shock and entropy layer and the kinetic energy of the flow is dissipated by the effect of friction within the boundary layer . Due to these viscous effects , the flow is no longer irrotational . Note that the linear theory is not applicable if the flow is considered hypersonic . M > 5 is usually taken as hypersonic . Linear theory is not applicable in transonic regime either .
Yes...kind-of . There was <URL> which would allow you to program Garmin GPS systems ( GNS 430/530 ) , which was FAA-approved by STC for a good number of light General Aviation aircraft . While it was not capable of flying the plane by voice instruction it could be used to program a route into the GPS , which a coupled autopilot would then be able to fly . The VoiceFlight product has been discontinued as competition from the newer GTN 650/750 ( which require less knob-twiddling to program a route ) and other technologies like <URL> ate into the company 's business to the point where it was no longer viable to remain in business , but the core idea of voice technology in the cockpit has been proven possible ( and according folks who tried it , even practical ) . It may make another appearance some day .
Can you explain how it works and how to use it and what is the advantage compared with regular steep turns ? He needs to turn and start to descent . Note , that the two moments he 's overbanking he 's flying over ridges and wants to descent to the valley behind . Now when you want to lower the nose in a turn you need to bank more so you still have the desired lateral lift , but less vertical . But he 's so fast that he needs negative vertical lift component , and since the wings are producing positive lift to make the turn , he needs to bank more than 90 ° to get it . I have CPL but I was never thought such maneuvering . Can it be used in SEP aircraft or glider with just a couple of G ? It is a positive G manoeuvre and you can do the same with , say , 2G , so technically yes . However : You have no use for it . He 's flying 420 -- 480 knots . At 420 knots , a 1G ( meaning 1G lateral , so 1.41 G total at 45 ° bank ) turn will have rate 2.6 ° / s and radius 4759 m . But in a SEP you might be flying , say , 120 knots and then 1G turn will have rate 9.1 ° / s and radius 388 m. That , of course , applies to vertical turns as well . So where he needs to push -1 G , and thus overbank , you would do with reducing to , say , 0.5 G , and thus still normal side up . You would probably loose spatial awareness rather quickly if you are not trained in aerobatics . The fighter pilots train a lot to be able to handle the plane at these high Gs and unusual attitudes . Without training , it will get confusing pretty quickly . Your attitude indicator will likely tumble . The fighters have attitude indicators carefully designed not to , but your average mechanical one in something like C172 almost surely will . That is not a problem in itself -- aerobatic pilots just cage it and fly purely on external references -- but you need to be aware of it . The fighter has a G-meter , but in a typical SEP plane you do n't . But if you fly below $ V_A $ , the wing will stall before exceeding the structural limit , so you can do without . During aerobatics , such , or similar manoeuvres may be performed . For example in Red Bull Air Race turns are usually executed at 90 ° bank ( to use all the lift for the change of direction ) . The plane climbs a bit to store some speed in height , since turns are tighter at slower speed , then makes the hard turn , during which it has 0G vertical and the vertical speed decays and it changes from climb to descent and then it levels from the descent in the gate height and with all its speed back . At the end of the movie looks like 5G is used for slowing airplane for landing . 5G is pulled and jet instantly slows from 300 to 260 . The induced drag is proportional to coefficient of lift . So when the wings are requested to generate a lot of lift , they also generate a lot of drag . Especially since this might have been enough to pull the delta wings of the Typhoon to the vortex lift regime , where it generates even more drag . I believe part of the reason to fly such sharp turn here is to fly the pattern at modest size despite the high speed and the deceleration is just a nice side-effect . The speed brake would be enough to slow down , and still needs to be used as 260 knots is still about twice the landing speed .
Yes . <URL> covers this ( my emphasis ) : ( b ) Required pilot certificate for operating a foreign-registered aircraft within the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of foreign registry within the United States , unless -- ( 1 ) That person 's pilot certificate or document issued under § 61.29 ( e ) is in that person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate ; and ( 2 ) Has been issued in accordance with this part , or has been issued or validated by the country in which the aircraft is registered . So a US license ( i.e. one issued under part 61 ) is allowed as an alternative to a foreign license for operating the foreign aircraft . The other country could have rules on this too , but I have no idea if they would be enforceable ( obviously , one country 's laws are usually not valid in another one ) .
Airbus fly-by-wire aircraft have what is called envelope protection which is to prevent pilot inputs from exceeding structural limits as well as keep them from getting the aircraft into an upset flight regime ( stall , overbank , etc. ) . The philosophy behind it is that , if the pilots need to perform an extreme maneuver they can be as aggressive with the controls as they want , confident that they wo n't break the plane . Boeing generally disagrees with this approach saying that , in an emergency , the pilot needs to have all possible force at his disposal , even if it breaks the plane . See the <URL> Federico linked to in comments for more on this . Of course , the Airbus system can only provide these protections when systems are all functioning properly . If part of the system is not working the protections are removed . Examples : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , As far as AA587 , the A-300 is not a fly-by-wire aircraft and does n't have envelope protections . It 's debatable , though , if envelope protection would have helped in that situation . None of the rudder inputs by itself was outside of the structural limitations of the aircraft so the computer would probably not have prevented them . The failure was due to the inputs being made in quick succession which quickly fatigued the composite material of the rudder . The computer can be programmed to know , for instance , how much g-force the structure can take . But it would be difficult to determine what complex combinations of inputs might exceed the strength of the design .
Firstly : Flightdeck doors are to the best of my knowledge not hermetically sealed . Secondly : Doors will normally have one of several solutions employed to safely handle explosive decompression : Some doors have panels that pop out to equalise the pressure , especially inwards . Some doors unlock automatically in one or both directions . Needless to say , you need one solution in either direction . Whatever pressure difference there is it will most probably very quickly be equalised and there should not be any difficulty in opening the door if need be .
There are four different types of ELTs : Automatic fixed ELT ( ELT ( AF ) ) . An automatically activated ELT which is permanently attached to an aircraft . Automatic portable ELT ( ELT ( AP ) ) . An automatically activated ELT which is rigidly attached to an aircraft but readily removable from the aircraft . Automatic deployable ELT ( ELT ( AD ) ) . An ELT which is rigidly attached to an aircraft and which is automatically deployed and activated by impact , and , in some cases , also by hydrostatic sensors . Manual deployment capability is also provided . Survival ELT ( ELT ( S ) ) . An ELT which is removable from an aircraft , stowed so as to facilitate its ready use in an emergency , and manually activated by survivors . All the aircraft I fly in ( all two of 'em ) have the third type . If the aircraft is submerged or experiences a high G-force , the ELT will be triggered . There 's also a button on the panel to activate it manually . I 'm not sure what G-forces are required to set off the ELT , but they must be fairly significant -- I 've slammed my plane down pretty hard while misjudging my landings , and never had it go off . According to <URL> : To meet the " g " force requirements of TSO-C91 , automatic fixed-type inertially activated ELT 's ( except overwater type ) must activate at any inertial force , parallel to the longitudinal axis of the aircraft when installed in accordance with the manufacturer 's instructions , of 5 ( +2 , -0 ) g and greater for a time duration of 11 ( +5 , -0 ) milliseconds or longer . So , there you have it . You need 5 -- 7 Gs for 11 -- 16 milliseconds -- but only in the direction the plane is pointing . Misjudging your landing flare and stalling the plane 20 feet off the runway wo n't set it off , as that 's not on the axis they 're measuring .
Can ? Of course they can . Does it make sense ? No , it does not . A VTOL needs thrust at least equal to its weight . That is much more than a fixed-wing aircraft ( HTOL ) needs . Airliners have lift-to-drag ratio around 18 -- 20 . That is in clean configuration ; in landing configuration it might be about half ( ~ 10 ) and we need twice as much thrust in case an engine fails , so around 1/4 weight . So a VTOL would need 4 times as much thrust as a HTOL . Likely more , because the craft would still have to be capable of reasonably controlled landing in case of engine failure . And while rotorcraft can do that by autorotation and pilot of Harrier or F-35B can simply eject , jet-powered civilian VTOL would only have the remaining engines for it . Now fortunately thrust and power are only indirectly related . To create thrust , force must be applied to the air . This force accelerates air , giving it some momentum and some kinetic energy . Thrust is ( change of ) momentum per time and momentum is mass time velocity while power is ( change of ) energy per time and energy is 1/2 mass times speed squared . So we can produce a lot of thrust with little power by accelerating a lot of air by a little . Which means large propeller : a rotor . That 's how helicopters get enough lift/thrust with reasonably small engine . Unfortunately rotors are not very practical for flying fast . One would also be rather difficult to tilt . That 's why V-22 Osprey and Augusta-Westland AW603 use a compromise that is somewhere between ; large enough to still have good efficiency in hover and small enough to be possible to tilt . What would definitely not be efficient for hover is a jet though . Jets are small and ca n't affect that much air ; what they can is accelerate it a lot . That is necessary for flying fast , but it is terribly inefficient when flying slowly . Military jets do n't care . They want so powerful engine to fly very fast anyway and they do n't care for efficiency much as decisive edge in combat is worth a lot of money . But for civilian transport the small advantage of being able to land closer to destination would not outweigh the disadvantage of being several times more expensive to operate . Flying the long distance with HTOL to a nearby airport and , if the destination is not reachable by car , hiring a helicopter just for the final part of the trip ends up being a lot cheaper .
Fuel is stored in fuel tanks , which typically have two requirements : They must be sealed so as to contain the fuel in all probable flight attitudes . ( Ideally they will keep it contained in a few improbable ones too . ) They must have appropriate plumbing to get the fuel to the engines . ( There are some exceptions to this , but <URL> . ) Anti-Shock bodies are typically not fuel tanks - they meet neither requirement as they are not watertight ( fuel will just pour out of them ) , and there 's no plumbing to get the fuel out of , or for that matter into them . As " Exhibit A " , take a look at the anti-shock bodies around the 787 flap tracks &amp; actuators - Note that the anti-shock body is hollow , but unsealed . Any fuel ( or water ) in here would simply pour out the trailing edge when the flaps are extended . <URL>
The ILS , or precisely the components localizer and glidepath antennas can be shut off , as they are electronic devices that emit radio signals . They can be turned off and on by ATC where required , e.g. having the same ILS frequency for two opposite runways and you only want one to be active at the same time or they can be shut down by maintenance directly at the emitters . ILS are usually not powered by UPS , so they will not be available during power outages . If equipment is being shut down for maintenance or other reasons , you will see this mentioned in the <URL> , such as here from Cologne/Bonn Airport , where the glidepath portion of the ILS runway 24 is out of service : ( Source : <URL> )
In order to engage the usual arresting gear ( cables ) on an aircraft carrier , it helps to have a <URL> . There are other forms of <URL> that do not require a tail hook . Presumably the main limitations on an aircraft using them are the size , weight , and landing speed of the aircraft . These devices do not seem to be designed for as frequent use as the arresting cables of a carrier . Followup : As I found out on looking into this further , many ( most ? all ? ) present-day land-based fighter jets , not just Navy or Marines jets , have tail hooks as well . However , at least according to <URL> , tail hooks of the types of aircraft used by the US Air Force ( and some other air forces ) are not designed to work with aircraft carrier arresting cables but only with land-based systems ( which suspend the cables higher than the aircraft carrier systems do ) . As mentioned in a comment ( and in the Wikipedia article on " Arresting gear " linked above ) , barrier nets can serve as arresting gear . Various publications ( for example the <URL> , pp. 10 -- 11 , accessed 22-Jan-2015 ) list numerous kinds of gear , including cables designed to engage tail hooks , woven straps designed to be torn by tail hooks ( one-time use only ! ) , nets designed to engage struts , nets designed to engage wings , nets combined with cables , and engineered material arresting systems ( EMAS ) that absorb energy as they are crushed under the wheels of the aircraft . I have not yet found any citations of EMAS being used by military aircraft , but its main limitation of seems to be landing speed rather than aircraft weight or size , as <URL> dated December 12 , 2014 credits these systems with stopping nine aircraft that overran runways in separate incidents , including a Boeing 747 , an MD-11 , and an Airbus A320 .
end question
start question
What protection did the Concorde have against an uncontrolled decompression ?
This is the main reason why Concorde had such small windows . It was calculated to reduce the rate of decompression to a survivable level in case one window fails . ( The prototype , by the way , had much larger windows ) . Other than that , I do n't know of any other ' special ' decompression mitigation measures that would be unique to Concorde . There were , of course , things that had to be done in a very special manner on Concorde in case of decompression . For example , rapid emergency descent : there was a special program that transfered fuel forward during emergency descent . It could be activated by a single button , and the flight engineer had to keep the program up to date for the current flight conditions . ( Generally , keeping the CG/fuel balance was pretty much a full time job for the Concorde flight engineer ) . But this would hardly help in case of ' uncontrolled ' ( explosive ) decompression .
The Suntan project needed all fuselage space to hold three tanks for liquid hydrogen , so the engines had to be placed somewhere else . Placing them near the fuselage would put them in the range of the fuselage 's shock waves . Putting them out on the wing would help with wing bending relief and ensure a clean intake flow . Once they are so far out , you can as well put them on the wingtips , so that they do not cause a pitch-up moment . On the SR-71 , the engines were also placed outside the fuselage and into the wing 's plane , much for the same reasons . Keeping the intake flow uniform is paramount for the undisturbed operation of supersonic intakes , and I assume that Kelly Johnson wanted to make sure that the engines would not suffer an unstart when flying reconnaissance missions over hostile territory . With the little experience in supersonic flight in 1955 it was prudent to avoid built-in pitching moments - after all , the supersonic L/D likely was in the single digits , so an out-of-plane engine placement would had produced more moment than on subsonic aircraft . Hydrogen was selected to achieve the highest possible flight altitude , so the aircraft would be safe from surface-to-air missiles for as long as possible . I initially thought that the wingtip location would enable to cool the hot wing structure by heating up the hydrogen on its way to the engine , but heating was planned to be done with bleed air in a special heat exchanger . Quoting <URL> : The CL-400 design divided the hydrogen tankage into three sections ; the forward tank had a capacity of 67 000 liters ; aft , 54 000 ; and center ( sump ) , 15 000 . The two main tanks were kept at 2.3 atmospheres pressure and the sump tank slightly lower for fuel transfer . In the sump was a booster pump , built by Pesco Products , that supplied liquid hydrogen to the engines at a pressure of 4.4 atmospheres . The engines were mounted at the wing tips , which meant that the liquid hydrogen had to pass through a hot wing with surface temperatures up to 436 K . The design provided a vacuum-jacketed , insulated line for this purpose . Regarding the perceived danger of using hydrogen , <URL> says : Tests were devised in which tanks containing liquid hydrogen under pressure were ruptured . In many cases , the hydrogen quickly escaped without ignition . The experimenters then provided a rocket squib ( a small powder charge ) to ignite the escaping , hydrogen . The resulting fireball quickly dissipated because of the rapid flame speed of hydrogen and its low density . Containers of hydrogen and gasoline were placed side by side and ruptured . When the hydrogen can was ruptured and ignited , the flame quickly dissipated - , but when the same thing was done with gasoline , the gasoline and flame stayed near the container and did much more damage . The gasoline fire was an order of magnitude more severe than the hydrogen fire . The experimenters tried to induce hydrogen to explode , with limited success . In 61 attempts , only two explosions occurred and in both , they had to mix oxygen with the hydrogen . Their largest explosion was produced by mixing a half liter of liquid oxygen with a similar volume of liquid hydrogen . Johnson and Rich were convinced that , with proper care , liquid hydrogen could be handled quite safely and was a practical fuel-a conclusion that was amply verified by the space program in the 1960s . At the time , however , Johnson and Rich filmed their fire and explosion experiments to convince doubters . When work on Suntan started , liquid hydrogen was a laboratory curiosity . Preparing the infrastructure needed for operating the CL-400 , the Suntan project led to the building of large-scale liquid hydrogen plants . Their availability paved the way for the cryogenic rockets of the Apollo program ! Interestingly , a similar engine location was selected by the Russian design bureaus <URL> and <URL> supersonic bomber in the mid-50s . It was started after news of the US Weapon System 110 ( which later led to the XB-70 ) reached Russia and was similarly cancelled after two prototypes had been built and only one aircraft had flown . <URL> M-50 during display in 1961 at Tushino airshow ( picture <URL> ) . Note the similarity of the Mig-21 and M-50 planform - both originated from the same work done at <URL> . Placing the outer engines below the wing would had caused ground contact on rotation . Speaking of rotation : The M-50 had two central gears and the bomb bay between them , and the main gear had to be placed so far aft that the M-50 could not be rotated the usual way with the elevator . So the engineers devised what they called the " galloping bicycle " . When the aircraft reached 300 km/h , the forward gear rapidly extended to rotate it to 10 ° . Placing the outer engines B-58-like below the wing would had required an even longer gear .
Airport with an operating control tower = talk to it . From the regulations : § 91.126 ( d ) ( concerns Class G ) and § 91.127 ( c ) ( concerns Class E ) are identical . Communications with control towers . Unless otherwise authorized or required by ATC , no person may operate an aircraft to , from , through , or on an airport having an operational control tower unless two-way radio communications are maintained between that aircraft and the control tower . Communications must be established prior to 4 nautical miles from the airport , up to and including 2,500 feet AGL . However , if the aircraft radio fails in flight , the pilot in command may operate that aircraft and land if weather conditions are at or above basic VFR weather minimums , visual contact with the tower is maintained , and a clearance to land is received . If the aircraft radio fails while in flight under IFR , the pilot must comply with § 91.185 .
According to : <URL> : Altitude ( measured barometrically ) - TUC FL150 ( 15,000 ft ; 4,550 m ) - 30 minutes or more FL180 ( 18,000 ft ; 5,500 m ) - 20 to 30 minutes FL220 ( 22,000 ft ; 6,700 m ) - 5-10 minutes FL250 ( 25,000 ft ; 7,600 m ) - 3 to 6 minutes FL280 ( 28,000 ft ; 8,550 m ) - 2.5 to 3 minutes FL300 ( 30,000 ft ; 9,150 m ) - 1 to 3 minutes FL350 ( 35,000 ft ; 10,650 m ) - 30 secs to 1 minute FL400 ( 40,000 ft ; 12,200 m ) - 15 to 20 seconds FL430 ( 43,000 ft ; 13,100 m ) - 9 to 15 seconds FL500 ( 50,000 ft ; 15,250 m ) - 6 to 9 seconds
MiG-23 For the MiG-23 , it was manual . [ The ] MiG-23 had a completely manual wing sweep control . But there was no gauge to indicate optimum wing position for the surrounding conditions . " You had to manually put the wings into position to safely fly the airplane , " [ ... ] " They had a very nice gauge that showed where the wings were commanded to , where the wings actually were if they were still in motion , and what the Mach limit was associated with that wingsweep position . " -- <URL> p. 176 From <URL> we learn the sweep steps were 16 ° , 45 ° , and 72 ° -- for one of the variants at least -- which makes it easy to find that gauge . Here it is magnified below with the limiting Mach number ( M2 .35 ) and Velocity ( 1400 km/h indicated ; 756 KIAS ) for the current selected max sweep of 72 ° . <URL> ( <URL> ) Su-17 / 20/22 It started as a two-position wing , then it was upgraded1 so that the wing can stop anywhere between 30 ° and 63 ° . This improved the flight range . Below , КРЫЛО means wing . And ОТКЛ means off , or deactivate -- ОТКЛЮЧИТЬ . This leads me to conclude it too was manual despite the advanced avionics the Su-17 family carried . <URL> ( <URL> ) The wing control switch and position indicator are on the left glareshield . 1 Source : <URL> Bonus : <URL> showing the pilot using that switch
For small objects , there is probably be a ' critical aircraft density ' below which a return from orbit is possible . A balsa wood model glider would probably land unscathed after a very long re-entry ... The same may be expected from paper plane . The small mass will mean that little energy would be dissipated , and the large drag and long re-entry would ensure that its dissipation rate ( ' power at reentry ' ) is kept low enough ...
The nacelle is not some solid block . For the flow it looks like a hollow , slightly blocked tube . The flow ahead of the nacelle is indeed slowed down in flight , but only a little , entering the intake face at a flow speed of around Mach 0.4 to 0.5 . This compresses the air ahead of the nacelle when flying in cruise at around Mach 0.8 , so what enters the intake is already slightly compressed . Note that this compression does not involve boundary layers or shocks , so it is very efficient . The effect of the compression is that some of the air flowing towards the nacelle is pressed aside to flow around it . To avoid flow separation , the <URL> . Pre-compression helps , because it raises the pressure in the whole engine and increases its thrust . What might be looked at as drag is in fact increasing the thrust of the engine ! Of course , by further compressing and heating the ingested air the engine accelerates it , so the outflow speed of the core flow is easily double its entry speed . The outflow fills up the cross section of the engine , so the outer flow never has to flow into a void and experience separation ( which is responsible for most of the drag of blunt bodies ) . Instead , it meets a faster jet of air once it has passed the engine fairing and is accelerated during the mixing process . Only if the engine is idling or off will the <URL> .
The C-130 uses pressurized bleed air for leading-edge and window anti-ice . The props are deiced with electric heaters in the prop . <URL> The C-130 is very often used in places that experience icing . For example , the US Air Force flies the C-130 as a cargo/transport aircraft for Antarctic and Greenland operations : <URL> <URL>
For any <URL> , the event must have a probability of 50 % at least ( that is more than playing playing heads or tails ) . Related US <URL> for AIRMET Z : AIRMETs are issued every 6 hours , where there is a 50 % probability that any of the following en-route weather phenomena will cover an area of 3000 square miles or greater . Phenomena for AIRMET Z are : Icing : Areas of moderate airframe icing , other than convectively induced , including the areal extent . Freezing Level information is included after AIRMETs for moderate icing or statements indicating that no significant icing is expected . Freezing level is defined as : The lowest freezing level above the ground or at the SFC as appropriate . Freezing levels are delineated using high altitude VOR locations describing the location of the lowest freezing level above the ground or SFC as appropriate . Freezing levels above the ground are delineated at 4000 feet intervals above mean sea level ( AMSL ) . Multiple freezing levels above the ground are delineated using " BOUNDED BY " followed by high altitude VOR locations . The range of freezing levels across the forecast area is also included . G-AIRMETs , the graphical version , are issued every 3 hours ( but still describe the next 6 hours ) .
Most of the liabilities ( but not all ) fall under the insurance of the aircraft . Your insurance policy is your largest liability . This is important not just for protection of your aircraft , but if your insurance ends up void in an incident , you could have a lawsuit on your hands . Do n't assume that aviation insurance is similar to car insurance , either . Insurance Pilot ( on plan ) - Aviation insurance has 3 catagories : Pilot , Named Individuals , Other ( explained later ) . The owner pays insurance based on their qualifications and those specifically named . If you are going to be borrowing on a regular basis , weigh the cost of adding you to the plan . Pilot ( off plan ) - Insurance specifies whether or not you may borrow the aircraft to others , but also what qualifications that pilot must have . You may have only have 100 hours and are insured , but the insurance company may ask for 500 hours of someone you borrow the aircraft to . Aircraft - Regardless of the pilot , if the aircraft is out of compliance on maintenance or airworthiness , it is not being flown legally and therefore voids the insurance . As the owner ( primary on the insurance ) , this is your responsibility as an owner and the pilot 's responsibility as PIC . Both of you can be hit for this one . Reimbursement - Just because it is non-commercial use , your insurance may still specify what you can be compensated for . This may be only the actual expenses of the flight ( fuel , oil , airport fees ) and may include limits on hourly charges for maintenance . Keep in mind that this does not authorize you to break regulation on commercial use . You can not make a profit . Legal flight - Above all else , the flight must be legal . The flight needs to comply with all FAA regulations . Non-commercial use - I keep coming back to this , but this is very important . The pilot may be a commercial pilot , but this does n't authorize them to use the aircraft for hire . With many insurance plans , you can have a CFI train you since you are the owner , but a CFI can not train someone else and you can not train someone else . This makes and aircraft for hire and requires a 100-hour inspection . Other - Pilots who do not own an aircraft may have their own ( renters ) policy . While this may cover liabilities of those in the aircraft , do n't assume that this also covers your aircraft . A pilot paying $ 200/year wo n't likely have coverage for your shiny new Cirrus . Other As the owner , you have liability in accurate record keeping . If you fudge documents on your aircraft that make it appear FAA compliant to the PIC , then you can be held liable . Notes These are only the items that come to mind . Feel free to add .
It adjusts the FMGC temperature model to account for non-standard temperature . This will have the effect of improving performance predictions by having a more accurate temperature model . The FMGC uses a temperature model based on the International Standard Atmosphere ( ISA ) . The ISA is based on a sea-level temperature of 15 deg C . In the model , temperature decreases with altitude at a rate of 1.98 deg C/1000 feet up to the tropopause . Above the Tropopause , the temperature is a constant -56.5 deg C. Updating the tropopause as well as entering the cruise altitude/temperature will adjust the temperature model closer to actual and thus improve predictions . Not entering either value will result in predictions using the ISA model which will reduce the accuracy of predictions ( except in the off chance the actual weather matches the ISA . )
Actually , the Boeing design for the SST ( Super Sonic Transport ) , the <URL> had a swing wing ( swing wing was the hot thing during that time ) . It is instructive to look at what happened to that design . <URL> Image from up-ship . com The 2707 concept was a larger aircraft , with a 174 ' wingspan for TO/landing and low speed regime ( In comparison , Concorde had a 84 ' wingspan and carried half the passengers ) . While the wings were swept back , the wing area increased from 1828 $ m ^ { 2 } $ to 2743 $ m ^ { 2 } $ . The engines were carried on the stabilizers . During the development Boeing had significant problems associated with the swing wing mechanism . Concerns about stability and payload capability lead the design to be lengthened and added canard to the front to meet rotation requirements , though the new design 2707-200 kept the swing wings . <URL> Image from up-ship . com However , these changes did little to solve the problems . When kept near the centerline , the hinge mechanism interfered with the undercarriage . The hinge mechanism was so heavy that it negated the advantages of swing wing , leading to a very poor payload to weight ratio . Studies indicated that the aircraft would run out of fuel halfway across the Atlantic , essentially killing the project . Due to this , Boeing decided to use a fixed wing platform in its next iteration , the 2707-300 , which looked quite similar to Concorde . <URL> " <URL> " by <URL> - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> .
I never landed at Courchevel , but did some aerobatic training in <URL> in the Giant Mountains of Silesia . What I learned was : A proper approach looks steeper than normal because the field inclination is steeper relative to the plane 's attitude . You need to flare sooner for two reasons : The sink speed relative to the rising ground is higher than normal , and The amount of pitch change needed to flare is larger . Even with airplanes which have a strong ground effect ( and where too fast a touchdown speed will normally result in a very long float ) the flare was short , as was the rollout distance . Do n't let speed bleed off too early , but stay on your approach speed until you are low enough to flare . Airports with slope sit on the sides of mountains . In many cases , the approach is already over rising terrain . When landing with a headwind , the wind will create a downdraft along the approach so the sink speed during the approach will be higher than normal . For glider pilots this is the biggest danger - once you are too low , you will hit the ground short of the runway . Most inclined runways show a variation in inclination along their length . This means that the relative sink speed and the necessary pitch change for a successful flare will vary with the touchdown point . Stay alert , no landing is routine ! The landing configuration and approach speed were not different from that on regular airports with level runways . Different was mostly the height at which the flare is begun . Also , at first I needed getting used to staying on my approach speed until I was low enough to flare - you need more energy to keep the airplane flying until it is level with the ground ( i.e. climbing uphill ! ) , so the final approach and flare must be executed precisely for a good landing . When I saw the runway at Zar for the first time I thought the location is sheer madness . After a few landings I learned to appreciate the benefits : Very short roll-outs and planes would land uphill only , so they come to a stop where the ( downhill ) take-off run could begin . But the approaches need to be precise ( we did mixed motor and glider flying ) especially with gliders if you want to keep your fellow glider students happy .
The question of aircraft name variants <URL> , but I just want to add that other reasons have also been proposed : The ' 8 ' in the 380 resembles the double decker configuration of A380 . It was named A380 <URL> And of course , it is the lucky number for Chinese .
I finally found an <URL> that discusses requirements for a control tower . They say : The FAA has the authority to establish control towers or discontinue control tower services through the National Airspace System when activity levels and safety considerations merit such action . In order to open a new tower , there must be a positive Benefit-Cost ratio ( which is a complicated thing to calculate ) . The FAA typically pays for the cost , and here is the criteria that they list : Criteria According to FAR Part 170.13 , the following criteria , along with general facility establishment standards , must be met before an airport can qualify for a control tower : The airport , whether publicly or privately owned , must be open to and available for use by the public as defined in the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982 ; The airport must be part of the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems ; The airport owners/authorities must have entered into appropriate assurances and covenants to guarantee that the airport will continue in operation for a long enough period to permit the amortization of the control tower investment ; The FAA must be furnished appropriate land without cost for construction of the control tower ; and The airport must meet the benefit-cost ratio criteria specified herein utilizing three consecutive FAA annual counts and projections of future traffic during the expected life of the tower facility . ( An FAA annual count is a fiscal year or a calendar year activity summary . Where actual traffic counts are unavailable or not recorded , adequately documented FAA estimates of the scheduled and nonscheduled activity may be used . ) The FARs specifically state that an airport is not guaranteed to receive a control tower , even if the airport meets all the criteria listed above . This is where the contract tower program comes in . The FAA , responding to an airport sponsor 's request for an air traffic control tower , can elect to establish a contract tower . The FAA can either elect to pay for the service in its entirety , or enter into a cost-sharing agreement with the sponsor , depending on the results of the benefit-cost analysis . Typically , the airport sponsor is responsible for 10 percent of the cost of construction and operations . For the Benefit-Cost calculation , they use the following criteria : Site-specific activity forecasts are used to estimate three categories of tower benefits : Benefits from prevented collisions between aircraft . Benefits from other prevented accidents . Benefits from reduced flying time . Explicit dollar values are assigned to the prevention of fatalities and injuries and time saved . Tower establishment costs include : Annual operating costs : staffing , maintenance , equipment , supplies , and leased services . Investment costs : facilities , equipment , and operational start-up . The article contains a lot more information , along with links to the relevant regulations , etc. .
It appears that the answer is " there is no such regulation " . For example , from AOPA 's <URL> : Airlines require that any animal on board be confined to an animal carrier at all times . Although there are no such requirements for general aviation aircraft , it is always better to err on the side of safety and keep them in a carrier .
There are two sorts of " autopilots " , and it is important to make a distinction between the two . One is for the behaviour of the aircraft around its Centre of Gravity ( CoG ) , the other one is for defining the path of the CoG . The Inner Loop autopilot : behaviour around CoG , or the aircraft attitude control . This autopilot should not be called autopilot since its characteristics are actually shielded from the pilot : it does its job without showing what it is doing . It only moves the control surfaces ( elevator , ailerons ) or helicopter swash plate , and not the flying controls ( stick , wheel ) . To the pilot , the system is invisible and just results in a stable platform , in the case of the A320 and B777 a platform with envelope protection that does not allow for the aeroplane to enter a situation that would be dangerous . In helicopters this system is referred to as Stability Augmentation System ( SAS ) . The Outer Loop autopilot : defining the path of the CoG , which is ultimately what pilots are paid for :) . They are in control of the flight path and administer this control by deflecting the flying controls ( stick , pedals ) . The pilot can delegate this control to a feedback system that provides inputs to the same flying controls , via an actuator with a slip clutch . With an old fashioned mechanical linkage , the actuator moves the whole circuit from stick to surfaces ( or swash plate in a helicopter ) ; the pilot can override this input by applying a force greater than the override force of the slip clutch . So normally , by design , the Outer Loop autopilot shows the pilots what it is doing by moving the flight path input devices for them , in a way that is transparent and can be intuitively overridden by applying a high force . It is this bit where the A320 has a different philosophy : the input stick never moves other than by the hand of the pilot . This main distinguishing feature between the two types of autopilot does not exist in an A320 . It does in a B777 , which also has an inner loop autopilot plus envelope protection , and an outer loop autopilot which actually does move the column/yoke . So the B777 is functionally identical to the A320 in every meaningful way , plus retains the feature of moving flying controls . It has no mechanical linkage , and it uses two separate sets of actuators for this function : one set for the surfaces , and one for the flying controls . This is the situation on both Airbus > A320 and Boeing > 777 , when all systems are functioning . These aircraft are all dynamically stable : aerodynamics take care of bringing back the aircraft attitude to a neutral position . The F16 for instance is aerodynamically unstable in order to provide high manoeuvrability : it always wants to pitch and roll already , and the flight control computers provide constant rapid inputs to elevators and ailerons to maintain attitude by active control . This is not the case with passenger aircraft , which do not need to be as manoeuvrable as a fighter jet and just need to bring the passengers home safely . Therefore , both on the Airbuses &amp; Boeings , the aircraft can fly without the Inner Loop autopilots as well , without any problems . The aircraft just lose their envelope protection and now it is possible to command them into potentially dangerous situations such as fully developed stalls . In both types , it is always possible to disconnect the outer loop autopilot . For the inner loop ones : The B737 does not have one . In the A320 , it is not possible to disconnect the inner loop autopilots if all is functioning correctly , except by pulling circuit breakers for resetting the ELACs as <URL> indicates ; In the B777 there is a guarded switch that allows disconnection of the envelope protection as @Cpt Reynolds pointed out . In the latter two types , the system disconnects features by itself if failures are detected , to allow control in degraded mode . Both manufacturers have implemented a direct mode as the lowest mode , where surface deflection is a direct function of stick deflection . There is however no direct mechanical cable connection to the surfaces , even the direct mode is still an electrical input , so technically still Fly By Wire . <URL> Above picture is from , and shows the top level comparison of the implementation of the flight control loops . The redundancy features are different , functionality is much the same : both implementations prevent excessive AoA that brings the aircraft into a stall , and excessive bank angle . So although the functionality of modern Airbuses and Boeings is very similar , we do often see the myth that Airbus ranks the automated systems higher than the pilot . There is a difference in user interface implementation , in that Airbus has sticks that are not coupled with each other , and have no means to be driven other than by hand . At the time of implementation , this was a new feature that pilots were not accustomed to , as was the envelope protection system . New features can be poorly understood by inexperie
You would be much better off renting the plane in the United States . It will be difficult to find a rental anywhere in the Caribbean , except maybe Puerto Rico . You may want to read Greenspun 's <URL> . It 's a little dated but has good information .
<URL> . When a business goes bankrupt or bust , depending on jurisdiction , the assets of the company may not belong to the company anymore , they may belong to creditors . Monarch may not have even owned them in the first place , since some airlines use leases from other airlines or banks to get aircraft . Even if Monarch did own the aircraft , and they went belly-up meaning the aircraft were basically nobody 's , now you have to worry about insurance and liability . The aircraft need to be insured to fly , and there is an assumption of liability if something ( like a crash ) were to happen . There are logistics like maintenance , repairs , etc. . Somebody will have to go through all the aircraft and make sure that they are legal to fly ( review logs , maintenance records , etc ) . Then you have the crews : they are not employed , and the CAA is n't going to employ a bunch of pilots for a couple of weeks just to run ferry flights . The pilots may demand benefits , etc. . It would be difficult or impossible to contract them as private parties ( since most insurance companies would not let you do that ) . So the easiest option is to let somebody else take care of all that by using charter flights . They have the infrastructure ( pilots , planes , fuel contracts , insurance , etc ) to get these people out . The CAA just has to call them up and say " we need X number of people picked up from ABC on some-date " , and the charter company takes care of it . Of course it is a little more expensive than doing it yourself , but you are n't trying to basically build a short-term airline and then shut it down again .
No , these losses are well known and are called installation losses . Their reasons are : Intake losses . In a ground test the engine will be fitted with <URL> , but none of the long intake tubes which are common especially in supersonic aircraft . Generator loads : The <URL> to supply the aircraft with electricity . This can be simulated in a ground run , but often the generator load is higher in flight . Bleed air : Some of the compressed air inside the engine is piped to a <URL> for <URL> , or used for leading edge de-icing . Again , this can be simulated in the static test but sometimes bleed air losses are higher in flight . Interference between fuselage and power plant is only to be expected with fuselage-mounted engines . This can be both beneficial ( as in the <URL> and speed on the <URL> ) , or it can distort the flow when side-mounted intakes are operated at a high sideslip angle .
end question
start question
How does the Airbus flight computer 's voting system work ?
As far as I read in various documents about A320 and remember them correctly : There are three systems handling different parts of the primary flight control : ELAC ( elevator &amp; aileron computer ) controls pitch with elevators + trim and roll with ailerons . SEC ( spoiler &amp; elevator computer ) roll with spoilers and if ELACs fail , pitch with elevators + trim . FAC ( flight augmentation computer ) implements yaw damper . It 's command is added to the rudder command . In A320 rudder pedals have direct mechanical ( hydraulic ) link . The ELAC and FAC are composed of two identical units each , the SEC of three identical units ( but only two of the units are used as backup for ELAC ) . Each unit is composed of two dissimilar computer boards . One used i386 CPU , the other m86k CPU and each has independently developed software ( to minimize risk of the same software bug in both ) . One of the boards in each pair calculates the output and the other one verifies it . If the verification fails , that unit declares fault and disconnects . This is the primary way of detecting faults . I found no reference to comparing outputs of the identical units . Except for spoiler control there are only two output and the check board is more reliable way of detecting faults anyway . If the FAC fails , the aircraft wo n't maintain coordinated flight well and will tend to dutch roll , but pilots can compensate it with rudder input . If the SEC fails , the ELAC can handle control alone . Just spoilers wo n't be available . If the ELAC fails , the SEC can take over too . Turning with spoilers may cause some more drag , but not a big problem . If both ELAC and SEC fail , the pitch trim wheels have direct mechanical ( hydraulic ) link and roll can be controlled by rudder by taking advantage of the yaw stability . I do n't think it was ever needed in practice . Note , that is for A320 family ; which controls are available in case of failure of all flight computers is different in each Airbus type . As for data input , there are three ADIRUs ( air data and inertial reference unit ) and each flight computer takes input from all three and compares them . It needs two matching ( similar within some limit ) values to consider it trustworthy . If either more than one unit fails or no two agree , the flight computers degrade to alternate law or direct law . In alternate law , the system stops providing alpha protection ( stall ) , overspeed protection and , depending on what failed , other flight envelope protection ( there are two kinds , with different protections lost ) . In direct law it reverts to directly mapping the stick position to control surface position similar to mechanical controls . But most faults only result in alternate law except if all inertial references were lost ( that would be very difficult to handle as it would mean unreliable attitude indicators too , but I do n't think that ever happened either ; the inertial systems are very reliable ) . Alternate or direct law can also be entered if some control surface ( or it 's actuator ) fails and somewhere in the computer failure sequence , but I do n't remember the exact condition ( FACs calculate the limits , so if FACs fail , it will certainly degrade ) .
I 'd suggest that you review the topic of <URL> , first , and then review how a <URL> works as it does n't sound like you 're very familiar with engine components ; I 've never heard of a ' pressure chamber ' or ' fire output controller ' . Modern jet aircraft technically do n't use throttles ; rather they are equipped with thrust levers which are connected to a Fuel Control Unit ( FCU ) . This can come in the form of a mechanical computer in the case of earlier engines or a digital electronic computer called a Fully Authority Digital Engine Controller ( FADEC ) , similar to the schematic in <URL> for the F100 fighter engine installation on the F-16 airplane . Early jet aircraft did use a throttle - literally a cockpit lever connected to a throttleable valve to precisely meter fuel into the combustion chamber ( s ) of the engine . This could be problematic to operate in flight as the fuel rate has to be changed as altitude - and consequently combustor inlet conditions - changes , making the engine vulnerable to flameouts from excessively rich fuel flow and compressor stalls from abrupt throttle changes . FCUs were developed , specific to each engine to offer simplified control .
European Civil Aviation Authorities use the imperial system to depict altitudes and airspace restrictions ( feet ) , speeds ( knots ) and distances ( nautical miles ) . Some VFR aircraft have speed indicators in km/h , gliders can have altitude and variometer in meters and meters/second and apart from a special ICAO VFR chart being available in metric in Germany , the AIP itself and all other charts always use imperial units . Related question : <URL>
I ca n't say if anyone has looked at a short-haul version of the A380 , but we can look to the Boeing <URL> for comparison . In addition to removing the wingtip extensions and winglets as described in the Wikipedia article , a friend at Boeing described to me other changes needed . Boeing beefed up the wing box due to the increased landing cycles . There were also some changes to the brakes to improve cooling as the short flights did n't provide adequate time to cool the brakes passively . It should be noted that ANA was the only customer with 19 aircraft built . They retired the last of them 3 years ago . So it would appear that there is n't much of a market for a short haul jumbo .
Some aircraft may have a special " ETOPS APU " that can be purchased , but many aircraft simply have THE APU that they come with . It is maintained to the standards required in the approved ETOPS program , and is either run during the ETOPS portion of the flight , or else has some means to ensure that it will reliably start even when cold-soaked . ( For instance , at least one ETOPS program requires that the APU be started shortly before the top-of-descent on enough flights to " prove " that it does , in fact , start up reliably even in a worst-case cold-soaked scenario . ) Most ( perhaps all ) APU 's in aircraft currently in production have the general capability of being started in flight , so that particular aspect of things is n't unique to the ETOPS world . Documenting the reliability of the APU is a uniquely ETOPS thing , but so much of ETOPS is about exactly that : demonstrating and documenting just how reliable the hardware is . It often is n't different hardware , but the same equipment as in a non-ETOPS aircraft , but maintained &amp; tracked to higher standards .
Your understanding is partly right . Usually HSI indicators are associated with a slaving transmitter that includes the flux gate ( the magnetic sensor ) , but also other elements such the directional gyro unit and a slaving control . So a typical system will usually include the below components ( there are different designs , so check the characteristics of the equipment in your aircraft ) : The Horizontal Situation Indicator ( HSI ) is the panel mounted cockpit indicator that provides a comprehensive display including usually at least heading , course , and glide scope . The heading indicator of the HSI is a remote indicating compass that gets its information from a remote slaving transmitter . The magnetic slaving transmitter includes the flux gate that is the magnetic sensor itself , and some electronics to send the heading information to the directional gyro and HSI . This transmitter and its associated flux gate is usually located in a wingtip to minimize as much as possible magnetic interference . a directional gyro unit that is usually remote mounted . It is using its internal gyroscope to keep and provide a stable heading reference during turns . This gyro unit is driven/slaved to the slaving transmitter . The slaving control is panel mounted and allows to selected either " slaved gyro " or " free gyro " mode . Usually , the system is in " slaved gyro " mode and will be slaved automatically . In " free gyro " mode , a slaving meter indicator displays the difference between indicator display and earth 's magnetic field , and it is possible to align manually the switch using clockwise or counterclockwise buttons . The manual of the Bendix-King KCS 55A provides a good introduction to HSI design and operation : <URL>
Type of modulation in term of ITU classification In the context of radiocommunication , PCM is more accurately described as ITU class <URL> : As bits are transmitted one by one , the carrier is sent or interrupted , according to the bit value . Phase and frequency are maintained constant . It 's like morse at high speed . It can also be seen as amplitude modulation ( either the carrier has its maximum amplitude , or a null amplitude ) . This form of modulation is also commonly known as binary amplitude shift keying ( BASK ) or on-off keying ( OOK ) , and is a variant of pulse amplitude modulation ( PAM ) . See <URL> for more details . Data communication , on the borders of multiple engineering disciplines is quite generous with synonyms . There is a common confusion between A1D modulation and the PCM codec used in the context of audio files . This PCM is a near-lossless codec ( coder-decoder ) used in <URL> and legacy <URL> , and has nothing to do with a modulation . But anyway ... this produces this oscillogram ( bottom : bits to transmit , top : signal transmitted by the antenna ) : <URL> <URL> A binary 1 pulse generates a burst of the carrier wave . A1D is often used to transmit information at low speed , because it 's not very efficient in term of bandwidth , and this bandwidth increases with the data transmission rate . Sending the 12 bits of a transponder every now and then was okay in the past ( where the 12 bits come from ? see <URL> ) . A1D is also used by GPS satellites which are actually slow data broadcasters . Sort of signal : Analog vs digital At the antenna the signal is the modulated carrier , and it 's always an analog signal , regardless of the nature of information to carry . The carrier is generally a high frequency sine wave . The carrier is modulated by the twelve bits of mode A and C information , which are digital ( binary ) : Each bit , one after the other , modulates the carrier , that is the carrier is interrupted or transmitted according to the bit value , for a given period of time . Modulation means changing something on the carrier to " imprint " the information into it , so that it can be demodulated at the receiver side . The " something " can be one ( or more ) of the three properties of a wave : Amplitude , phase or frequency . In A1D , this is the amplitude ( as the " A " indicates ) . The modulated signal at the antenna will still be an analog sine wave , so no strong interference will occur ( though A1D is not the most friendly class of modulation in term of spectrum use ) . But , why do we need a carrier in the first place ? ( baseband vs passband ) Transmission of the raw information without modulation is said a baseband transmission . This is used for instance in Ethernet over twisted pair ( e.g. 100base-T , where base just means baseband ) . The signal is ranging from 0 Hz to 100 MHz ( assuming a random distribution of the data ) . Therefore if there were two channels at the same time on the wire , a receiver would receive data without being able to identify the channel ( not mentioning the fact that each channel would destroy information of the other channel ) . The only way to share the medium is to limit the transmission to a single channel at a time , and this is what is done in Ethernet ( by <URL> ) . However collision detection does n't work when there is an unlimited number of transmitters , collision avoidance would leave no time for a useful transmission . The other way is to add some fixed frequency to the second channel , e.g. by adding 100 MHz , the second channel frequency will now range from 100 MHz to 200 MHz , and a receiver can easily separate each channel ( by frequency filtering ) and receive both . The second channel data will then be obtained by subtracting 100 MHz from the signal . This principle is just the one we know for radio , with a carrier ( the fixed frequency the receiver is tuned for ) and a modulation method . Technically this is called " passband " transmission . The last step : Demodulation The receiver receives the modulated carrier , usually very weak , and often distorted . The demodulation step is to extract the original information from the carrier by looking at the carrier property that was changed to carry the information . For A1D modulation this is indeed immediate , carrier presence = bit of value 1 , no carrier = bit of value 0 ( this can be inverted if required , just a matter of agreement between the transmitter and the receiver ) . Now you can look again at the previous oscillogram and think the top describes the signal received by the receiver antenna , and the bottom is the original information extracted by the demodulator stage . The binary signal received is not perfect , but it will be discriminated as 0 or 1 depending on whether the value is smaller or larger than a given threshold ( so some errors can occur , there are solutions to prevent that ) . The carrier is then discarded . Its role was only to carry the payload .
First of all you should know that a Kalman filter is a state estimation technique . More than a filter , it is an estimator . Whilst it does filter sensor noise in the process , the most important use is to estimate the state of a system . The KF uses a mathematical model of a system ( e.g. an aircraft moving over the earth ) to estimate the state of the system ( e.g. position , attitude , velocity ) by comparing successive measurements to the values that were expected based of previous estimates of the state . Does the Kalman filter compensate the errors from all the onboard sensors ? No . Firstly , there are many sensors on board , not all are used in Kalman filters . Secondly , you ca n't fully compensate for all errors , there will always be residual errors in the output . IIRC the Kalman filter is a tracker , that predicts future computation values . How is this useful here ? It can be used as a tracker indeed . The KF uses its current estimation of the state of the system to predict the state at the time of the next measurement . The differences between the predicted measurement and the actual measurements are then used correct the estimation of the state and update the state uncertainty model . Is this used on IRS as well ? Or only on older INS ? Yes , the KF ( usually a more advanced form such as EKF or AKF ) is used to fuse data from the multiple sensors is the IRS . In an ADIRU , not only measurements from accelerometers and gyroscopes are used , but also pitot tube and static port measurements are fused in .
Inertial Navigation Systems , unlike other navigation systems , do not depend on external ( radio ) measurements . Instead an INS keeps track of its position by accurately measuring acceleration ( accelerometers ) and rotation ( gyroscopes ) . It therefore works in remote areas where there are no ground based navaids available . Initially , the INS gets its position from pilot input at the gate , or in more recent systems from GPS , sometimes even during flight . By measuring all the accelerations and rotations and integrating them into speed and direction the position is tracked . In doing this , the INS has to correct for the rotation of the earth and the related Coriolis force . Due to small inaccuracies in the measurements the velocity error and , with that , the position errors grow over time . <URL> has quite a detailed article about the history and working of the INS . While raw INS position has mainly been replaced by GPS measurements on oceanic flights , the system is not being phased out . GPS is a sensitive systems and by crosschecking it with INS , errors can be detected in both systems . It is often used as a backup to GPS . Integrated GPS / INS systems provide better systems integrity and allow the navigation system to coast through short GPS outages with high accuracies . In addition to that , the ( laser ) gyroscopes of the INS are often used to provide data to the digital artificial horizon displays in the cockpit and to the auto flight systems . In this case the term Inertial Reference Unit ( IRU ) is used , which acts as a basis for the INS .
The answer is in two parts . First , at higher speeds , control surfaces have more air moving over them and so they do n't have to angle as much to provide the same force necessary to move the jet as they do at slower speeds . In fact , a thin control surface like this canard will stall at lower angles of attack than a thicker profile would ( the thinner profile reduces drag which is why it 's used here ) , and a stalled surface ca n't do its job . Second , modern jets like the Rafale have fly-by-wire systems with flight limiters , to avoid the pilot overstressing the airframe at high speeds . The first video shows the Rafale in landing configuration , approaching a carrier at maybe 150kts . The second video shows high-G maneuvers at probably between 300 and 400kts . The forces at play on the canard are , in general , related to the square of the speed of the air moving past them , so if the system allowed the canards to present the same angle to a 300-knot flow as a 150-knot flow , all other things being equal the canard would be under 4 times the stress . At 450 knots that canard would be under 9 times the stress . Very quickly you would exceed the mechanical strength of that canard surface entirely , and then you would n't have a canard surface at all . So instead , the canards are moved at a shallower angle , with the difference in pitch rate , up to what the flight limiter will allow the entire aircraft to do , is made up using the elevons on the wings .
No . The dihedral effect depends on a flow asymmetry between left and right wing . Coordinated flight means that both wings have the same flow conditions , and the only asymmetry between both is caused by control deflections . You do have a flow asymmetry during a turn ( coordinated or not ) from the speed difference between the inner and the outer wing which grows with the turn rate and wing span . This does indeed cause more lift on the outer wing , but due to the difference in dynamic pressure , not due to dihedral . Since dihedral causes a side force component of lift , you can argue that the outer wing creates more side force which pushes the plane into the turn . But the pilot will compensate the difference in dynamic pressure with the ailerons to stop any rolling motion once the desired turn rate is stabilized . This will also equal the lift on both wings . Another asymmetry is caused by the location of the vertical tail aft of the center of gravity . Essentially , the tail swings around during the turn , which causes a sideslip condition at the vertical tail . The result is a side force which grows with turn rate and tail lever arm , and due to the high location of most vertical tails also causes a small rolling moment . But again the wing 's dihedral has nothing to do with that . Dihedral only comes into play if you build up a sideslip , and then the turn is not coordinated any longer . @Zeus is right with his point that dihedral stabilizes the aircraft and makes it easier to keep the turn a coordinated one . Now we can split hairs all day if flying in turbulence makes a perfectly coordinated turn impossible . When it comes to dynamic stability , a <URL> is highly recommended .
I did n't do statistics , but <URL> lists units to low tens a year worldwide . Most of them happen at airport due to fire indication ( sometimes even false ) or smoke on board . On the ground , fire spreads a lot faster than while flying , because when flying , the wind is too strong and blowing the flames off . The most notable example would be <URL> . The aircraft was already at the gate when the flames were first noticed , evacuation was immediately initiated and by the time everybody left , it was already engulfed in flames , about 3 minutes after the fire started . While China Air might not be " western " in strict sense of the world , it is largest airline on Taiwan and follows the same standards . Another notable accident is <URL> . Here are some recent evacuations mentioned on AvHerald : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Notice , that they are all smoke or fire events . For some other reasons , see e.g. : <URL> <URL> two similar accidents where both aircraft were evacuated via slides . The reason in these , and many other gear collapse incidents , is that they do n't want to wait in a damaged plane where there is a risk of fire , plus the difficulty of getting stairs to the aircraft resting in strange attitude .
The B-2 's pitot plate has actually been <URL> in conditions that may or may not have had the same effect on aircraft with pitot tubes . Pitot plates work much like pitot tubes ; they measure the pressure of incoming air . The main difference is just how they measure it : pitot tubes measure the ram force of air while pitot plates measuring how much air is constricted by an obstruction . Pitot plates direct air through a " plate " with a hole that impedes the flow almost like how a Venturi tube accelerates fluids . Pictured : Pitot/Orifice plate <URL> Pitot tubes are easier to maintain , inspect , and install . Some of their main problems that you might not encounter with a pitot plate , such as icing , are countered with tested and approved safety systems ( like heating ) . In addition , pitot tubes are not the only instrument to measure airspeed ; most commercial and GA aircraft use pitot-static systems in which other pressure sensors are used to get a better and more reliable reading . Pitot plates are advantageous in that they reduce air pressure about 5:1 rather than the pitot tube 's 10:1 ( meaning yes , less drag in some sense ) but on such a tiny scale it makes barely any difference . On the flip side , pitot plates have very inaccurate readings at lower speeds ( though so low that it probably would not matter for any jet aircraft ) . Also , it is to my knowledge that pitot plates are used mainly for fluid research , sometimes not even related to aviation . Since pitot tubes are relatively small compared to the size of an aircraft and are streamlined anyway , there would be little to no noticeable improvement in aerodynamics . You would think that jetliners have completely clean surfaces , but guess again : Removing a pitot tube wo n't make a difference . Note : the gray circles outlined in dotted red boxes are pitot-static ports , which , combined with an aircraft 's pitot tubes , make up the pitot-static system . They can measure air pressure for both airspeed and altitude among other things . Final thing I wanted to clear up : flat surfaces are generally less aerodynamic than curved surfaces . Someone got too much of that idea when designing this plane ... / s
Feathering is not engine starting , and also is not used in turbine ( excluding turboprop ) aircraft . In a piston or turbo prop aircraft , in the event of an engine failure , to decrease drag so you can either glide farther or have better performance on the remaining engine ( s ) , you can set the prop pitch lever so instead of facing at a right angle to drive air backwards and produce thrust , the propeller will instead turn edge-first into the airstream , reducing drag . Not all propeller airplanes have this capability , but it 's an added safety feature . In motorgliders ( both light sport aircraft and primary ) without retracting blades , the feathering position turns the prop so that the edge faces into the airstream and also locks the propeller so it no longer turns .
Virtual breakers use <URL> : A solid-state relay ( SSR ) is an electronic switching device that switches on or off when a small external voltage is applied across its control terminals . The relay may be designed to switch either AC or DC to the load . It serves the same function as an electromechanical relay , but has no moving parts . According to <URL> for its 787 : The remote power distribution units ( RPDUs ) are largely based on solid-state power controllers ( SSPC ) instead of the traditional thermal circuit breakers and relays . The standards for the solid state power controllers in aircraft is set by <URL> . Related : <URL>
<URL> They provide unambiguous and easily understood English words in a uniform manner in place of the original designations , which either may have been unknown to the Western world at the time or easily confused codes . Much the like the NATO alphabet rules the names but be easy to understand ( possibly under multiple speaking accents ) and must be non ambiguous . The following rules are also applied Aircraft The first letter indicates the type of aircraft , like Bear for a bomber aircraft , or Fulcrum for a fighter aircraft . F -- fighter aircraft , also later ground attack aircraft : <URL> B -- bomber aircraft : <URL> C -- commercial aircraft and airliners , and cargo aircraft : <URL> H -- helicopters : <URL> M -- Miscellaneous ; trainers , reconnaissance , seaplanes , tankers , AEW etc. : <URL> For fixed-wing aircraft , one syllable names were used for propeller-powered craft ( turboprops included ) , while two-syllable names indicated jet engines .
Most aircraft utilize a weight on wheels switch . When the landing strut is compressed when ground contact is made , the weight on wheels switch is activated . The signal is distributed to various systems in the aircraft , including the spoiler system . The spoiler is activated as soon as the aircraft touches the ground to " scrub off " any lift and to make sure the aircraft does n't become airborne as the jet engines spool down .
On many early jet airliners water was sprayed it into the engine air intake or compressor where evaporation cooled the air and allowed cooler , denser air to be ingested by the engine . The result was increased thrust , especially needed for operation from hot and high airfields , or a cooler temperature in the hot section of the engine at the same thrust . From <URL> : Water injection was first used over 45 years ago on commercial transport aircraft to increase thrust . Boeing 707-120 aircraft with Pratt &amp; Whitney JT3C-6 engines and later , the Boeing 747-100 &amp; 200 aircraft with Pratt &amp; Whitney JT9D-3AW and -7 AW engines , all used water injection for thrust augmentation . This report discusses various techniques for water injection : ahead of the low pressure compressor . This is the common method for thrust increase in hot and high conditions . ahead of the high pressure turbine . This is used in cold weather , when injection ahead of the low pressure compressor would run the risk of ice accretion . together with fuel into the combustor . This technique is commonly used with stationary gas turbines in order to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions . And <URL> is more specific on the system : Four water-injected Pratt &amp; Whitney JT3C -- 6 engines were used on early Boeing 707 -- 120 Stratoliner aircraft to augment takeoff thrust on days above 20 ° F . This system used a belly tank to store demineralized water and an electrically driven boost pump to deliver water to the four engines . At that point , an engine-driven mechanical pump increased the pressure to about 400 psi for injection before the low-pressure compressor ( LPC ) on days as cold as or colder than 40 ° F and for injection into the high-pressure compressor ( HPC ) only on days between 40 and 20 ° F . What would happen if kerosene instead of water was filled into the water tanks was tried out by a <URL> : The aircraft collided with a bridge , shearing off both wings , after a double engine failure occurred during takeoff . The water-injection system to cool the engines during takeoff was inadvertently filled with kerosene instead of water . More recent work on water injection focused on the reduction of nitrogen oxides which form in lean combustion and high temperature . By lowering the temperature level of the combustion process , the <URL> can be greatly reduced .
I 'll expand on the other answers here . Wind : The biggest factor in this is wind . Winds at common cruising altitude can sometimes reach well into the 100 Knot spectrum . Keep in mind that this can be in any direction . So lets say a long haul flight has a 100 Knot headwind half the year and a 100 Knot tail wind for the other half . That 's a 200 Knot ground speed difference which can really make an impact on flight time . ATC Holds Vary : ATC for various reasons may put a plane into a holding pattern on arrival . This may add to the time spent in the air for a given flight depending on the hold . Landing Slots : There are <URL> here in the US ( and presumably others elsewhere ) that require planed ahead landing slots . If the slot time changes but the departure time remains the same an airline may chose to slow the plane a bit ( or speed it up a bit ) to compensate . Aircraft Loading : Aircraft efficiency ( and subsequently speed ) will vary a bit with the loading of the aircraft . Since not every flight on a given route is loaded equally there may be efficiency gained or lost as a result of loading .
Airline food is usually <URL> and loaded on the aircraft , where it is reheated and served . In some cases , the food is half-prepared on ground and completed in air ( in onboard ovens ) . However , in some cases ( Emirate Airlines , for example ) business class customers can have ( some type of ) food prepared in-flight .
end question
start question
What is the difference between a tire deflation and a tire explosion ?
An exploding tire while the plane is rolling will propel debris in various directions . This happened with the <URL> on takeoff . A chunk of the tire hit the tanks and caused a punctured in it . This then lead to the fire and loss of power .
There are indeed only two ' official ' classifications of aviation incidents , which are defined in <URL> . Accident . An occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft which takes place between the time any person boards the aircraft with the intention of flight until such time as all such persons have disembarked , in which : a ) a person is fatally or seriously injured as a result of being in the aircraft , or direct contact with any part of the aircraft , including parts which have become detached from the aircraft , or direct exposure to jet blast , except when the injuries are from natural causes , self inflicted or inflicted by other persons , or when the injuries are to stowaways hiding outside the areas normally available to the passengers and crew : or b ) the aircraft sustains damage or structural failure which : adversely affects the structural strength , performance or flight characteristics of the aircraft , and would normally require major repair or replacement of the affected component , except for engine failure or damage . when the damage is limited to the engine , its cowlings or accessories : or for damage limited to propellers , wing tips , antennas , tires , brakes , fairings , small dents or puncture holes in the aircraft skin : or c ) the aircraft is missing or is completely inaccessible . Note I. -- For statistical uniformity only , an injury resulting in death within thirty days of the date of the accident is classified as a fatal injury by ICAO . Note 2 . -- An aircraft is considered to be missing when the official search has been terminated and the wreckage has not been located . And then there is Incident . An occurrence , other than an accident , associated with the operation of an aircraft which affects or could affect the safety of operation . They do also define ' serious incident ' , but simply as an incident which was nearly an accident ; which is still an ' incident ' by the definition above .
ICAO and FAA CAT III definitions A CAT III operation is a precision approach at lower than CAT II minima . Sub-categories are listed below . A category III A approach is a precision instrument approach and landing with no decision height or a decision height lower than 100ft ( 30m ) and a runway visual range not less than 700ft ( 200m ) . A category III B approach is a precision approach and landing with no decision height or a decision height lower than 50ft ( 15m ) and a runway visual range less than 700ft ( 200m ) , but not less than 150ft ( 50m ) . A category III C approach is a precision approach and landing with no decision height and no runway visual range limitation . * I 've omitted the JAA definitions . Source <URL> . FAA Reference Material The below links are to comprehensive FAA publications covering the areas as titled . <URL> . <URL> . Thanks <URL> for the comment with links to these documents .
TL ; DR The angle is about 1 degree . The best reference I can think of is the <URL> . This provides key dimensions for the A330 family . I looked at the dimensions for the forward and aft lower deck cargo doors . The document provides both the distance from the ground to the floor of the hold ( § 2-3-0 ) , and to the door center from the nose ( § 2-7-0 ) . With this information , an inverse tangent will give the angle of the deck between the doors . There are two factors that affect these numbers . First , the three models of aircraft have different measurements . The other factor is weight and balance of the aircraft , which affects how much the suspension on each gear is compressed . A heavier aircraft will sit lower to the ground , and the location of the center of gravity will affect how much weight is resting on each landing gear position . Calculating the angles gives the following angles . Note the larger angle on the shorter -200 , and the difference of about a degree between the values on the -200 and the freighter -200 F. Although 1 degree may not seem like much , note the difference of about 33 cm ( 13 in . ) height between the -200 and the -200 F at the forward cargo door . This is near the nose gear , which is the reason that modifications were necessary to fit the extra nose gear length in the gear bay . -300 176,000 kg , CG 26.8 % : 1.2 deg MRW , CG 15 % : 1.1 deg MRW , CG 36.5 % : 0.8 deg -200 119,000 kg , mid CG : 1.4 deg MRW , CG 21 % : 1.3 deg MRW , CG 37.5 % : 0.8 deg -200 F 115,000 kg , CG 20 % : 0.4 deg MRW , CG 20.6 % : 0.2 deg MRW , CG 37.4 % : 0 deg
You 're right -- the boundary layer is related to lift production since , in a subsonic example , " guides " the air relative to the airfoil shape and enables the necessary flow accelerations that create the pressure differential and downwash . However , a thick boundary layer is not necessarily a good deal , especially on an airplane wing . I think that <URL> makes a good reference here . The thicker than a boundary layer is , the greater the velocity and pressure gradient across it . Therefore , the chance of flow separation ( think of stall , when flow is no longer following the airfoil contour and is creating a ton of drag and not much lift ) is also higher . This consideration is further outlined <URL> ( a major technical university in the Netherlands ) . If the boundary layer is allowed to grow and is allowed to remain laminar , separation occurs relatively early , leading to dramatically increased drag and a similar reduction in lift . Artificial " tripping " ( i.e. , the introduction of turbulence ) of the boundary layer prior to laminar separation re-energizes the boundary layer and allows it to remain attached for longer . It can also decrease your drag by some amount , but that 's another story unto itself . This ( or some more active sort of boundary layer control ) is what I 'm guessing you 're referring to when you talk about keeping the boundary layer thin . It is , with the exception of circulation control and insofar as I 'm familiar with it , related to energizing the boundary layer to delay flow separation as long as possible .
Both pressure and velocity are related : The total energy of an air molecule outside of the boundary layer is constant and the sum of its pressure and its velocity component . Mathematically , the energy per unit of volume is $ $ \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 + p = const $ $ which is actually the simplest form of <URL> which neglects changes in altitude and temperature . In the end , it 's not this causes that , but both components fluctuate in sync and combine to a constant total . Nomenclature : $ \ rho \ :\ : $ density $ v \ :\ : $ speed $ p \ :\ : $ pressure
Do they generate the same navigation signal ? The DVOR reverses the useage of the two 30Hz signals . However , by also reversing the direction of it 's rotating variable signal it produces exactly the same result in the receiver . The receiver has no " knowledge " that it 's a DVOR as opposed to CVOR it 's receiving and operates as normal . Can they be used by the same receiver , or do VOR receivers need to be specially adapted to DVORs ? Affirm , same receiver . Is one more accurate than the other ? DVOR is more accurate , and more expensive . CVOR is required to be ± 4 ° , however DVOR is required to be ± 1 ° , per Convention on International Civil Aviation Annex 10 , Volume 1 . Is one more susceptible to interference than the other ? The DVOR is more practical in crowded areas or where there are tall buildings . However , it 's a big structure - around 100ft in diameter . Sources : <URL> p. 295 , <URL> , and <URL>
Flight levels use <URL> or pressure altitude , while altitude references <URL> or local pressure adjusted to sea level pressure . Altitudes are used at low levels and flight levels at higher levels . The transition between altitudes and flight levels differs by country and is generally just above the highest obstacle in that country . In the US the transition altitude/level is 18,000 ' / FL180 . Some countries transition as low as 5000 ' / FL050 and the transition altitude/level may vary from airport to airport . In the altitudes knowing accurate elevations relative to the ground and obstacles is important for collision avoidance and this is the reason QNH is used here . Each airport will report QNH and controllers will issue the current QNH as needed . You need to know the QNH for obstacle / terrain avoidance but you need to be using the same QNH as those around you for aircraft vertical separation . Above all terrain/obstacles the only thing we care about is vertical separation , so we no longer need to know about the actual pressure and instead use a standard reference pressure , QNE / 1013.25 hPa / 29.92 " Hg . Note that flight levels drop the last two zeros of the corresponding altitude and so 30,000 is FL300 , not FL30000 . When checking in with a controller , FL300 would be pronounced . It is also worth noting that an altimeter can not actually determine altitude . It can only determine pressure ( technically local static pressure compared to a reference pressure ) . It converts this pressure to an altitude using a calibrated non-linear scale . To illustrate the point , look at this map of 500 mb heights : 500 mb correlates to 5500 m or 18,000 ft in a standard atmosphere . In a real atmosphere this height varies and is not actually level . An airplane flying " level " at FL180 from LAX to NYC last night will have actually descended almost 300 m while indicating a constant altitude . These deviations in true altitude from indicated altitude are acceptable , however , since they effect everyone equally in the same locality and separation is maintained .
Both engines use a turbine for power . This is where the " turbo " part of the name comes from . In a turbine engine , air is compressed and then fuel is ignited in this compressed air . The energy produced by the ignition turns the turbine . The turbine is then able to drive both the compressor at the front of the engine and also some useful load . In airplanes , it produces thrust . The first jet engine was a turbojet . This is a simple turbine engine that produces all of its thrust from the exhaust from the turbine section . However , because all of the air is passing through the whole turbine , all of it must burn fuel . This means it is inefficient , and the solution is the turbofan . In a turbofan , the turbine primarily drives a fan at the front of the engine . Most engines drive the fan directly from the turbine . There are usually at least two separate shafts to allow the fan to spin slower than the inner core of the engine . The fan is surrounded by a cowl which guides the air to and from the fan . Part of the air enters the turbine section of the engine , and the rest is bypassed around the engine . In high-bypass engines , most of the air only goes through the fan and bypasses the rest of the engine and providing most of the thrust . In a turboprop , the turbine primarily drives a propeller at the front of the engine . There is no cowl around the prop . Some air enters the turbine , the rest does not . The propeller is geared to allow it to spin slower than the turbine . Although this diagram shows only a single shaft , many turboprops have two , with a high pressure shaft driving the compressor and a low pressure shaft driving the propeller . Some engines such as the popular <URL> also reverse the flow direction multiple times . Turboprops are more efficient at lower speeds since the prop can move much more air with a smaller turbine than the fan on a turbofan engine . The cowl around the turbofan 's large fan allows it to perform better than an open propeller at high speeds , but limits the practical size of the fan . At supersonic speeds , turbojets have more of a performance benefit . They develop all of their thrust from the high velocity turbine exhaust , while turbofans supplement that with the lower velocity air from the fan . Since the air from the fan is also not compressed nearly as much as the core turbine flow , it is also harder to prevent the flow from going supersonic and causing losses . The Concorde used turbojets because it was designed to cruise for long periods at supersonic speeds . Modern fighter jet engines are turbofans , which provide a compromise between efficiency and speed . There are other benefits and drawbacks between turbojets , turbofans , and turboprops , but I think they are beyond the scope of this question . Work has been done on creating a " propfan " engine , in an attempt to get the efficiency of a turboprop and the speed of a turbofan . They have yet to come up with a viable design . Elsewhere in aviation , turbine engines are used in helicopters , as a <URL> driving the rotors instead of a propeller , and with a freewheeling clutch to enable autorotations <URL> s in jet aircraft and large turboprop aircraft Turbines also find use outside of aviation in power plants ( to generate electricity ) , and even vehicles ( like the Abrams tank ) . Turbocharged piston engines use a turbine much differently from the examples above . Instead of being the primary power source , the turbine only assists the piston engine . A turbocharger uses a turbine to compress air sent to the engine intake . The increased compression helps the engine generate more power . The turbine of a turbocharger is driven by engine exhaust gasses , and a supercharger is similar but is directly powered by the engine . See the <URL> for more detail .
An adiabatic expansion lowers temperature , an adiabatic compression raises temperature , analogous to the way a refrigerator and an air conditioner work . Or a bicycle pump , it gets quite hot while you 're pumping air . A shock wave compresses air - at supersonic speeds the object travels faster than the pressure information , and when the object arrives at a bit of air it compresses suddenly in a shock wave , with corresponding higher temperature .
PNR is a passenger 's / party 's record . PNL is the full list of all the PNR 's . Example : John Smith is a party of 1 , that 's the PNR entry . And he is number 7 on the PNL .
Both a POH and an AFM meet the " Operating Limitations " requirement in the <URL> acronym . The difference between the two is mainly in length and content : an AFM is usually a thinner document , satisfying the requirements of <URL> and not much else , while a POH contains these required items plus other information like system diagrams ( The contents &amp; format of a POH are standardized in <URL> ) . Parts of the POH ( like the Limitations section ) are FAA-Approved , and serve as the AFM , and both documents are typically associated with a specific airframe ( by serial number ) . A better explanation might be this : The is a regulatory document ( it 's contents are prescribed under the section of the regulations the aircraft was certificated under - Part 23 , Part 25 , etc ) . The is a GAMA-defined document whose contents meet the regulatory requirements of an AFM , and present other information in a standardized way so that a pilot can go from a Cessna to a Piper to a Mooney to a Socata and browse the book to learn about the airplane they 're about to fly with all the information presented the same way no matter who the manufacturer is . The other two types of documents you may encounter are an " Owner 's Manual " ( which usually goes along with a thinner AFM &amp; provides some of the information found in the newer-style POH ) and a Pilot Information Manual ( PIM ) which is a " generic " version of the POH which many pilots buy so they can study the procedures without removing the regulatory document from the aircraft . <URL> talks a little about the differences between the two documents ( and a whole lot of other flight documents ) .
Published waypoints are waypoints that appear on the charts and in the published navigation databases used by GPS navigators or FMSes . They are referenced using the published identifier for the waypoint . Examples : TPA , ITAWT . Unpublished waypoints are waypoints created by the pilot . FMS allow for the creation/entry of a waypoint by the pilot . The waypoint is defined by one of the following : Latitude/Longitude Place/Bearing/Distance Place-Bearing/Place-Bearing The pilot-defined waypoint can then be added to the flight plan . Here 's a snip of how a waypoint is defined in an A320 : <URL> As to when you would use it , the short answer is when you need to or want to . A common example would be to deviate a short distance off an airway ( maybe 5 or 10 nm ) to avoid a temporary flight restriction . You would just want to avoid the restricted airspace and using a published waypoint or waypoints would take you farther off your route than necessary .
Actually , " stay in the pattern " is non-standard phraseology and should n't be used , even though it means the same thing as " <URL> . Specifying the direction is n't required but it is a good idea to ensure that everybody is thinking the same thing .
It 's tough to tell based on your question , but I think you are talking about an inspection due to an over-G reported on a flight either by the pilot or the flight control system post-flight report . Maintainers will do inspections of known stress points on the aircraft to look for breaks , cracking or loosened parts and then declare it safe for flight or fix anything out of tolerance . For a low level over-G , this could be pulling a few panels . For higher level over-Gs it could be 8 hours worth of work
It 's not this does that and nothing else . It is always a combination . In climb you need to provide more energy to the aircraft because you are increasing it 's potential energy . This can be taken from the energy which would have been spent to overcome drag in horizontal flight by flying slower . Less energy is needed to sustain the now lower flight speed , so some is left for climbing . When you pull on the stick , you trim the aircraft for a lower flight speed ( at least if you fly a naturally stable configuration ) , so some of the excess energy needs to be spent in other ways . The aircraft climbs . If you advance the throttle , the trimmed speed will stay the same , but now more energy is available to be spent . It will be spent on climbing , because speed is already set by your elevator angle . In a non-supercharged ( normally aspirated ) piston engine , the decreasing air density with increasing altitude will provide less air with every filling of the pistons . You need to lean the engine to keep the fuel-to-air ratio constant , so the engine will consume less fuel at the same engine speed , but also provide less power and thrust . Since air is also thinner for all other parts of the airplane , your true air speed will increase , your drag will decrease at the same true air speed and you can fly faster . But since your normally aspirated engine will provide less power , you need to advance the throttle in order to keep your attitude , speed , and climb rate . At some point , you will reach maximum power , and as you climb further , climb speed will decline until you reach the maximum flight altitude your airplane is capable of . Flying higher will increase the efficiency of the engine due to lower air temperature , but this effect is small for piston-powered aircraft . Once you switch to supercharged aircraft , turboprops , and jets , however , <URL> . Flight speed , however , does make a substantial difference , especially for piston-powered aircraft . Their <URL> is $ c_L = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ Lambda } $ and is rather high . Flying low means that you will fly a lot faster than what this optimum demands , and the higher you fly , the closer you will be to this optimum , simply because your engine will not allow a higher speed . That is why flying higher helps to fly more efficiently .
At the absolute simplest , compared to a two-bladed propeller , a slightly smaller three-bladed propeller can produce more thrust at a given RPM , improving climb performance . Because of the smaller diameter , the propeller tips actually travel slower than the equivalent two-bladed design , reducing noise inside and outside the airplane . Hartzell Propeller has a great <URL> . Their explanation of why more blades produces less noise is pretty good : A 2-blade propeller produces two pressure pulses per revolution , where a 3-blade propeller will produce three smaller pulses per revolution ( for the same amount of total thrust ) which is inherently smoother and therefore quieter . The 3-blade propeller will generally have a smaller diameter than the 2-blade propeller that it replaces , which also reduces the tip speed and noise .
Accessing hydraulic lines &amp; resevoirs is perfectly straightforward in plenty of aircraft -- the C-130 as one example . With crew chiefs &amp; their tools &amp; spare parts on board , a temp repair on a hydraulic line would be possible . Highly unusual , but possible . Spare fluid is common enough to have on-board to replenish the resevoirs . However , access to the tires ... Nope . I ca n't think of anything where you could do that , and it would have to be a designed-in capability . Typically , crew-accessible areas are pressurized , but where the wheels retract , are n't . You have things like access to unpressurized bomb bays , and in unpressurized aircraft that 's not a barrier , but still ... If there are designs where the crew can access the tires in flight , I 'm not picturing them . As noted elsewhere , landing with a flat tire is n't typically a big deal .
Non-regulatory airspace is <URL> , <URL> , Alert Areas , and Controlled Firing Areas <URL> , <URL> . Other information should be located in the <URL> Ch 3-4 , Special Use Airspace . Specifically 3-4-1 ( c ) Basically non-regulatory areas mean that the FAA does not make regulatory enforcement in those areas due to special ( military ) operations . Usually the non-enforcement is only for participating aircraft , and generally recreational/commercial aircraft would not fall under any non-regulatory rules . For example , in an active MOA with aircraft practicing low-altitude speed runs , the FAA would not enforce the 250 knot speed limit on participating aircraft . This is in the AIM , Ch 3 Section 4 , Part 5 ( b ) Military pilots flying in an active MOA are exampted from the provisions of 14 CFR Section 91.303 ( c ) and ( d ) which prohibits aerobatic flight within Class D and E surface areas and within Federal Airways . Additionally the Department of Defense has been issued an authorization to operate aircraft at indicated airspeeds in excess of 250 knots below 10,000 feet MSL within active MOAs . . For another example , consider warning areas , which are areas extending 3 miles from the coast . Since this area may include international waters ( think of the area between Alaska and Russia ) , the FAA ca n't really regulate operations in all these areas . The US Navy also controls some of these areas and " shares " jurisdiction with the FAA .
The MiG-31 is an all new design with higher strength for low-level flight and new engines . The reason it looks just like the MiG-25 has to do with the structure of the Soviet aviation industry . The basic shape is first defined by the Central Aerodynamic and Hydrodynamic Institute ( <URL> is the abbreviation of its Russian name ) and then given to the design bureaus which do the mechanical design . Production is then relegated to dedicated manufacturers which build the designs of different bureaus in parallel . Both aircraft were designed as interceptors . The main difference is the advanced radar , digital data links and the more powerful engines of the MiG-31 which made a longer fuselage necessary . The MiG-25 radar , a development from the 1960s , could only detect high-flying targets , while the <URL> radar of the MiG-31 can also detect and track low flying aircraft ( <URL> capability ) ; a necessity after NATO changed its strategy to <URL> flying to avoid detection . If you need to tell both apart on pictures , look for these features : While the main landing gear of the MiG-25 has a large , single wheel , the main gear of the MiG-31 uses two smaller wheels in a staggered arrangement . <URL> MiG-31 main landing gear ( picture by Burkhard Domke <URL> ) While most MiG-25 were single seaters , the MiG-31 has two occupants , a pilot and a weapon systems officer behind him . Two-seater versions of the MiG-25 can be easily distinguished because the two cockpits are separate units , the front cockpit replacing the radar . <URL> MiG-31 on the ground with canopies open ( picture <URL> ) The wing root of the MiG-31 has a small strake added while the wing of the MiG-25 is a pure trapeze with a straight leading edge . The picture below shows the MiG-25 in black lines and the MiG-31 overlaid in red . <URL>
end question
start question
What protection does Vno provide ?
In short , VNO does n't provide you any protection , it just tells you that flying that fast puts you in a regime where structural damage will occur before increased load factor will cause a stall -- regardless of weight . For part 23 airplanes that are not turbine powered and VD has not been established , <URL> ( b ) establishes VNO must be established such that it is between VC , min and 0.89 * VNE . Section <URL> defines VC as a multiplying factor of the square root of wing loading at design maximum takeoff weight . For normal and utility category airplanes , VC is design cruising speed and is be between 33 √ ( W/S ) and 0.9 VH where W/S is wing loading at the design maximum takeoff weight . The factor 33 may be scaled as low as 28.6 based on W/S values greater than 20 ( the regs do not provide units on any of these numbers ... ) . VH is the maximum forward airpseed in level flight at maximum continuous power at sea level . Section <URL> also defines VA and the only relation to VC is that VA need not exceed VC . We can see from this information that establishing VNO is a design choice based ultimately upon maximum possible wing loading as a guideline and unlike VA stall speeds are not involved in the calculation . What you can take from this is that VA will vary by weight ( because this affects the stall speed ) but VNO is based upon wing loading at max gross takeoff weight and is constant with actual weight . Flying slower than VA you will stall before causing structural damage . Flying faster than VA you will cause structural damage before stalling the airplane . VNO will be at least the VA or higher . Flying below this speed does n't really tell us anything ( VA is better for that ) , but flying above this speed lets us know the design margins for load factor induced structural damage are such that we do n't want bumps or abrupt control deflections because we can damage the airplane . Regulation excerpts . § 23.1505 Airspeed limitations . ( b ) The maximum structural cruising speed VNO must be established so that it is -- ( 1 ) Not less than the minimum value of VC allowed under § 23.335 ; and ( 2 ) Not more than the lesser of -- ( i ) VC established under § 23.335 ; or ( ii ) 0.89 VNE established under paragraph ( a ) of this section . ( c ) ( 1 ) Paragraphs ( a ) and ( b ) of this section do not apply to turbine airplanes or to airplanes for which a design diving speed VD/MD is established under § 23.335 ( b ) ( 4 ) . For those airplanes , a maximum operating limit speed ( VMO/MMO airspeed or Mach number , whichever is critical at a particular altitude ) must be established as a speed that may not be deliberately exceeded in any regime of flight ( climb , cruise , or descent ) unless a higher speed is authorized for flight test or pilot training operations . § 23.335 Design airspeeds . Except as provided in paragraph ( a ) ( 4 ) of this section , the selected design airspeeds are equivalent airspeeds ( EAS ) . ( a ) Design cruising speed , VC . For VC the following apply : ( 1 ) Where W/S ′ = wing loading at the design maximum takeoff weight , Vc ( in knots ) may not be less than -- ( i ) 33 √ ( W/S ) ( for normal , utility , and commuter category airplanes ) ; ( ii ) 36 √ ( W/S ) ( for acrobatic category airplanes ) . ( 2 ) For values of W/S more than 20 , the multiplying factors may be decreased linearly with W/S to a value of 28.6 where W/S = 100 . ( 3 ) VC need not be more than 0.9 VH at sea level . ( c ) Design maneuvering speed VA. . For VA , the following applies : ( 1 ) VA may not be less than VS √ n where -- ( i ) VS is a computed stalling speed with flaps retracted at the design weight , normally based on the maximum airplane normal force coefficients , CNA ; and ( ii ) n is the limit maneuvering load factor used in design ( 2 ) The value of VA need not exceed the value of VC used in design .
TCAS works by sending interrogations to other aircraft 's transponders . The transponder will reply to the interrogation in a similar way it responds to radar . From the time difference between the interrogation and the reply , the distance to the other aircraft is calculated . The reply itself contains the altitude of the other aircraft . The explanation below gives an insight in the basic working of the TCAS algorithm . In reality it is more complex to deal with all kinds of exceptional situations . The distance and the altitude difference with the other aircraft is tracked to identify a trend . From successive distance measurements the closure rate is determined . With the closure rate and the current distance ( slant range ) an approximation is made of the time to the closest point of approach ( CPA ) . This is done by simply dividing the range by the closure rate , the result is called ' range tau ' . The same is done in the vertical plane . Dividing the difference in altitude by the vertical speed difference leads to the vertical tau . If both tau 's are less than certain threshold , a Traffic Alert ( TA ) is raised . When the tau 's are less that another ( lower ) threshold , a Resolution Advisory is given . The TA is a ' heads up ' indication , the RA is an instruction that must be followed by the pilot to reduce the collision risk . The threshold times depend on the altitude , ranging from 20 seconds ( < 1000 ft AGL ) to 48 seconds ( > FL200 ) for TA 's and from 15 seconds ( < 2350 ft ) to 35 seconds ( > FL200 ) for RA 's . Below 1000 ft AGL , RA 's are inhibited . Originally TCAS did only give Traffic Advisories in the form of a " Traffic , traffic " annunciation . There was no avoiding action indicated . With the introduction of TCAS II in the second half of the '80s the Resolution Advisory made its entrance . RA selection In selecting a resolution advisory , there are two basically two steps . The first step is to select a sense , either upward or downward . This is based on a calculation of how much altitude difference can be achieved at the CPA by either starting a climb or descent , assuming the target will maintain its vertical rate . In the calculation the reaction time of the crew and acceleration and climb / descent rate of the aircraft is assumed ( 5 seconds , 0.25 g , 1500 fpm ) . The second step is to select a magnitude . The algorithm is designed to be the least disruptive to the flight path , whilst still achieving a minimum vertical separation . RA coordination When a RA is selected , it is transmitted to the other aircraft . When the other aircraft receives that message , it will only use the opposite sense for its own RA . In the rare case that both aircraft transmit their RA intent at the same time , the aircraft with the higher Mode S address will give in and reverse its RA sense if it is conflicting with the other . Algorithm versions Over the years various improvements are made to TCAS II . The initial TCAS II systems had version 6.0 of the algorithm , later replaced by 6.04 a in the mid 90 's . Further system evaluation lead to the development of version 7.0 , implemented from 1999 . Following a near mid-air collision in Japan in 2001 and a mid-air collision over Uberlingen , Germany further changes were made leading to version 7.1 . Changes that were made include : the wording of the RA 's logic to limit the vertical path deviations logic to prevent nuisance alerts in RVSM airspace and on closely spaced parallel runway operations logic to detect non-compliance to an RA improved RA sense reversal logic TCAS &amp; ATC TCAS RA 's take precedence of ATC instructions . The fact that one of the two aircraft followed ATC instructions , and the other TCAS RA 's contributed to the Uberlingen accident . In case a pilot is getting a TCAS RA he should notify ATC . ========== The FAA has produced an <URL> which provided some interesting reading on the topic .
On some . The Fokker 100 is one , where the aeroforces on the elevator are directly fed back to the pilot . There is a hydraulic actuator helping him , but contrary to the usual solution it is a reversible system where the hydraulics merely amplifies the direct force that the pilot exerts . The F100 has manual reversion for elevators and ailerons , and it can still be flown reasonable comfortably without hydraulics . The 737 also has manual reversion , but the flight controls are quite heavy without hydraulics - it is about the largest high-subsonic aircraft that can still be hand-flown . Larger planes just have triple redundant hydraulic controls , some with q-feel which artificially replicates the higher air stiffness felt at higher airspeeds . No romantic gusty creaking for those aircraft in a museum .
( Note : This answer is tailored to the U.S. / FAA , because that is what I 'm familiar with . All the citations and references are FAA materials . If anyone has any tips on possible international differences , please let me know and I 'll edit them in . That said , I believe the descriptions I give are fairly consistent across the world , even if the FAA reg citations do n't directly apply . ) In what situations does ATC ask for ident , and is it ever required by procedure ? Generally , " ident " is used to help a controller identify an aircraft 's secondary radar ( transponder ) return . By asking the pilot to " squawk ident , " the controller can ensure that the aircraft he/she is talking to matches the radar target he thinks is that aircraft . It can also be used for communication , to allow a pilot to respond if their radio transmitter has failed . Specifically : It is a method to allow a controller to identify an aircraft on radar , per section 5-3-3 of <URL> : When using only Mode 3/A radar beacon to identify a target , use one of the following methods : a. Request the aircraft to activate the " IDENT " feature of the transponder and then observe the identification display . For lost communication , per section 10-4-4 of <URL> : Take the following actions , as appropriate , if two-way radio communications are lost with an aircraft : c. Attempt to re-establish communication by having the aircraft use its transponder or make turns to acknowledge clearances and answer questions . Request any of the following in using the transponder : 1 . Request the aircraft to reply Mode 3/A " IDENT . " This last scenario is common when experiencing radio failures . If ATC suspects that you might be able to hear them but not to talk back , they might say something like " Cessna 12345 , if you can hear me , squawk ident . " If you reply by pressing the IDENT button , they can then issue you further instructions and ask you to acknowledge those instructions by pressing IDENT again . What does the transponder actually do in this mode ? In normal operation , every time the transponder receives an interrogation from a ground station , it replies with a data block containing certain pieces of information . <URL> : The encoded pressure altitude ( for Mode C transponders ) A 12-bit identification code ( this is the 4-digit code you select in the cockpit ) A single extra bit for the " ident " flag When you push the IDENT button in the cockpit , the transponder sets that extra " ident " bit in its reply data . Anytime the transponder is interrogated while IDENT is active ( for a set duration of time after you press the button in the cockpit ) , its reply data block will have the IDENT bit set . ATC computer systems notice this and cause the IDENT to be shown on the controller 's radar display . What does the controller see on their screen ? It depends on the type of radar system in use . Generally the radar target will either blink , its symbol will change ( or " blossom " ) , or an indication such as " ID " will blink in the aircraft 's data block ( where the callsign is shown ) . The AIM has some schematic pictures that show what an IDENT looks like on an ARTS-III scope ( an older system still in use at some TRACONs ) . See <URL> and <URL> . I will try to find some pictures of other radar systems such as those used at ARTCCs and newer TRACONs . Does it depend at all on either the code or the mode the transponder is currently set for ? The code does n't matter . The IDENT flag is an extra bit in the transponder 's reply data that 's independent of the 12 bits used for the code . Obviously the IDENT will only be observed if the transponder is operating ( not OFF or in a STANDBY mode ) . But the IDENT works in any mode used by normal civilian transponders ( Modes A , C or S ) .
This answer details the procedures used in the US . Other countries will be similar , possibly with different names for some positions . When preparing for a flight , after their flight plan has been filed , the pilots will first talk to the clearance delivery controller . This controller clears their planned route and altitude . At larger airports this may be done via text rather than voice . The pilots may also call their company dispatch to get the route or fix any problems . If there are significant delays in effect at the airport , the pilots may have to talk to the metering controller . This controller is responsible for holding aircraft at their gates . Weather at departure or arrival airports may reduce the number of aircraft the airport can handle . There is no sense in sending the aircraft onto the busy taxiways if they will just have to sit there and wait for weather or traffic before they can depart . The metering controller will eventually hand the pilots off to the next controller when the aircraft is finally cleared for departure . Again at larger airports , the next contact will be with the ramp controller . This controller is responsible for a ramp area near the terminals . The controller will let the pilots know when it 's safe to push back , and which way they should turn at the end of the push back . After starting their engines , the pilots will receive instructions for exiting the ramp . Once pilots reach the edge of the ramp area , they will call the ground controller . This controller is responsible for managing traffic on most of the taxiways . The pilots will receive instructions for taxiing to their departure runway . If this route takes them across an active runway , the ground controller will have to clear this with the tower controller , or possibly have the pilots switch to the tower controller for permission to cross the runway . At small airports , the ground controller handles all of the previous positions as well . Upon reaching their departure runway , the pilots will switch to the tower controller . The tower controller is responsible for the active runways . Busy airports may have multiple tower controllers managing different runways . The tower will clear the pilots for takeoff , ensuring proper separation between any other arriving/departing aircraft . Shortly after the aircraft starts climbing , the tower will hand the pilots off to the departure controller . Depending on the location and traffic levels , this could be the same controller and frequency as the approach controller . This position is part of the <URL> ( Terminal Radar Approach Control ) facility . High traffic areas will have their own separate TRACON facility , while in lower traffic areas this will be combined with a tower location . In other countries this is referred to as the Terminal Control Center ( TCC ) . The approach controller 's responsibility is routing aircraft leaving airports in the area to avoid conflicts between aircraft , but often the pilots will just fly the published departure procedure . The departure controller receives reports of weather such as precipitation or icing and passes this on to other aircraft . Upon reaching a certain altitude , the departure will hand the pilots over to the center controller . This position is part of an <URL> ( Air Route Traffic Control Center ) , often abbreviated to " center " . The US has <URL> , each further divided into different sectors . Sectors are consolidated between controllers depending on traffic levels . Other countries refer to this as an Area Control Center ( ACC ) . The center controller is responsible for traffic at higher altitudes , primarily enroute traffic . The aircraft may pass through multiple centers , and each center may have different sectors controlled by different controllers . The pilots will be handed off between these controllers . Pilots must request altitude or course changes ( for efficiency or weather reasons ) , and controllers may issue changes for traffic reasons . Controllers also handle pilot reports of conditions such as turbulence . If the flight is crossing <URL> , the flight may be handed over to an oceanic controller . These controllers do not always have radar coverage of the aircraft they are controlling . They rely on the aircraft following their published routes and altitudes , and providing regular position reports . The lack of radar means there are also more strict rules about deviations from flight plans . As the pilots get closer to their destination , they will start on their arrival procedure . This usually specifies altitudes and possibly speeds , so the pilots will need to plan when to start their descent in order to meet these restrictions . The center controller will know the procedure and instruct them to follow it , and possibly issue deviations as traffic requires . At some point before arriving , the pilots may also contact their company at the arrival airport . They may need to coordinate passenger needs such as wheelchairs or medical/security issues , or commu
Versalog already told the core of the thing . Most prop aircraft which are approved for flights into known icing conditions have such boots to remove the ice from the wings leading edge . Those boots are either inflated manually whenever you need them ( by the press of a button of course ) , at regular intervals or automatically whenever ice is detected . Check this picture , the black thing is the boot on a Dash 8 's wing : <URL> <URL>
In short , VNO does n't provide you any protection , it just tells you that flying that fast puts you in a regime where structural damage will occur before increased load factor will cause a stall -- regardless of weight . For part 23 airplanes that are not turbine powered and VD has not been established , <URL> ( b ) establishes VNO must be established such that it is between VC , min and 0.89 * VNE . Section <URL> defines VC as a multiplying factor of the square root of wing loading at design maximum takeoff weight . For normal and utility category airplanes , VC is design cruising speed and is be between 33 √ ( W/S ) and 0.9 VH where W/S is wing loading at the design maximum takeoff weight . The factor 33 may be scaled as low as 28.6 based on W/S values greater than 20 ( the regs do not provide units on any of these numbers ... ) . VH is the maximum forward airpseed in level flight at maximum continuous power at sea level . Section <URL> also defines VA and the only relation to VC is that VA need not exceed VC . We can see from this information that establishing VNO is a design choice based ultimately upon maximum possible wing loading as a guideline and unlike VA stall speeds are not involved in the calculation . What you can take from this is that VA will vary by weight ( because this affects the stall speed ) but VNO is based upon wing loading at max gross takeoff weight and is constant with actual weight . Flying slower than VA you will stall before causing structural damage . Flying faster than VA you will cause structural damage before stalling the airplane . VNO will be at least the VA or higher . Flying below this speed does n't really tell us anything ( VA is better for that ) , but flying above this speed lets us know the design margins for load factor induced structural damage are such that we do n't want bumps or abrupt control deflections because we can damage the airplane . Regulation excerpts . § 23.1505 Airspeed limitations . ( b ) The maximum structural cruising speed VNO must be established so that it is -- ( 1 ) Not less than the minimum value of VC allowed under § 23.335 ; and ( 2 ) Not more than the lesser of -- ( i ) VC established under § 23.335 ; or ( ii ) 0.89 VNE established under paragraph ( a ) of this section . ( c ) ( 1 ) Paragraphs ( a ) and ( b ) of this section do not apply to turbine airplanes or to airplanes for which a design diving speed VD/MD is established under § 23.335 ( b ) ( 4 ) . For those airplanes , a maximum operating limit speed ( VMO/MMO airspeed or Mach number , whichever is critical at a particular altitude ) must be established as a speed that may not be deliberately exceeded in any regime of flight ( climb , cruise , or descent ) unless a higher speed is authorized for flight test or pilot training operations . § 23.335 Design airspeeds . Except as provided in paragraph ( a ) ( 4 ) of this section , the selected design airspeeds are equivalent airspeeds ( EAS ) . ( a ) Design cruising speed , VC . For VC the following apply : ( 1 ) Where W/S ′ = wing loading at the design maximum takeoff weight , Vc ( in knots ) may not be less than -- ( i ) 33 √ ( W/S ) ( for normal , utility , and commuter category airplanes ) ; ( ii ) 36 √ ( W/S ) ( for acrobatic category airplanes ) . ( 2 ) For values of W/S more than 20 , the multiplying factors may be decreased linearly with W/S to a value of 28.6 where W/S = 100 . ( 3 ) VC need not be more than 0.9 VH at sea level . ( c ) Design maneuvering speed VA. . For VA , the following applies : ( 1 ) VA may not be less than VS √ n where -- ( i ) VS is a computed stalling speed with flaps retracted at the design weight , normally based on the maximum airplane normal force coefficients , CNA ; and ( ii ) n is the limit maneuvering load factor used in design ( 2 ) The value of VA need not exceed the value of VC used in design .
I spoke to my friend at the one of the ME3 carriers . She tried to find any information regarding this matter but was not able to find it . However during your recruitment process you have to perform a personality test and based on this test you are placed in one of the total of 7 groups . During the scheduling they combine people from different groups so that there is a balanced and workable crew on board . Say that you 're in group 5 , then you will for example mostly work with people that are in group 1 and 3 . Questions on this personality test are like : Would you rather ( example : clean a room or work within a group ) Which statements best describes you ? ( leader , selfish , friendly , etc , etc ) These airlines are run on performance optimization and care less about human values .
Alpha is also called " Angle of Attack " . It is the angle between the relative wind and the chord line of the wing . When the angle of attack is increased to a certain point , the airflow over the wing is no longer smooth . Turbulence is created after the wing , and it loses lift . This is known as a <URL> . " Alpha protection " is a system which prevents the angle of attack from getting too high . This is done by software monitoring the plane 's angle of attack sensor . When a high alpha situation is detected , the software lowers the nose of the plane to maintain high but still safe angle of attack . It also commands full thrust to all engines . This system is designed to prevent pilots from stalling the aircraft and to allow them to get the best possible performance in emergency e.g. in a wind-shear . This is not part of the autopilot . It is integrated into the flight control computer and activated at all times . Autopilot are functions which fly the plane in a certain way to reduce the pilot 's workload in normal situations ( e.g. climb to 13,000 feet , turn left to heading 340 ) . Pilots can opt to turn off such protection systems should it malfunction , or a very special occasion exists where these protections should be switched off , such as performing at an airshow . Notable Accidents In the Airbus , the A320 was the first " fly-by-wire " aircraft . During a demonstration flight <URL> when showing off the alpha-protection system the pilots took the airplane too low and too slow and disabled the part of the system that should have commanded full thrust . The plane did n't stall but was having too little energy to climb anyway . It crashed gently into the trees . In an <URL> , the pilots were testing the alpha-protection at low altitude . The system should have prevented the plane from pitching too high . However , to the surprise of the crew , it failed . The plane stalled with insufficient altitude to recover . The system did not work because water got into the angle-of-attack probes during previous improper washing procedure , froze during the flight and blocked the probes . In <URL> , the system switched to " alternate law " and no longer provided stall protection , because the pitot tubes ( airspeed sensors ) froze over . The plane stalled from 38,000 feet to the water after the pilots failed to apply correct procedure for unreliable airspeed .
It means you 've been allocated a block altitude - you can fly whatever altitude you want between 7000 ft and 8000 ft. Typically this would be something you 'd request , e.g. to practice unusual attitude recovery or to avoid having to hold a hard altitude in mountain wave . It 's unusual for ATC to volunteer a block altitude without the pilot asking for it , but maybe if previous aircraft along the same route reported difficulty maintaining altitude then ATC might offer it to you unprompted .
Inertial Navigation Systems , unlike other navigation systems , do not depend on external ( radio ) measurements . Instead an INS keeps track of its position by accurately measuring acceleration ( accelerometers ) and rotation ( gyroscopes ) . It therefore works in remote areas where there are no ground based navaids available . Initially , the INS gets its position from pilot input at the gate , or in more recent systems from GPS , sometimes even during flight . By measuring all the accelerations and rotations and integrating them into speed and direction the position is tracked . In doing this , the INS has to correct for the rotation of the earth and the related Coriolis force . Due to small inaccuracies in the measurements the velocity error and , with that , the position errors grow over time . <URL> has quite a detailed article about the history and working of the INS . While raw INS position has mainly been replaced by GPS measurements on oceanic flights , the system is not being phased out . GPS is a sensitive systems and by crosschecking it with INS , errors can be detected in both systems . It is often used as a backup to GPS . Integrated GPS / INS systems provide better systems integrity and allow the navigation system to coast through short GPS outages with high accuracies . In addition to that , the ( laser ) gyroscopes of the INS are often used to provide data to the digital artificial horizon displays in the cockpit and to the auto flight systems . In this case the term Inertial Reference Unit ( IRU ) is used , which acts as a basis for the INS .
If the airport you 're based at has federal grant obligations ( basically if they 've taken money from the <URL> ) then being a " flying club " by the FAA 's definition entitles you ( as a group ) to the same rights as any other operator at the field ( like the right to fuel your aircraft with fuel you buy yourself &amp; have trucked in , or the right to do maintenance on the aircraft ) , subject to the same rules and regulations the airport lays down for all operators . The biggest material difference is that " flying clubs " are n't considered to be " commercial " ventures by the FAA ( and by extension grant-obligted airports ) . As an example , let 's say you have a flying club &amp; you " charge " $ 50/hr for the use of one of the planes , and your airport management decides that since you 're charging money for the use of the planes you 're a commercial venture , and need to have commercial insurance and the like . If you meet the FAA definition of a " Flying Club " and the airport has federal grant obligations you can ask your local FSDO to step in and effectively tell the airport management to get stuffed - as a flying club you 're treated more like an individual than a commercial business , and the airport is not allowed to impose those commercial requirements on you . If you do n't meet that definition the FAA wo n't intervene on your behalf ( as far as they 're concerned you are a rental outfit / commercial FBO at that point and the airport is correct in treating you as one ) . Note that you can still call yourself a " flying club " even if you do n't meet the FAA 's definition -- I belong to a flying club that has no aircraft ( we 're just a bunch of folks who like to talk about flying and organize the occasional fly-out event or safety seminar - some of us own planes , and some rent from local FBOs ) , and it does n't really matter to us that we do n't meet the FAA definition of a flying club because we do n't have any interaction with the airport where that designation would benefit us . If you 're the kind of organization that has aircraft available for the use of your members however it probably makes sense to ensure that you 're organized &amp; run in such a way as to meet the FAA definition of a flying club .
For runways built , refurbished or repainted after January 2008 , the number of bars in the Threshold Markings indicates the width of the runway , as is described in <URL> . Older runways may still use an outdated scheme . Runway threshold markings come in two configurations . They either consist of eight longitudinal stripes of uniform dimensions disposed symmetrically about the runway centerline , as shown in FIG 2-3-1 , or the number of stripes is related to the runway width as indicated in TBL 2-3-2 . A threshold marking helps identify the beginning of the runway that is available for landing . In some instances the landing threshold may be relocated or displaced . <URL> Runway Width | Number of Stripes ================================== 60 feet ( 18 m ) | 4 75 feet ( 23 m ) | 6 100 feet ( 30 m ) | 8 150 feet ( 45 m ) | 12 200 feet ( 60 m ) | 16 With regard to how to tell the difference between Configuration A and B , Advisory <URL> goes into significantly more detail . It states that The threshold markings may have either of the characteristics in ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) below , but after January 1 , 2008 , only those characteristics in ( 2 ) will be acceptable . The details : Configuration A . The runway threshold marking consists of eight longitudinal stripes of uniform dimensions spaced symmetrically about the runway centerline as shown in Figure 1 . The stripes are 150 feet ( 45 m ) long and 12 feet ( 3.6 m ) wide and spaced 3 feet ( 1 m ) apart , except for the center space , which is 16 feet ( 4.8 m ) . For runways less than 150 feet ( 45 m ) in width , the length of the markings is not changed , but the width of the markings , spaces between markings and distance of markings from the runway edge are changed proportionally . For runways greater than 150 feet ( 45m ) in width , the width of the markings and spaces between the markings may be increased proportionally or additional stripes may be added to both sides . The rule for Configuration A markings requires scaling the width of the stripes and their spacings ( and the outboard spacings from the runway edges ) proportionally , keeping the length fixed . For a runway 150 feet wide the Configuration A stripes are 12 ft wide with 3 ft spacings ( and an 8 ft spacing from the inboard stripe to the centreline , leaving 10 ft between the outboard and runway edge ) . The Configuration B stripes are given a fixed width of 5.75 ft with spacings of 5.75 ft also . If a Configuration A scheme were used on a narrow runway such that the stripes were equal to the width of the Configuration B stripes , the runway width would need to be about 72 feet ( 12 ft stripe width for a 150 ft runway width scaled to 5.75 ft for 71.875 ft ) . For a 72 ft wide runway bearing the Configuration A scheme the spacing between stripes would be reduced to slightly less than 1.5 ft. The difference between the schemes therefore ought to be apparent . and Configuration B. For this configuration , the number of stripes required is related to the runway width as indicated in Table 2 . The stripes are 150 feet ( 45 m ) long and 5.75 feet ( 1.75 m ) wide and spaced 5.75 feet ( 1.75 m ) apart except the center space is 11.5 feet ( 3.5 m ) as shown in Figure 1 . The outboard edges of the outboard stripes extend laterally to within 10 feet ( 3 m ) of the edge of a runway or to a distance of 92 feet ( 27 m ) on either side of a runway centerline , whichever results in the smaller lateral distance . This is further borne out by a <URL> which states : The purpose of this CERTALERT is to remind Airport Operators , Airport Certification Safety Inspectors , and Program Managers that paragraph 9 ( d ) states the threshold markings may have either the characteristics in ( 1 ) Configuration A or ( 2 ) Configuration B , but after January 1 , 2008 , only those characteristics in ( 2 ) Configuration B will be acceptable .
The ' Y ' in YF stands for prototype according to the <URL> . The ' F ' stands for fighter , so YF stands for prototype-Fighter . These aircraft are operated by the US Department of Defense ( USAF or USN ) . For example , <URL> is the prototype ( technology demonstrator ) version of the <URL> . The <URL> is the name given for strictly experimental aircraft ; i.e. they are not prototypes .
Short Answer In straight and level flight , it means do n't push over too fast . Doing so gets you " light in the seat " and things may fly about the cockpit/cabin . In some aircraft , negative " g " can make the oil " flow up " away from the sump and begin to starve your engine of much needed lubrication . ( Example : T-34C , trainer , limited to 10 seconds inverted flight . Straight and Level inverted flight is -1 " g. " ) More Answer You want to avoid flying with negative " g " in a variety of circumstances , depending upon how the aircraft is designed . Example : In a helicopter , negative " g " can have dire consequences . On the teetering , semi rigid rotor heads in the original Huey , for example , unloading the head can lead to mast bumping , which can lead to catastrophic failure of the mast , and then some death . Counter Example : Flying a Pitts Special , or an F-18 , the aircraft is built to withstand some negative " g " due to their needing to fly particular maneuvers . " G " is a natural part of flying , but " how much " varies with design . Whenever you turn the aircraft , you will add a little bit of " g " load since " g " is a measure of acceleration . Vector sums based on angle of bank will tell you how much " g " you can expect in a level turn at constant speed . Example : a 60 degree angle of bank adds an additional " g " compared to level flight , and you feel a bit of a push into your seat .
It comes from <URL> for morse communication . They where set up without a clear rhyme or reason that I can see besides being ordered alphabetically .
Lets cover your specific questions first . Let 's say someone has a helicopter license and wants to get their private pilot ? Do they have to take a knowledge test ? ( it appears I was initially incorrect and the knowledge test does not need to be <URL> below ) <URL> you do n't need to retake the knowledge test ( b ) Additional aircraft category rating . A person who applies to add a category rating to a pilot certificate : ( 1 ) Must complete the training and have the applicable aeronautical experience . ( 2 ) Must have a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized instructor attesting that the person was found competent in the appropriate aeronautical knowledge areas and proficient in the appropriate areas of operation . ( 3 ) Must pass the practical test . ( 4 ) Need not take an additional knowledge test , provided the applicant holds an airplane , rotorcraft , powered-lift , weight-shift-control aircraft , powered parachute , or airship rating at that pilot certificate level . The FAR 's pretty much cover all the the various cases however they can be a bit confusing . What if someone is a sports pilot and wants to upgrade to a private pilot , what do they have to do ? How do you figure it out ? In terms of endorsements you must obtain an endorsement for what ever it is you are going to do ( exam , practical test , etc. ) even if you have a license in another class or category . For example if you are going to take the PPL check ride you need an endorsement for that check ride ( even if you have a sport pilots license ) . Now when it comes to training things may differ . Your training for a PPL will obviously be shorter if you have a sport pilots license but you will still be required to take the Private Pilots Single Engine Land written test and practical test and receive endorsements to do so , to get a PPL . This site covers the <URL> nicely . If you are transitioning from sport to private I would imagine you may be able to complete all the requirements for a PPL without having received the student solo endorsement since you could in theory have accomplished all your solo flight requirements as a sport pilot . Personal Note : Its always a good idea to speak with your DPE before taking any practical test and ask what endorsements he is expecting to see in your log book ( which should be the ones that are required and no more ( or less for that matter ) ) . When I went for my check ride the wording for the PPL practical endorsement had changed recently and he warned me that many instructors mess up the wording or the pre printed ones in the log book are out of date and it can be an issue . I had my instructor add the necessary line before I went for my check ride .
Attitude is orientation in space , that is the value of three angles : heading or yaw ( around the yaw axis ) pitch ( around the lateral axis ) roll or bank ( around the longitudinal axis ) . <URL> <URL> . In some strict definitions , the attitude of an aircraft is only pitch and roll , that is an orientation related to the horizon . But for applications that compute attitude , the yaw angle is also included . Its reference -- e.g. geographic North , or magnetic North -- must be specified . Attitude can be quantified as a <URL> or a matrix of angles , usually <URL> ( actually Tait -- Bryan 's angles ) . Attitude can be visualized using an attitude indicator or artificial horizon for roll and pitch , and an horizontal situation indicator or directional gyro for yaw : <URL> <URL> . Both can be combined into a single instrument , this is often the case for head up displays : <URL> <URL> . No translation is involved . Attitude can be understood as a shortcut for attitude of flight . In aerospace , the craft motion would be described in the horizontal plane ( horizontal route ) and vertical plane ( altitude profile ) .
Windsocks come in various sizes and speeds , but an FAA Standard Wind Sock aligns with the wind at 3 knots , and is fully extended at 15 knots <URL> . A typical wind sock ( at least around here ) looks something like this : The stripes are actually useful : The first stripe indicates a 3-knot breeze ( The wind sock has turned and aligned with the wind - usually you should look for an anemometer near the wind sock to determine if there 's any appreciable wind because often the first segment is held open by the frame . ) The second stripe is ~ 6 knots The third stripe is ~ 9 knots The fourth stripe is ~ 12 knots The last stripe is 15 knots or higher If the windsock is missing you probably should n't be at the airport . If the pole is missing you 're probably on your way to Oz . ( You can actually get a far more precise estimation if you 're willing to do some trigonometry , but this works well enough for most purposes . )
A long product cycle means that the lifecycle of a product spans a long time . Aircraft models are often produced for more than 30 years ( the 737 and 747 are now approximately 50 years in production ) . At the same time , the capital expenses to build a production line are enormous . And in starting up a production line there are always teething troubles which take time and money to iron out . Therefore it would be a waste of capital to move a production line from the UK to mainland EU . That only is viable when a new aircraft model is introduced and an old model is phased out . New models do n't appear every year and it seems that most of the current models are still selling well so unless there will be a huge cost associated with keeping the production line in the UK ( e.g. taxes , increasing labour cost , unfavourable exchange rate ) no changes are to be expected soon .
end question
start question
How do pilots identify the taxi path to the runway ?
Guiding is called <URL> and can be requested . A follow-me car can also be used to guide the plane . In some airports the follow-me car is <URL> , as well as its fees . By Frank Schwichtenberg ( Own work ) [ <URL> ] , <URL> In most cases the pilots use charts . Either paper or electronic . Some electronic charts offer a moving map feature , whereby the crew can see their position on the map . Lastly , there 's the new follow-the-greens ( <URL> ) method , in which the ATC programs the taxi route and the crew are then guided by smart green lights . Follow-the-greens cockpit video / ATC audio in Singapore Changi can be <URL> . In all cases , except for follow-the-greens , the route is given . Runway [ number ] , taxi via [ route ] . ( USA . ) Taxi to holding point [ number ] runway [ number ] via [ route ] . ( Europe and elsewhere . ) It 's worth mentioning that the taxiways are marked by <URL> as well . By Bin im Garten ( Own work ) [ <URL> ] , <URL>
You can find this information in the Airport Facility Directory which is published in print by the FAA and is available <URL> . REIL will be listed for the specific runway for the airport in question . For example I fly out of KDYL and if we take a look at the page in the AFD for KDYL you will see REIL listed for RWY 23 <URL> ( <URL> )
Well in regard to " How are these situations resolved ? " you 've already answered your own question in a way : the intended recipient responds with something like <URL> or " Calling center , say again . " ( If they are expecting to hear from a specific aircraft they 'll often respond with " N12345 , say again . " , and if the frequency congestion is really bad controllers may add " All other aircraft standby " ) . As kevin42 pointed out this is very similar to what digital <URL> systems do - they detect a collision ( " Blocked " ) , wait a while , and try their transmission again . As a practical matter , two-way voice communication over the radio is possible , but difficult : for example a discrete " uplink " and " downlink " frequency as you have with some radio systems would be impractical in the sort of mesh topology that you have with aviation radio ( you could implement it for a single air-to-ground pair trivially , but aviation radios are also used for air-to-air communication , and it 's important that pilots hear what 's going on as this enables them to build a mental picture of the airspace , as well as ensure that they 're not blocking other pilot 's transmissions ) . Regarding analog-vs-digital , the traditional AM radio used in aircraft has one major advantage over its digital counterparts : when two digital signals overlap the result is garbage -- you ca n't recover any of the information . When two analog AM signals overlap you get heterodyning ( the two signals mix , and your receiver pipes that mix into your ears ) . The resulting mixed signal sounds AWFUL , there 's an ear-bleeding squeal from the out-of-phase carriers and the voice modulations combine to a garbled mess much of the time , but with experience you can usually pick out one of the communications ( particularly if you 're close to one of the transmitters , where it will overpower the more distant signal ) . The ability to step on a transmission as described above this can be useful : Instructions have been issued over a " stuck mic " before to get other aircraft off the frequency . In a similar vein , if you have an emergency you probably are n't going to listen before you talk - you 're going to key the mic with your mayday and even if the controller misses half of what you 're saying under the heterodyne noise they 'll know there 's an emergency when they hear the other half of your transmission and tell everyone else to standby while they talk to you . In both of those situations a digital system implementing CSMA/CD would detect that the frequency was in use and not transmit ( and if were a digital system and transmitted anyway both digital signals would be garbled and unusable ) .
Basically everything that consumes power on an aircraft can potentially cause interference , short-circuits , or otherwise jeopardize the safety of flight and therefore must be switchable . Sometimes the switch is in the form a button , otherwise by a fuse . There are several particular reasons that the transponder can be turned off . If the transponder malfunctions , it may cause interruptions to all ATC surveillance in an area . There have been occurrences in the past that due to a fault the transponder it was basically acting as a radar jammer . In one particular incident it took a while before the aircraft that caused it was identified and after requesting the pilot to switch of the transponder , secondary surveillance was restored . Another reason is that when the aircraft is at the gate , the transponder is switched of to reduce the amount of radio transmissions . 100 aircraft on the surface of a large airport can produce a massive Radio Frequency noise , which negatively affect radar systems . When taxiing , radar replies are useful for aircraft identification , hence the transponder is switched on at push-back or engine start . For an example to see how such requirements are worded in aircraft certification regulations , see rbp 's answer . The focus here and in the media1 on the transponder in relation to hijacks is a red herring . If an aircraft is hijacked , there are way more important things to worry about than an active radar transponder . If hijackers turn off the transponder it means that they have access to the cockpit already . 1This answer was written shortly after flight <URL> went missing while en-route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing . Initial speculation focussed on a possible hijack scenario .
I 've just arrived back home after being in the US for some months . I was required to have a FAA class 3 medical , because I did some flight training there , and luckily the one I 've received is also is a student pilot certificate with the number on it you require to register for DUAT . Some of my colleges did n't have this number and so they were not able to register until getting there FAA pilot certificate . This will be send to your home adress , most probably when you are home again . In the US you 'll only get a temporary certificate ( peace of paper ) . The only number you 'll find on it is your current license number . Now what you can try : One of my colleges simply wrote an e-mail to duats helpdesk where he described his situation , giving all the information they require on their registration page with his foreign license number and attached a photography of his license and a proof that he 'll be in the us for the next months . Less than 24 hours later he had a log-in . We had a student Visa , but if you do n't have something like this , just try it without it , or take a photography of something else looking trustworthy . Good luck and enjoy your trip ! Edit : I was just looking for the e-mail address , but for any reason my browser refuses to load duats website . As far as I remember , you 'll find it at the registration page . If someonewho can access the website likes to add the e-mail adress please feel free to do so , I would appreciate your help .
In my experience it is not " common " for air carrier aircraft to taxi with an engine shut down . It does happen of course , but there is generally a specific reason behind that procedure if used . Reasons may be : Fuel load is close to the minimum required for the flight at the start of taxi ( a variety of reasons for this ) . Long line up on the taxiway awaiting takeoff clearance . Captain discretion to save fuel . For most Air Carriers , the engines are started using air pressure from an APU ( auxiliary power unit ) affixed to the fuselage ( at the tail of the aircraft ) . The start procedures are initiated while the aircraft is being pushed back from the gate by a tug . Shortly after the aircraft is pushed back and generally aligned for taxi both engines ( twin engine aircraft in this example ) have been started and an " after start " ( or similar ) checklist has been completed . Besides the engine noise , which is sometimes quite low and hard to hear , the end of the start procedure can be noticed when the lights blink in the cabin as the electrical power generated by the APU is being replaced by the engine driven generators . Also , there is generally an increased airflow into the cabin as air from the engines is vented to the cabin by the air conditioning system . Very little air is available during engine start from the APU because the air is being used to start the engines . Anyway , this is probably a more expansive explanation than necessary for your question ( I just wanted to give some context to the process of engine start for air carrier jet aircraft ) . If the aircraft is taxied out using a single engine , the crew can either start the remaining engine at some point prior to takeoff using the APU ( if left operating ) or by cross-bleeding the engine air from the running engine to the engine now being started . If the aircraft is taxied with one of its engines not started at the gate , the crew has to run an additional checklist during the taxi as and after the engine is started . Not a big deal , but a bit more workload . Lastly , there have been occasions where problems have resulted from taxiing with one of the engines not started . For example , many years ago a B727 ( 3 engine aircraft ) started its takeoff roll with only two engines running because the crew failed to start the third engine . It crashed on takeoff . Also , there have been occasions where the aircraft was not configured properly for take off ( e.g. , engine bleed switches in the wrong position ) due to a failure to properly follow/run the appropriate checklist for starting an engine during taxi or configuring the bleed/pressurization system properly for take off . Again , taxiing with an engine not yet started does happen . But considering how many flights occur every day in the world it would be difficult to say this procedure would be anything close to common . Just my two-cents
Using TLAR ( That Looks About Right ) . Pilot turns off a runway onto a taxiway spur and sees the runway safety area lines and just estimates a point beyond roughly equal to or greater than the length of the fuselage and places the cockpit over that point . Other methods include geo-referenced airport diagrams on a moving map display showing the position of the aircraft .
Path/slope visual indicators are usually located on the left side of the runway ( as seen when approaching ) , but may be on the right side when impractical . Good reasons for moving the aid on the right side : Obstacle clearance , terrain , intersecting runways or taxiways . Interference may occur on the left side , between PAPI lights and nearby lights . This is emphasized in FAA <URL> : " Because PAPI system is dependent upon the pilot seeing a red and/or white signal from the light units , care should be taken to assure that no other lights are located close enough to the system to interfere with the signal presentation . " Installing them on both sides is beyond ICAO recommendations and FAA orders , but can be done : For visibility improvement In order to give better roll guidance Some countries do n't implement ICAO rules the same way , for instance in the UK , PAPI for governmental airports " may be provided on both sides of the runway " ( <URL> ) For airports providing a visual guidance for <URL> operations . The PAPI associated with the steeper approach path may be located on the right side of the runway ( <URL> ) . <URL> PAPI at the usual location , on the left side of the runway ( <URL> ) . From <URL> : The international standard for PAPI is published by the International Civil Aviation Organisation ( ICAO ) in Aerodromes , Annex 14 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation , Volume 1 , Chapter 5 . National regulations generally adopt the standards and recommended practices published by ICAO . From <URL> : The basic PAPI configuration is described in chapter 1 , section 2 , paragraph 16 , and is shown in figure 5-1 . All lamphousing assemblies ( LHA 's ) should be located on the left side of the runway , as viewed from the approach direction . However , where terrain , cross runways , or taxiways make this arrangement impractical , the light units may be located on the right side of the runway . [ ... ] The VISUAL APPROACH SLOPE INDICATOR ( VASI ) system is no longer installed by the FAA as a new facility . Specific details and installation criteria have been moved to Appendix E to provide technical support for existing VASI equipment and facilities . [ ... ] The basic VASI configurations are described in appendix D , section 1 , paragraph 1 and shown in figures 1 , 2 , 4 , and 5 . All boxes ( or light units ) of the two-box ; four-box , and six-box configurations are located on the left side of the runway ( as viewed from the approach direction ) . However , where terrain or cross runways , etc. , make this impractical , they may be located on the right side of the runway . <URL> offer several location variations , chosen for practical reasons . There is a PAPI on the left side for runway 1C and <URL> , but a reverse scheme is used for 1R/19L , and 1L/19R is just standard : <URL>
The Airport/Facility Directory ( AFD ) has that info . It lists the Traffic Pattern Altitude ( TPA ) in both MSL and AGL , as well as circuit direction . QFE is not used in the US . So yes , you have to make the correction for field elevation . For example , an airport at 1200 MSL would have a pattern altitude of 2200 ft. ( 1000 AGL for props . 1500 AGL for Jets ) and would be flown using that altitude on the altimeter .
The " anvil " of a Thunderstorm is always on the downwind side . Airline pilots routinely deviate around the upwind side in hopes of a smoother ride . <URL> <URL>
A great site to download airport diagrams and other charts is <URL> . As of April 2015 , however , the site seems gone . Airport diagrams show all the taxiways and ramps , which is what you are looking for . Keep in mind that this is an unofficial website . The charts should not be used for actual navigation .
Aircraft are not always moved with <URL> ( the small vehicle you refer to ) . Much of the time , they operate under their own power . Airliners are generally pushed back from the gate using a tug , as that 's the simplest and most efficient method . They then taxi to the runway ( and all the way up to the gate , after landing ) using their own engines to provide thrust . This is true of both jets and propeller aircraft . Some work is being done on self-contained electric-powered ground propulsion ; one major player in this area is a company called <URL> . They use high-torque motors and the aircraft APU to allow the aircraft to move itself without starting its engines or requiring a tug to be connected and disconnected .
The Boeing chart you reference appears to use for the approach speed column the Vref speed of the aircraft at its max landing weight in the landing configuration . This is the speed you want to be at or close to when you start the landing flare ( the two 747 carriers I flew for used Vref +5 ) . Absent charted speed limits , controller instructions , or company policy , there is no specific distance threshold along the approach path that you can not cross above that speed . The requirement is to be at the proper speed when you enter the landing flare . However , if you were , say , flying the classic stabilized approach , you would be in the landing configuration at this speed from the FAF ( final approach fix ) to the landing flare . The FAF is typically around 5 miles from the runway . Now , insofar as speed stages , the requirement is not one of specific distance points along your approach path ( again absent charted limits , etc. ) , but rather what you have to do speed wise while changing from a clean configuration to the landing configuration . You 're approaching the airport with the gear and flaps up . The critical element speed wise on the approach is the wing configuration . Given the 747-200 speed of 150 kts in that chart , if you slow to that speed with the flaps up , you will stall . The minimum safe speed would be around 80 kts greater than that . Go to flaps 1 ( which really does n't put the trailing edge flaps at 1 degree but rather puts out the leading edge flaps or slats as some call them ) . Once they 're out you can safely slow to Vref +60 . At flaps 5 you can slow to Vref +40 . At flaps 25 you 'll be able to safely slow to the Vref speed in normal operating conditions . Other aircraft have different flap settings and different speeds . The important thing to remember is that you 're changing the shape of the wing to be able to fly more slowly . Where you will be along your approach path when you do this is typically not determined by distance per se , but by time . Do it too soon and you burn more fuel . Do it too late , and the problem becomes one of not being at Vref when you need to be .
The crew of <URL> ( 4 in total ) enter or exit the cockpit from the underside , using a ladder . It can be seen in <URL> . This picture shows the ladder ( the one on the right ) : <URL> On the top of the ladder , there is a door , which looks like this : <URL>
Left , right and centre . For example , Heathrow has 27 left ( 27L ) and right and 09 left ( 09L ) and right . <URL> <URL> Here 's an example for an airfield with a 34 left runway . <URL> If there are more than three runways more or less parallel , one or more runway numbers will be shifted by 10 degrees , e.g. 08L , 08C , 08R , 09R . From <URL> At large airports with four or more parallel runways ( for example , at Los Angeles , Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County , Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta , Denver , Dallas-Fort Worth and Orlando ) some runway identifiers are shifted by 10 degrees to avoid the ambiguity that would result with more than three parallel runways . For example , in Los Angeles , this system results in runways 6L , 6R , 7L , and 7R , even though all four runways are actually parallel ( approximately 69 degrees ) . At Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport , there are five parallel runways , named 17L , 17C , 17R , 18L , and 18R , all oriented at a heading of 175.4 degrees . Occasionally , an airport with only 3 parallel runways may use different runway identifiers , for example when a third parallel runway was opened at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport in 2000 to the south of existing 8R/26L , rather than confusingly becoming the " new " 8R/26L it was instead designated 7R/25L , with the former 8R/26L becoming 7L/25R and 8L/26R becoming 8/26 .
There are three common ways to send a distress signal ( roughly in order of preference ) : Over the radio , to whoever you are currently talking to . Key the microphone and announce to the world , the flight 's callsign , and a description of the emergency . This is generally the way an emergency is declared , particularly for commercial ( airline ) service , as they 're generally always in contact with an ATC facility Over the radio , to anyone monitoring the " emergency " frequency . The VHF frequency 121.5 MHz is reserved for aircraft emergency communication . It is monitored at most air traffic control facilities , as well as by many airliners and other pilots with multiple radios in their aircraft . If you 're not able to make contact with the facility you 're currently talking to in ( 1 ) above ( or if you 're not currently talking to an ATC facility ) . Using the aircraft 's transponder . Three transponder codes are reserved for unusual/emergency situations : for general emergencies for loss of communication ( radio failure ) for hijacking or other unlawful interference All of these transponder codes alter the way the aircraft 's radar target is displayed , to alert the controller to the possible problem ( exactly how the display is modified depends on the radar equipment the controller has , and can range from additional text in the data block , like ( RaDiO Failure ) for code to changing the color of the displayed block on newer systems . <URL> , and more information is available <URL> , though you 'll have to dig through a few referenced documents to put it all together . Note that sometimes the order of preference changes - For example if a pilot is being threatened by a hijacker they may quietly set their transponder code to 7500 without saying anything on the radio to alert the hijacker .
Helicopter wheels do not have power . Taxiing is accomplished by using the thrust from rotors - for example , in case of CH-47 , with rotors at normal rpm , the helicopter will have some forward speed ( 5-6 kt ) with controls at neutral and thrust control rod at ground detent . Steering is usually using pedals ( some helicopters have hydraulic steering ) and there are , of course brakes ( which are used to control taxi using differential braking in some cases ) . As you mentioned CH-47 , it is interesting to know that there are different ways to taxi the helicopter under different conditions . For example , <URL> , Taxiing with two aft gear on the Ground ... Displace the cyclic stick aft approximately 2 inches and increase the thrust till the forward landing gear is off the ground the helicopter begins to move . Maintain directional control with the directional pedals . Control taxi by adjusting the thrust control rod . and Taxiing with power steering ... After the helicopter has started to roll , the thrust control rod should be lowered to the ground detent . This amount of thrust and braking will maintain a moderate taxi speed . ... Turns are initiated by slowly rotating the control knob a small amount and then gradually increasing the knob rotation until the desired turn is reached . There are separate procedures for hover taxiing and water taxiing , though they do n't make use of wheels .
Broadly speaking , radiation exposure can be mitigated in three ways : Time , Distance , and Shielding . Two of these mitigating factors ca n't really be improved : Distance and Time . For distance , the radiation exposure concern for commercial jet pilots ( and travelers ) is generally related to <URL> and ultraviolet radiation from the sun . The sources are already quite distant , and the practical distances we can achieve on Earth wo n't make any appreciable difference here , so we can neglect distance . Time ( duration of exposure ) is already somewhat limited by the duration of flights , but the cumulative effect over multiple flights is what we 're generally concerned about when we discuss " pilot 's radiation exposure " . As their career requires them to fly , and the nature of jets means they 'll be flying at high altitude there 's not much that can be done with time , except perhaps having a very short career or not accepting a large number of flights . These options are not economically attractive if flying is your career . That leaves shielding . Pilots sacrifice the benefit of shielding ( from the Earth 's atmosphere ) as they climb : The atmosphere is less dense and there is less of it between the pilot and the background radiation , therefore their exposure is increased . It 's here that improvements can at least theoretically be made : The pilots and passengers already gain some shielding from the structure of the aircraft , but not nearly as much as 30,000 feet of atmosphere provides . The aircraft could be constructed with additional radiation-shielding materials ( lead foil for example , and UV-attenuating tints in the windows ) but doing so would add a significant amount of weight . As with most radiation shielding situations it ultimately becomes an economic trade-off : You implement shielding to bring the exposure ( dose ) down to an acceptable level given the time and distance constraints you 're working within . The additional dose received by pilots <URL> , and adding shielding to reduce it further would not give a huge increase in safety . The costs ( in terms of aircraft design , construction , and operating cost to carry the additional weight ) would exceed the cost of treating the relatively minor complications such as skin cancer which may result from the additional exposure over a lifetime career of flying . If all of that was too much to read , the short answer to your question is " The best way to mitigate increased radiation exposure from flying is to remain at low altitudes . " ( Similar to how the best way to mitigate the increased radiation from living in Denver , Colorado at ~ 5,000 feet above MSL is to move to New Orleans , LA at 7 feet below MSL . ) The next best thing would be to fly less frequently or on shorter legs ( to reduce the duration of exposure ) .
From my research to date it seems that most general aviation and commercial fixed wing pilots are instead trained rigorously in crash avoidance rather than crash escape . Flight attendants and other cabin staff drill regularly in crash preparation and cabin evacuation in several situations ( gear-down landing , belly landing , water landing , fires blocking escape doors X , Y and Z , etc ) but in an emergency , the job of the people behind the yokes is to first make sure the plane gets back on the ground in as close to one piece as possible ; nobody 's walking away from a nose-down dive into a mountain .
The correct term is to vacate a runway . The term is used several times in the ICAO Manual of Radiotelephony ( Doc 9432 ) , including the following example ( among many ) : 4.9 After landing Unless absolutely necessary , controllers should not give taxi instructions to pilots until the landing roll is completed . Unless otherwise advised , pilots should remain on tower frequency until the runway is vacated . Pilot : Georgetown Ground Fastair 345 runway vacated ATC : Fastair 345 taxi to stand 27 via taxiway alpha And a relevant note from the same document : Note . -- The runway is vacated when the entire aircraft is beyond the relevant runway-holding position .
end question
start question
Why do some fighter jets have two pilots while others have only one ?
Speaking of fighters in their basic role , there are 2 . Interception and escort . A single seat fighter would be superior in both scenarios because the space occupied by the second seater , plus the life support systems double the weight which can be put to fuel , countermeasures or weapons , and the extra weight and space will affect handling in air to air combat . When the role is ground attack , 2 seat versions can be an advantage , such as SAM suppression mission , bombing and other types of strikes . All of the above applies to modern aircraft . Previously , say the 1970s and before , 2 seat fighters were sometimes necessary due to the technology available at that time . The F-4 and F-14 for example , the 2nd seater operated the radar because the pilot really could n't keep his head in the cockpit when engaging multiple enemy contacts or when the fight was close in . Head up displays were n't available so the aircraft systems available to the pilot by necessity was kept limited in order to limit pilot overload .
Why does the F-35 Lightning II have only 1 crew when the F/A -18 Hornet had 2 ? According to <URL> involved in the development of the F-35 , the F 35 is a single seat aircraft because : New advances in avionics and sensor fusion technology , which can allow a single pilot to perform missions that previously required two crew members . Given the fact that the F-35 is build around the concept of <URL> there is less cockpit workload for most strike missions . Consequently , the need for a co pilot is a lot less . The single-seat configuration also maximises commonality between the three variants of the F 35 thereby keeping development costs low . The survivability of the F 35 includes limiting the probability of detection . Ergo , a two seater version can very easily increase the RCS of the F 35 thereby compromising its stealth capabilities <URL> That said , one major drawback that remains on the one seat <URL> is the demand on one <URL> to assimilate and decide on all the information available .
The landing on carrier is indeed hard . The reason is not the deceleration ( which is handled by the hook ) , but the touch-down . Since the deck is short , the wires ca n't be spaced very far apart , so the aircraft must touch down very precisely . Since the precision is better at steeper angle , the aircraft landing on carrier do not flare . At all . So they hit the deck at more than twice the vertical speed compared to typical landing on decent runway .
Yes , advanced flight directors and autopilots for helicopters can control the aircraft in all axes , and often they have modes for hovering built in , including maintain altitude , lateral veloctiy hold , hover , and/or autolevel . Hovering is difficult because it requires more complex controls than maintaining altitude in an airplane . Helicopters have a different set of control axes than fixed-wing aircraft . Fixed wing aircraft are controlled in pitch , roll , and yaw , with thrust as an extra variable . On a helicopter the flight path is controlled through cyclic ( roll and pitch ) , collective , and throttle , with the anti-torque pedals as well to control yaw . Hovering the aircraft requires controlling of the cyclic to keep the aircraft over its target with no lateral movement , and collective and throttle to maintain constant altitude , although the exact procedures are a little more complex . While not present on low-end helicopters due to a combination of complexity and lack of necessity , advanced autopilots for helicopters do exist . Like on other aircraft , there is a wide variety in autopilots between simple functions to maintain attitude ( often called one or two-cue guidance depending on the number of axes used ) to complex FMS-integrated three-axis modes ( which would be " three-cue " guidance ) . The FAA <URL> states , for example , that " The most advanced autopilots can fly an instrument approach to a hover without any additional pilot input once the initial functions have been selected . " On the Agusta AW139 helicopter that I 'm familiar with ( although I 'm not a pilot ) , they have several modes that provide this functionality : an altitude mode to maintain a given altitude an altitude acquire mode to smoothly reach a desired altitude an autolevel mode to level off at the end of an approach segment a lateral velocity hold mode to maintain slow lateral motion or no lateral motion more exotic search and rescue modes providing capabilites to transition to a hover , mark-on-target descents to predefined altitutdes , etc. . A traditional hover would be achieved by combining a low lateral velocity mode with a zero vertical speed mode like altitude or autolevel .
The vortex generators are used in commercial aircraft ( Boeing especially ) , for a number of reasons , which are usually not applicable to GA aircraft . For example , vortex generators are used for anything from stall alleviation to <URL> to noise reduction , some of which are not applicable for GA aircraft . Also , they are <URL> , which is much more expansive compared to the GA aircraft . That said , vortex generators are found in some aircraft , like the Piper Malibu Meridian , as shown below , <URL> . <URL> Image from www.nasa.gov Another point is the a <URL> for GA aircraft . A number of GA aircraft have been retrofitted with them . <URL> By Ahunt at English Wikipedia - I took this photo and release it to the public domain , Public Domain However , they are quite costly and require extensive tests for certification , with the result that they are not used much compared to commercial aircraft .
By sweeping wing backwards , you essentially make the air ' see ' another airfoil . Look at these two diagrams : When the air meets the wing , it travels along $ V$ . This ' seen ' airfoil is a lot thinner than $ V1 $ ( which is perpendicular to the leading edge ) . As the aircraft experiences less pressure , the aircraft experiences less drag . However , this also reduces the velocity of the air . This is good if you 're looking to delay things such as shockwaves as the air goes supersonic , since spreading the force out more delays this effect and the flow separation which comes with it . Unfortunately , for all the advantages , It would have a very high landing speed . So the wings are swept forward , the aircraft has a more effective aerofoil for lower speeds , and the minimum airspeed decreases correspondingly . There is now more drag , but also more lift which you need for the slower speed . <URL> puts this nicely in not all too-complex terms : If we were to begin to slide the wing sideways ( spanwise ) , the sideways motion of the wing relative to the air would be added to the previously perpendicular airflow , resulting in an airflow over the wing at an angle to the leading edge . This angle results in airflow traveling a greater distance from leading edge to trailing edge , and thus the air pressure is distributed over a greater distance ( and consequently lessened at any particular point on the surface ) . This scenario is identical to the airflow experienced by a swept wing as it travels through the air . The airflow over a swept wing encounters the wing at an angle . That angle can be broken down into two vectors , one perpendicular to the wing , and one parallel to the wing . The flow parallel to the wing has no effect on it , and since the perpendicular vector is shorter ( meaning slower ) than the actual airflow , it consequently exerts less pressure on the wing . In other words , the wing experiences airflow that is slower - and at lower pressures - than the actual speed of the aircraft . One of the factors that must be taken into account when designing a high-speed wing is compressibility , which is the effect that acts upon a wing as it approaches and passes through the speed of sound . The significant negative effects of compressibility made it a prime issue with aeronautical engineers . Sweep theory helps mitigate the effects of compressibility in transonic and supersonic aircraft because of the reduced pressures . This allows the mach number of an aircraft to be higher than that actually experienced by the wing . Is there a performance gain ? Depends on your definition : Having fixed swept wings would imply that : The landing speed might be unacceptably high , and with that , long runways would be required . You could design a fast and light aircraft.Take the F104 Starfighter for example , which had thin , short wings for the same effect but could n't move them , and was extremely dangerous at slow speeds . Having variable wings : The F14 was intended for carrier operations , where you would want a slow landing speed . Making an aircraft go that fast would probably have been impossible otherwise . It was also designed for long range operations , adding weight of fuel . Adds weight and mechanical complexity to the airframe , which increases maintenance cost and fuel burn . If I understand it correctly , today aircraft today rely more on system such as high-lift devices like for instance slats and flaps .
The philosophy of fighter cabin pressurization is different from that of the passenger aircraft . In case of airliners , the cabin pressure decreases while the aircraft climbs upto a certain altitude , after which the value is kept constant ( usually at 6000 - 8000 ft cabin altitude ) . In case of combat aircraft , <URL> . The cockpit pressure is maintained at certain value to a particular altitude ( usually 8k feet ) ; then the pressure is maintained ( at 8k ft ) till the aircraft reaches another altitude ( ~ 23k feet ) ; after that a pressure differential ( ~ 5 psi ) is maintained between the cockpit pressure and the ambient pressure . This reduces stress on the airframe and is safer in case of rapid decompression during combat . So , a fighter cockpit at 40k feet is actually stressed less ( due to pressurization ) compared to an airliner at that altitude . There is another thing to be noted - a combat aircraft is designed for much higher loads compared to a civilian airliner ; so , the structure is capable of taking more stresses . So , pressurization is not the limiting factor in case of combat aircraft . One way of calculating the life of fighter aircraft is to apply loads on the airframe depending on the expected mission profile ( like TO - cruise - loiter - cruise - landing ) , then calculate the theoretical life based on how long the airframe survived . Of course , this means that the life will change if the mission changes - like what happened when some aircraft were shifted from high level bombing to low level penetration roles .
Your observation about roll inertia is correct : Winglets add proportionally more roll inertia for their small increase in L/D , and this increase exists only for the higher range of lift coefficients . At low lift coefficients ( think cruise ) , when the induced drag is low , they add more friction drag and reduce the L/D overall . There are three aspects to maneuverability : How quickly can you accelerate into a roll ? Here the added inertia of winglets reduces roll acceleration How high is the maximum sustained turn rate ? This is determined by the maximum lift at zero sink rate , and here winglets are helping . Especially when mounted to low aspect ratio wings . How high is the maximum turn rate ? Now only lift counts , and the increased drag is compensated by an increased sink rate . Again , winglets help a little , but less than with the sustained turn rate . Now look at the time any fighter will spend around 1g ( hint : Something close to 100 % ) and how much is spent at high lift coefficients , like when turning tightly in air combat . Winglets would help in the turn ( and I think Ethan 's opinion is wrong ) , but be a source of drag for the rest of the mission . Adding winglets would require to increase the fuel volume to prevent a reduction in flight time and range . Normally , winglets are only used on highly loaded , high-aspect ratio wings when their L/D at a rather high lift coefficient needs to be pushed up even more . Highly maneuverable configurations are less concerned with single-percentage increases in L/D for a small part of the flight , and in order to improve turn performance , increasing wing span is much more effective . But that increases roll inertia and roll damping , so fighters use low-aspect ratio wings and compensate their higher drag in a turn with more powerful engines . Note that the trend in fighter aspect ratios went down with the improving thrust-to-weight ratio of jet engines . Now that is the reason why you do n't see winglets on fighter jets : They would lower L/D for most of the flight . To perform the same mission , the fighter without winglets can be made smaller . But let 's make no mistake : Low aspect ratio configurations gain the most from winglets : They were essential on the <URL> to give it enough L/D for a successful flare .
Small planes tend to have keys , but not all . The bigger the plane the less likely a key is needed and once you get into jets , I ca n't think of any that need keys for engine starts . The starting and securing of engines with no keys comes down to switches and knobs . Likewise with exterior doors , on smaller planes including private end executive jets , you can find keyed exterior doors and luggage compartments . With transport jets at airlines you wo n't find keys . To secure those doors the jet bridge is pulled away from the airplane so there is no physical access to the boarding door .
I 'm no expert , but I can think of two general reasons : risk of incapacitation , and general physical limitations ( reaction speed , stamina , the ability to maintain concentration for extended periods etc. ) . The age 65 limit only applies to part 121 ATP pilots , by the way ; you can still be a commercial or private pilot for as long as you can keep getting a valid medical . Older people are simply at <URL> and many other medical conditions , and they 're also much more likely to require medication that may not be approved by the FAA or other national authorities . Of course that does n't mean that every older pilot is the same but I guess that the FAA has decided that since the risks increase with age , at some point they become unacceptable . To understand the specific reasons for that decision you would probably need to dig up the original <URL> or transcripts of the public debate/hearings , but I have no idea if that 's possible or not . Then the other aspect is general physical and mental condition . They both deteriorate with age , and the NTSB sometimes <URL> as a potential factor in accidents : On the day of the accident , the pilot had flown several formation sorties . The day was hot , and the formation activities were demanding . The accident flight was relatively long , and the co-owner of the airplane guessed it was about 45 minutes long . Most formation sorties were 30 minutes or less . The accident pilot was in his early 70s and was by far the oldest member of the flight . Due to the pilot 's age , the demanding schedule , and the length of the formation sorties , fatigue could have been a factor , although it could not be conclusively determined . Of course , any discussion like this is a generalization and I 'm sure it 's easy to find individual 70-year old pilots or controllers who are ' sharper ' than younger ones ( after all , experience counts for a lot too ) . But there 's no escaping the overall pattern that older people in general are more prone to medical issues and less physically/mentally capable than younger ones , and at least one US court <URL> that there 's no effective way to determine individual risk so a general rule is not discriminatory : The court also concluded that ExxonMobil had established , through the testimony of several medical experts , that the risk of sudden incapacitation in flight significantly increased with age , and that there are no adequate means of individually testing each pilot to determine whether a pilot was at risk to suffer such an incapacitation .
Brake temperature sensors are quite common on airliners . Turnaround times of large aircraft are often impacted by the required cooling time . This is because during take-off the brakes must be cool enough to absorb the heat of a possible rejected take-off . Brake temperature and tire pressure indication on the Airbus A330 ( note the deflated tire &amp; high temperatures ) Source : <URL> t
Aircraft have fixed gears ( when they have gears at all ) ! However in a sense a variable-pitch propeller can be considered analogous to transmission in a car and it was manual in some aircraft . The power transmitted by propeller is , within some reasonable range , proportional to its rotation rate . And so is , again within some reasonable range , the power produced by the engine . So for slow planes a fixed pitch propeller with connected by fixed gear does a decent job . As you open the throttle , the engine speed increases , so does the propeller and that 's exactly what it needs to do to transmit the power . Simpler aircraft have no gears at all and propeller is mounted directly on the engine shaft , higher power engines often have 2:1 reduction gear as the engine rpm would be too high for a propeller . Now at higher speed , the apparent propeller pitch is reduced as the air is already moving , so it would spin faster and faster and eventually too fast for the engine . To counter this , faster propeller-driven aircraft have variable pitch propeller . As speed increases , it is set to higher angle of attack ( coarser ) so it keeps delivering power without increasing rpm . Early variable pitch propellers had manually controlled pitch , but quite quickly constant speed propellers were developed ( many WWII aircraft had them already ) where a weight-on-spring controls the propeller pitch so that constant rpm is maintained . The manually controlled units required a lot of attention and the constant-speed system is rather simple , so manual pitch control was quickly abandoned . And that is kind of equivalent to perfect variable gear transmission . The pilot still has a throttle lever and a propeller pitch lever and selects power and rpm independently . Higher rpm allow higher power , but do n't require it , so landing is usually done with low power , but max rpm so the engine reacts quickly if power is added ( does not need to spin up ) . During cruise some more moderate value is selected ( according to manufacturer recommendation ) to reduce wear of the engine . Turboprop engines always have constant-speed propellers , because in a turbine engine the difference between turbine speed at idle and at full power is not actually that big . Again the rpm limits maximum power , so landing is done with low power , but high rpm and the engine reacts quickly when power is added . Last the turbojet/turbofan engines just turn the turbines and compressors as they need . It 's not much different from the fixed propeller really , though the jet engines now usually have variable guide vanes in the stator ( that are just linked to rpm ) .
My short answer : Stability is reduced by shifting the center of gravity aft . Shifting it past the neutral point makes the airplane unstable , so movements away from the trimmed state are accelerated . This increases maneuverability . Flight computers are multiple redundant , if one dies the others take over . Slow unstable airplanes can be flown by a human pilot , but not fast unstable airplanes . For the long answer , let me first clarify terms : Static stability is the tendency of a system to return to it 's old state after being disturbed . Take a pendulum : If you pull it to one side , it will return to the middle . Eventually . Dynamic stability is the tendency of an oscillating system for the oscillations to die down over time . Take the same pendulum : It will swing from side to side , and friction will ensure this happens with ever smaller amplitude . Now we need to add dimensions , all three of them : Pitch , roll and yaw . An airplane can be stable in one dimension and unstable in a different one . I understand your question such that you ask about the static pitch stability ( or longitudinal stability ) of fighter aircraft . The Wright Flyer was longitudinally unstable ( see <URL> for more ) . Once aircraft designers learned that aircraft can be made to fly stable , and learned that this is of immense benefit in pilot training , static stability became a requirement for new aircraft . When war in Europe broke out , the British forces were equipped with a superb <URL> , but it was so stable that it took effort and time to convince it to change course . They were shot down in droves . From now on , low stability was a prime requirement for fighters and aerobatic aircraft . Static stability is proportional to the control forces ( more precisely : To the hinge moment of the respective control surface ) , so reducing stability gave pilots more response for the same effort . Longitudinal static stability is measured as the relative distance between neutral point ( NP ) and the center of gravity ( CG ) . See <URL> for more . Longitudinal static stability is achieved by placing the CG ahead of the NP . Shifting the CG back gives you a more responsive airplane , but also one which is more easily disturbed by gusts . This is the design technique you asked about . Pretty simple , right ? Once you shift the CG aft of the NP , stability is lost and the airplane will increase deviations from the trimmed state . This can be helpful if you want large angle changes , and quickly . An unstable aircraft only needs a small kick and will do the rest of the maneuver all by itself . This is how it helps in maneuverability . But it is even more helpful to reduce the inertias , especially around the roll axis , for a faster response . That is why all combat aircraft have their engines close to the center . Of course , negative stability is not acceptable when you need to take your hands off the stick to get a map out or to pee on a long flight . So without computer control , the limit was a CG position near , but not aft of the NP . With supersonic aircraft , things got more complicated . Now the aircraft operates in two flight regimes , one where lift acts at the quarter chord of the wing and one where it acts at mid-chord . Aircraft with low static stability become very stable in supersonic flight , and the tail surface has to create a high down-force so that the sum of all lift stays where the CG is . Creating lift always incurs a drag penalty , and in supersonic flight it has to be payed twice : One for the excess lift on the wing ( which is needed to compensate for the tail 's down-force ) and one for the down-force on the tail . Using a flight control computer offers the possibility to allow the pilot to let go of the stick without the aircraft going off course . Now the stick does not command elevator deflection , but pitch rate , and the CG can be moved back from maybe 12 % of MAC ( mean aerodynamic chord ) to -2 % . If you compare the wing areas of stable and unstable jets ( Jaguar and Mirage F-1 are prime examples ) , you will see how much is achieved just by going back with the CG by a few percent of wing chord . Both configurations have the same airfield and combat performance ! Can a human still fly such an aircraft ? In glider competitions , the more daring pilots fly with relaxed static stability and have no problem to keep the aircraft under control . Even the Wright brothers could handle their unstable airplane , and handling improved when they moved the CG further back ( If you want to know why , please post a new question . This answer is getting too long already ! ) . However , the speed of an aircraft 's pitch response is proportional to flight speed ( and inverse to the pitch moment of inertia ) , so faster aircraft are harder to control . You can compare dynamic pressure with the stiffness of a spring : A stiffer spring moves the eigenfrequency of a spring-mass system up , and the same is true for the eigenvalues of the <URL> of an aircraft . Given that the reaction time of a good pilot is a
There are two philosophies for fleet selection : One type / model or one manufacturer approach Multi manufacturer divide and conquer approach First of all , a single model fleet is only possible for airlines that operate on sectors of comparable length . You ca n't do intercontinental and regional flights with the same aircraft model efficiently . As you observe , there are obviously costs associated with flying different types of aircraft . A single type fleet like for example Ryanair ( B738 ) , Southwest ( B73 * ) and Easyjet ( A320 family ) operate , means the cost of maintenance , training , etc can be kept low . Adding a few aircraft of another type to the fleet would mean additional tools in stock , diversified training and a separate flight crew group and lots of other cost factors . Aircraft manufacturers know that too . So if you need another 10 - 20 aircraft , your standard supplier will ask a high price for this fleet extension , knowing that the competition is never able to put in a compelling offer when all additional cost are taken into account . Only if the batch size is large enough the competitor might be able to offset the additional costs with a unit discount . That is where the mixed fleet operator has an advantage . Since the additional overhead costs of a couple extra aircraft from type A or B are minimal , they <URL> while negotiating with the manufacturers . Single manufacturer airlines usually order aircraft in <URL> , otherwise they would not get a proper deal ; multi type airlines can order aircraft in lower numbers . And then there are politics . Sometimes a national airline will be subjected to political pressure to buy from a certain manufacturer . This is especially the case for airlines operating in the international / intercontinental market . The extra fleet cost incurred will be ( partially ) offset by deals in another field .
Heathrow is somewhat of a standout when it comes to volume . Your wording , that LHR " gets by " with 2 runways is apt . By movements , it is the busiest 2-runway airport in the world . By passenger volume it is second only to Dubai Intl. ( Note , though , that DXB is home to Emirates , who has the world 's largest fleet of A380 's . They are the only airport that averages over 200 passengers per movement ! ) Aircraft movement is the best way to look at it from a runway usage standpoint . The following chart is sorted by aircraft movement . * <URL> As you can see , the top 3 all have 5 or more runways . There are 7 large airports with 5 or more rwys and they all fall in the top 16 . The top 16 is rounded out by 5 airports with 4 runways , one with 3 runways and ... LHR . The next 2-rwy airport on the list is Benito Juarez Intl. in Mexico City clear down at 21st on the list . Any busy airport with 2 runways has to make those runways work as tightly as possible with little room for error . Otherwise they end up with delays . If I sort the list by movements per rwy , all of those with 2 rwys rise to the top . 10 of the top 15 have 2 rwys . <URL> So , how does LHR pull it off ? How do they manage to pack all those flights in to just two runways?There 's a downside to handling that kind of volume with so few runways . The following collage gives a clue as to what that is . <URL> Those are just a random pick of arrivals at a couple of random times yesterday morning at LHR . There was no significant weather at the times . As you can see , you just do n't arrive at LHR without being put in a holding stack . Every single flight I could find had to do at least one racetrack . At any point during the day , in places like Chesham , Effingham and Brentwood , if you look up there will be as many as 6 or 7 aircraft doing racetracks waiting to be cleared into Heathrow . That makes for very efficient runway usage when there are 20 planes waiting in line , but it 's terribly inefficient for the airlines and passengers to have to spend so much time burning fuel circling around London . On the flip side , building more runways has a down side too . It will get the planes out of the air quicker , but , as happens at Schipol - which has 6 runways - you can end up with a long taxi back to the terminal . All data was taken from Wikipedia .
Rotating the propeller of the Cessna 441 Conquest II is to cool the <URL> engine in the aircraft . From <URL> On the Garrett TPE331 's we were trained to spin the props after shutdown to get cooling air flowing through the engine , this was done right after shutdown . Half an hour after we did the prop spins we had go back out to the aircraft and rotate the propellers one blade width . Moving the prop one blade width rotated the engine one half turn , this was to prevent the shaft from sagging as the engine cooled causing turbine blades to rub . The reason is given as : Direct drive turbo prop engines sometimes require this to remove residual heat from the engine because once the prop stops turning , so does the engine . When the pilot turns the prop , depending on the gear ratio , he is actually spinning the engine very fast . This helps move some of the heat out of the engine .
Pilot here ( with Cessna 152 hours ) as well as an engineer who made it most of the way to an Airframe and Powerplant technician license at one point in life . There are several reasons that conspire to produce ' unusable fuel ' : Fuel tanks on airplanes have complex shapes - they include baffles and other walls ( with holes in them ) to prevent oscillations from building up during in-flight movement . Sometimes these baffles are even engineered into the tanks late in the design cycle as testing finds oscillation issues . These baffles result in ' geometric trapping ' of fuel in nooks and crannies . Drawing fuel from a fuel tank is more complicated in a plane - cars are pretty much flat with minor tilts while airframes can have all sorts of odd and sustained directions that the fuel wants to go due to acceleration . Imagine an extended tilted spiral while descending - that fuel experiences far more lateral acceleration over a longer time period that a car would have . Getting the fuel system to pull fuel out from these different angles is challenging ( note that I 've picked a non-aerobatic maneuver for which the Cessna 152 of your question is qualified here ) . All of this is a cost/complexity tradeoff - solutions exist for 1 and 2 above - fighter jets use fuel bladders that have pressure bladders arranged to squeeze the fuel out so that they can get almost all the fuel even at high G-forces and unusual angles . Aerobatic planes have similarly more expensive and complicated systems than the old and cheap Cessna 152 . There are other considerations as well , but mostly it comes down to whether the plane in question can justify the cost and effort to get every last drop of fuel . Things get even more complicated in rockets - the moon rockets ( properly the Saturn 5 although it was an upper stage specifically ) had special extra engines called ullage motors whose only job was to give the stage a little boost in space to push the fuel towards the rear of the rocket so that the main motors could draw fuel and start . Addendum edit : @supercat below - the definition of unusable fuel is set by federal aviation regulation part 23 , section 959 ( <URL> ) and basically is the worst case under " intended operation " for the particular plane . Since the Cessna 152 is not aerobatically rated , for example , the unused fuel is defined as the fuel level where SOME intended maneuver would be capable of causing a fuel system error . In practice , especially in flat level flight , some of that unusable fuel would be available for use although you are not supposed to plan to use it in your flight planning .
You must have heard wrong . Clipping wings is done to reach higher maximum speed . You mention light sport aircraft , so I assume they have propellers driven by piston engines . This means their power output is constant over speed and the thrust is inverse with speed . To calculate their <URL> , you can use the venerable <URL> which shows that the aircraft has to fly at its optimum L/D for maximum range . At this speed , induced drag equals zero-lift drag , and span helps to cut down the former . Clipping the wing will shift the optimum cruise speed up , not down . With clipped wings the aircraft has less surface area , which will reduce zero-lift drag . This is the drag component which determines maximum speed . Induced drag will go up , but it is insignificant at maximum speed , so the aircraft will be able to fly slightly faster .
pilots need to be able to do work during turbulence . passengers do n't really like to be fully restrained .
Some autopilots found on advanced aircraft can be engaged on selected axis only , for example Boeing 737 , 747-200 &amp; MD-11 . There are three autopilot indicators on the Boeing autopilots : auto throttle , roll and pitch . Each can be in a different mode . Here a Boeing 737 's autopilot roll mode is set to Heading Select ( HDG SEL ) while the Pitch is flown manually ( CWS P ) : <URL> The pilot can pull or push the yoke , and the autopilot will roll the aircraft automatically . If the pilot steer the yoke left or right , the roll mode will change to CWS R . In this image below , the pilot is manually Rolling the aircraft ( CWS R ) , but the autopilot pitch mode is set to Vertical Speed mode . <URL> Later models , such as the Boeing 777 , does not have this feature - both pitch and roll modes must be engaged together .
end question
start question
Cabin crew : how do they get Oxygen in the event of decompression ?
There are usually extra oxygen masks in the cabin - it is a regulatory requirement . From <URL> : ( c ) If certification for operation above 25,000 feet is requested , there must be oxygen dispensing equipment meeting the following requirements : ( 1 ) ... There must be ... at least two oxygen dispensing units connected to oxygen terminals in each lavatory . The total number of dispensing units and outlets in the cabin must exceed the number of seats by at least 10 percent . The extra units must be as uniformly distributed throughout the cabin as practicable . So the cabin crew can use the nearest unused oxygen masks . Also , each flight attendant position has a portable oxygen system , which can be used in case of emergency ( though it is intended usually for therapeutic purposes ) . in addition , there is also the Protective Breathing Equipment in the cabin . Though these two are not intended for normal use during decompression , I guess it can be used in case of an emergency .
This depends on the type of radar system and its intended application . <URL> . The early radars could not tell the difference between aircraft types , any kind of movement was coordinated beforehand on the friendly side and anything that was not pre-arranged was considered foe . The early <URL> that resided on the <URL> could be trigger by as little as a dense flock of birds . The early radar data from the <URL> was processed on the <URL> a very early ( very primitive ) system for coordinating a great deal of weather , radar , and flight information . After WWII and through out the cold war era newer tech was built to solve the issue of coordination . The modern <URL> that is now in use provides at least some way to pick apart radar targets . With the advent of modern computer processing and the ability to analyze radar returns beyond <URL> it is possible to determine ( with great certainty ) the make of an aircraft by its <URL> ( and in some cases thermal signature ) . Also known as <URL> . Everything ( <URL> ) have a radar cross section and once a cross section has been identified it could be used again to check against future pings . One could go as far as to say there is some historical precedent around this . The general idea of " if it comes from over there is one of them , if it comes from over hear its one of us " is very much how <URL> and the identification of the actual plane was less important than identifying that it was there . If an unidentified target entered a radar area and did not identify its self , over the radio , with some kind of transponder and or at a preordained time it was intercepted . Not until visual identification was made was it not longer considered a threat . Here in the states by 2020 the civilian world will be sending <URL> to supplement ( and potentially replace ) radar returns .
You stay vigilant by having seen things go wrong . <URL> the importance of a proper preflight is drilled into you by your primary instructor from day one in light aircraft , and that mentality carries through all the way up to heavy transport-category aircraft : You want to find any problems you can while you 're on the ground , because if you take a problem into the air with you it 's a decision you can quickly come to regret . Personally I 've found all sorts of " interesting " things on preflight inspections of light aircraft , including ( but not limited to ) : Mud wasps building a nest in the pitot tube Mud wasps building a nest in the fuel drain ( still do n't know what was up with that ) Missing screws from a fairing Flat-spot on a tire A tennis ball stuffed in between two cylinders ( a common flight instructor trick to see if students are doing a thorough preflight ) Position light lenses installed backwards ( another common CFI trick , but this one was actually a maintenance shop screw-up ) Various light bulbs burned out Water in the fuel after a heavy storm . I 've also heard some scary stories : Migrating colony of bees hanging out on the tail of the aircraft ( described as " The tail was literally dripping bees " ) Flight controls rigged backwards Big gouge in the wingtip ( acquired by the previous pilot scraping the tip against another plane 's tail taxiing in on the ramp ) The ever-classic " ran out of fuel because you did n't visually check the tanks "
<URL> shows what happens in a spin . <URL> The <URL> shows a left turn , and the slip indicator shows a skid ( ball to the far left as well ) . To get out of it you 'd want to push hard on the right rudder pedal . The yaw damper does n't allow full rudder deflection . Also as the instructor shows , pushing the stick left and right does nothing . The stall protection will push forward , again wo n't help . The TBM 930 does n't have an auto-throttle , so there is no engine control involved either . The installed Electronic Stability and Protection ( ESP ) system does n't handle developed spins -- Leveling at 4,500 feet , I performed a series of steep turns , slow flight , an imminent stall with gear and flaps down , and a power-on stall . As the stall approaches , the G3000 's Underspeed Protection ( USP ) feature , linked to the angle of attack computer , comes alive as it automatically commands the autopilot servos to lower the nose . ESP , meanwhile , will attempt to return the airplane to level flight if bank or pitch angle limits are exceeded . -- <URL> Summary : The safety features on the TBM would alert and prevent getting into a stall or spin .
1 ) ADS-B will stop working when the transponder is switched off at the gate after arrival in Tokyo . Airliners use the 1090 MHz Extended Squitter variety of ADS-B which is the worldwide standard . 2 ) I do n't have hard numbers but I guess it is approximately 90 percent of the flights . At most economical cruise flight levels , ADS-C is mandatory . 3 ) ADS-C is a common system . For aircraft not equipped , position reporting of HF is the alternative . And soon space based ADS-B will be available as well .
How do you define a crew duty day ? When does it start and when does it end ? In the most simplistic terms , a crew 's duty day can be defined in two parts : the " flight duty period " ( FDP ) and the " flight time " . The FDP begins when the crew " clocks in " for their shift . There might be administrative duties to accomplish prior to flying , so " flight time " has not yet started . The FDP ends when the last flight that they operate blocks in . The Flight Time begins and ends with each Block Out to Block In , and there might be several individual flights within a single FDP . Once the FDP is over , they might still be required to attend to admin duties , but their FDP " clock " has stopped ticking . Their " rest " clock has not yet started , just because their FDP has ended . ( Some of these terms and definitions will be expanded upon later . ) Also what are the legal limits ( in other words how long can a crew duty day last in terms of hours ) ? This is an extremely complicated question , and the rest of this answer will be devoted to this , in conjunction with your other sub-questions . [ Are there ] standardized set of rules ? Not necessarily rules , per se ... but the ICAO does have a lot of documentation about duty/rest , fatigue management , and the effects on safety . Although the ICAO can not publish laws , most of it 's member nations write their aviation laws in close conjunction with ICAO 's recommendations . These nations have ratified treaties stating that they will " abide by " most of the ICAO 's recommendations . does each country define its own rules ? Yes , each regulatory body has its own laws for determining duty/rest requirements . Most are very similar , and based on the ICAO 's body of documentation and research . Narrowing this down even further , each carrier develops it 's own policies and procedures that are based on ( and approved by ) it 's parent nation 's regulatory body . What happens when you fly say from the US to Australia ? Which set of rules prevail ? You will follow the policies of your air carrier , which are enforced by your carrier 's country of registration . Let 's start with the US . Ok , within the US , most of the rules regarding duty/rest for Part 121 Air Carriers are enumerated in <URL> . There are some " All Cargo " duty/rest requirements under Part 121 <URL> ( Domestic ) , <URL> ( Flag ) , and <URL> ( Supplemental ) ; however , carriers can chose to use these 121 Subparts OR Part 117 , but not both . Once they make that choice ( listed in their GOM/OpSpecs and approved by the FAA ) , they are stuck with it . What is the exact definition of a " crew duty day " ? As noted in the comments of the question , this is not a legal term within the US FARs . Under Part 117 , we find the definition for these related terms : Calendar day means a 24-hour period from 0000 through 2359 using Coordinated Universal Time or local time . Duty means any task that a flightcrew member performs as required by the certificate holder , including but not limited to flight duty period , flight duty , pre - and post-flight duties , administrative work , training , deadhead transportation , aircraft positioning on the ground , aircraft loading , and aircraft servicing . Flight duty period ( FDP ) means a period that begins when a flightcrew member is required to report for duty with the intention of conducting a flight , a series of flights , or positioning or ferrying flights , and ends when the aircraft is parked after the last flight and there is no intention for further aircraft movement by the same flightcrew member . A flight duty period includes the duties performed by the flightcrew member on behalf of the certificate holder that occur before a flight segment or between flight segments without a required intervening rest period . Examples of tasks that are part of the flight duty period include deadhead transportation , training conducted in an aircraft or flight simulator , and airport/standby reserve , if the above tasks occur before a flight segment or between flight segments without an intervening required rest period . Rest period means a continuous period determined prospectively during which the flightcrew member is free from all restraint by the certificate holder , including freedom from present responsibility for work should the occasion arise . From there , it can get extremely complicated and an airline 's crew scheduler probably could not do their job without the aid of a computer . Flight crewmembers are restricted to a certain number of hours in a duty period , and there are limits to cumulative hours as well : total Flight Time can not exceed : -- 100 hours in any 672 consecutive hours or -- 1,000 hours in any 365 consecutive calendar day period . And then ... total Flight Duty Period can not exceed : 60 flight duty period hours in any 168 consecutive hours or 190 flight duty period hours in any 672 consecutive hours . They are required to have a certain number of hours of " rest " in between these duty periods , and those rest hou
The masks are connected to a <URL> by a lanyard . Pulling the mask pulls the lanyard , which pulls a pin from the generator and starts the reaction . They typically last betweeen about 10 and 20 minutes , more than enough time to get down to 10,000 feet where additional oxygen is not required . There is no need for a % of flight time since the crew will descend to a safe altitude then divert to the nearest suitable field . Therefore , the only requirement is to last during the ( emergency ) descent . You can not " repressurise " since the cabin altitude will be the same as the external altitude . The only thing to do is to increase the partial pressure of oxygen by descending . It 's worth mentioning that the flight crew each have their own , isolated supply from a bottle which lasts significantly longer . This is so that they can continue to fly if there are fumes in the cockpit . Cabin crew often have their own , smaller , portable bottles so that they can freely move about the cabin to assist the " self loading freight " . Many 's a morning when I would arrive to work feeling , ahem , a little " under the weather " and nip into the cockpit for a couple of minutes on 100 % oxygen . Works wonders - and do n't worry , they are topped up to full as part of the pre-flight service .
Under the rules of ICAO Annex 1 , Personnel Licensing , you do n't need an ATP License to fly as second in command ( SIC ) on a commercial aircraft required to be operated with a co-pilot . A commercial pilot license ( CPL ) is sufficient to be SIC on an aircraft that requires to be operated by more than a single pilot . And since 2006 ICAO have defined a Multi Crew Pilot License that also allows a pilot to be second in command on a commercial air transportation multi-crew aeroplane . The <URL> about Multi-Crew Pilot Licence ( MPL ) : The MPL allows a pilot to exercise the privileges of a co-pilot in a commercial air transportation on multi-crew aeroplanes . It provides the aviation community with an opportunity to train pilots directly for co-pilot duties . It is a new licence that has been introduced in addition to the existing pilot licences defined in Annex 1 -- Personnel Licensing . The licence focuses on ab initio airline pilot training . MPL training and assessment will be competency-based and involve a multi-crew environment and threat and error management from the onset . It provides for greater use of flight simulation training devices and include mandatory upset training . At this stage , only aeroplanes are considered for this new licence . The details of the requirements for the licence are contained in Annex 1 -- Personnel Licensing and in the Procedures for Air Navigation Services -- Training ( PANS-TRG ) . These documents outline the minimum international Standard for the implementation of the MPL by any State ; they can be purchased directly from ICAO through the Document Sales Unit . In Annex 1 , the requirements are laid down for the MPL . One of the requirements says : Experience 2.5.3.1 The applicant shall have completed in an approved training course not less than 240 hours as pilot flying and pilot not flying of actual and simulated flight . The MPL , combined with a type rating , will get you to the right hand seat of the aircraft of choice . So it 's likely there are 250-to-500-hours commercial pilots flying Second In Command ( SIC ) into JFK . With experience in Beech Bonanza 's , Cheyenne/Seminole , maybe CitationJet , a lot of simulator time and a couple of hours in a B777 . To answer your title question , in many countries pilots get their ATPL after building hours as SIC flying with a CPL or MPL within an airline training scheme .
There are usually extra oxygen masks in the cabin - it is a regulatory requirement . From <URL> : ( c ) If certification for operation above 25,000 feet is requested , there must be oxygen dispensing equipment meeting the following requirements : ( 1 ) ... There must be ... at least two oxygen dispensing units connected to oxygen terminals in each lavatory . The total number of dispensing units and outlets in the cabin must exceed the number of seats by at least 10 percent . The extra units must be as uniformly distributed throughout the cabin as practicable . So the cabin crew can use the nearest unused oxygen masks . Also , each flight attendant position has a portable oxygen system , which can be used in case of emergency ( though it is intended usually for therapeutic purposes ) . in addition , there is also the Protective Breathing Equipment in the cabin . Though these two are not intended for normal use during decompression , I guess it can be used in case of an emergency .
This is the main reason why Concorde had such small windows . It was calculated to reduce the rate of decompression to a survivable level in case one window fails . ( The prototype , by the way , had much larger windows ) . Other than that , I do n't know of any other ' special ' decompression mitigation measures that would be unique to Concorde . There were , of course , things that had to be done in a very special manner on Concorde in case of decompression . For example , rapid emergency descent : there was a special program that transfered fuel forward during emergency descent . It could be activated by a single button , and the flight engineer had to keep the program up to date for the current flight conditions . ( Generally , keeping the CG/fuel balance was pretty much a full time job for the Concorde flight engineer ) . But this would hardly help in case of ' uncontrolled ' ( explosive ) decompression .
Apparently yes . It has been mentioned in a number of places . <URL> is pretty simple : Step 1 : Approach locked lavatory Step 2 : Lift " LAVATORY " sign Step 3 : Slide the knob into the unlocked position Thats all to it , though they may vary with the aircraft . As @RalphJ points out in the comments , it should go without saying that unless you are cabin crew , you should not be doing this .
The air moves around the fuselage , which causes a localized increase in velocity around the aircraft . This increase in velocity causes a slight decrease in the outside air pressure , which effectively sucks air out of the fuselage , making the cabin at a slightly higher pressure altitude . The effect is localized . While the reduction in pressure , and increase in pressure altitude inside the cabin is small , many GA aircraft display a 40 foot or so difference in pressure altitude between the alternate static port ( inside the aircraft ) and the pressure altitude with the factory static port .
I like to show people videos of <URL> These videos show that wind does not have an effect on how well the aircraft stays in the air - no matter how strong it is , it only effects the path taken over the ground . A steady wind makes zero difference to the aerodynamics , whether it is a piper cub or a 747 . The aircraft does n't know what the wind is doing - comparable to you closing your eyes while floating on a smooth flowing river , you would n't think you are moving . The stated crosswind limit is only for landing , when you need to be able to fly in a straight line with precision . I think the big thing you 're forgetting is that the wind correction angle is affected by the true airspeed ( TAS ) . The faster the TAS , the less correction is needed for the same wind . Think about it , if you are travelling forward at a faster velocity , it will take a bigger force to knock you off course . 737s have a TAS of about 400-450kts , so whilst a 150kt wind is strong , it 's not all that different to a 30kt wind in a GA aircraft . 99 % of the time there will be a crosswind component of some kind , but the method of correction for jets is no different to GA - just point the noise into wind as per your calculations . Back to flying backwards for a minute . The only safety issue would be if the wind were to suddenly stop . The aircraft indicated airspeed would suddenly be 0 and a potentially unrecoverable stall could develop . But one thing many ' ground dwellers ' do n't appreciate is that the wind - in fair weather - is actually fairly constant when it is not effected by ground obstacles and friction . Generally speaking , the higher you go , the more steady and predictable the wind will be .
Generally there are two ways to get an interpretation of regulations from the FAA . The first ( less-formal ) way would be to call or email your <URL> with your question -- they will usually get back to you pretty quickly with a verbal opinion or an email ( on the two occasions I 've contacted the local FSDO I 've gotten an answer within 1-2 days ) . Interpretations from your local FSDO are essentially valid within their coverage area ( if you get an opinion from Farmingdale in New York the folks in Los Angeles , California may not honor it ) . The second ( very formal ) way is to write an actual on-paper letter to the FAA 's office of the chief counsel requesting a legal interpretation of some specific regulation ( s ) and <URL> : This request should be as specific as you can make it , for example : May the FAA hold a person who performs maintenance on an aircraft responsible for the proper performance of that maintenance under 43.13 ( a ) and ( b ) when that person was not the person who made the maintenance record entry required by 43.9 ? If your request is inspired by some ongoing action ( say a warning letter ) you should reference it and include a copy to help speed things along . The FAA 's legal staff will chew on the request for a while , and eventually produce <URL> ( the linked interpretation , which answers the example question above , took about 5 months , and it is a relatively simple interpretation - The more complex the regulation that needs to be interpreted the longer it will probably take ) . Counsel interpretations are organization-wide precedent , and <URL> . They are effective " The Final Word " on how regulations are to be applied ( unless overturned in court ) .
Once the airplane is closed up , all doors and windows secure , pressurization comes down to the following : how much air is being pumped into the cabin ? how much air is being let out of the cabin ? Air enters the cabin ( on a jet powered airplane ) through bleed air taps in the high pressure compressor of the engines . This air is routed through <URL> , or " packs " as they are commonly referred to . The packs condition the air for temperature and humidity ( typically taking all of the water out of the air ) and then pump this air into the cabin at high pressure such that it is at the proper temperature after expansion to cabin altitude . Air exits the cabin through outflow valves , which are typically at the rear of the pressure vessel . These can be manually or computer controlled and will open and close to regulate how much air leaves the cabin . To provide constantly fresh air , the incoming air from the packs is constantly supplied and as such the cabin pressure is almost entirely regulated by the outflow valves . These valves have to be able to exhaust more CFM of flow than the packs can supply in order to let the cabin climb and when providing less CFM than the packs the cabin will descend . The cabin altitude will be managed so that : it stays below a maximum pressure differential with the ambient atmosphere outside , cabin altitude rate of change is limited , maximum cabin altitude is kept below 10k feet ( and typically below 8k feet ) such that supplemental oxygen is not needed .
According to <URL> Airliners.net forum post , The masks are deployed automatically ( typically when cabin altitude exceeds 14,000 feet ) , or can be deployed manually from the flight deck . In addition , if a passenger service unit oxygen door should fail to open , cabin crew can open the PSU door ( either inserting a flat object or a special tool depending on the aircraft type ) manually . So basically , the masks are deployed automatically based on sensors , with manual deployment as a primary failsafe and physical access as a secondary failsafe .
The 25m tall asymmetrical pylons used in Red bull air races are made of 9 different sections , which are connected with zippers for easy removal and installation . In this image , you can see the multiple sections that make up the pylon . <URL> Interior of redbull air race pylons ; image from <URL> Airgators Team Captain , Holger Leprich , who is responsible for replacing the pylons after a hit , explains the procedure <URL> . The pylons are held up using air pressure - electronically controlled equipment at the bottom of the pylon creates a positive air pressure so that the pylon stands upright . For each competition , there are three five member pylon replacement teams ( called Airgators ) to ensure quick replacement - their current record being 67 sec . The pylon is designed to tear off in case of a hit . Once the pylon is hit , the team moves to the damaged pylons location on clearance from the race director . Once the team reaches there , a couple of guys control the electronic equipment ( and deflate the pylon , if required ) at the bottom of the pylon , while another two replace the damaged parts - they simply unzip the damaged part and zip in the new one , while the last one checks the pylon . Once the replacement is completed , the team inflates the pylon . Mission accomplished .
From a legal standpoint English is not only the official language of aviation but you must be " <URL> " to legally fly at least here in the US . This is both an <URL> requirement these days . Although what happens when a repeat is needed has been covered in other answers it should be noted that accents should not stand in the way of communications and you may , depending on your case be required to have an " English Proficient " endorsement on your license . In reality there should never be a pronunciation issue ( but we live in a far from perfect world ) Here is the full ICAO chart of grading , <URL> ( <URL> ) <URL> on the dangers of language differences in aviation accidents . As for the fact that some aircraft radios garble signals and do n't help in transmitting marginally acceptable audio all while in a plane with near defining engine noise ; that is a whole separate question ...
Aircraft incidents are an extremely remote event ( they say that you 're more likely to be killed in a car accident on your way to the airport than a plane crash ) . Within all the incidents that engineers foresee , some are more likely than others . These incidents are included in pilot training ( and passenger briefing if applicable ) to increase the likelihood that it can be handled properly . Loss of cabin pressure is one of them . Technically air pressure inside the cabin can not be " lost " , but the term is used to describe a significant drop in air pressure . The masks deploy when cabin altitude is around 14,000 feet . Cabin pressure is provided by two methods : The engine actively pumping air into the cabin The fuselage is sufficiently sealed to contain air pressure inside ( it is not 100 % sealed , but the pump is powerful enough to overcome the small leakage ) Failure of any of these two components would lead to a loss of cabin pressure . Historically , causes of cabin depressurization has included : Failure of all engines , whether due to <URL> , <URL> , or any other reasons Failure of all air conditioning units on the aircraft <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Okay , so , going with the idea that you have a compass ( and also with the idea that this can be a general question , not necessarily about flight MH370 ) . If you 're heading from Tokyo , Japan to Seattle , Washington , USA ( direct ) , then you could be reasonably certain the craft should be somewhere between headings 45 and 135 . So if you notice the craft is on a heading of 270 ( ie. , clearly you 're going in the opposite direction ) and this direction has been sustained for say , an hour , I 'd think it would be okay to at least ask the cabin crew what 's going on . As with any time you are raising a concern with the cabin crew , you should be polite . As has been stated , they are used to passengers being a bit nervous and , as a result , they can easily interpret belligerence as a sign of irrational fear . And , as you might guess , it 's easy to ignore someone if you feel they are being irrational . So , if you want be taken seriously , be polite . You 're far more likely to get an actual answer , or raise a valid concern even . So , if you just ask , " why are we headed west instead of east " they may have a very simple answer like , " well , the pilot mentioned we might have to take an odd route to avoid some weather " or " this is the flight to Bombay India , how did you get on it ? " Or , they may have no idea and be concerned themselves , so they go and ask their superior . Thus , goal achieved , you 've alerted the flight crew :) . Either way , so long as you 're polite and do n't become insistent ( or belligerent ) that you are correct , I ca n't see any harm in just asking . And sometimes asking is what leads to a problem being solved so ... I 'd say go for it .
end question
start question
Which engine ( s ) do airliners taxi with ?
In my experience it is not " common " for air carrier aircraft to taxi with an engine shut down . It does happen of course , but there is generally a specific reason behind that procedure if used . Reasons may be : Fuel load is close to the minimum required for the flight at the start of taxi ( a variety of reasons for this ) . Long line up on the taxiway awaiting takeoff clearance . Captain discretion to save fuel . For most Air Carriers , the engines are started using air pressure from an APU ( auxiliary power unit ) affixed to the fuselage ( at the tail of the aircraft ) . The start procedures are initiated while the aircraft is being pushed back from the gate by a tug . Shortly after the aircraft is pushed back and generally aligned for taxi both engines ( twin engine aircraft in this example ) have been started and an " after start " ( or similar ) checklist has been completed . Besides the engine noise , which is sometimes quite low and hard to hear , the end of the start procedure can be noticed when the lights blink in the cabin as the electrical power generated by the APU is being replaced by the engine driven generators . Also , there is generally an increased airflow into the cabin as air from the engines is vented to the cabin by the air conditioning system . Very little air is available during engine start from the APU because the air is being used to start the engines . Anyway , this is probably a more expansive explanation than necessary for your question ( I just wanted to give some context to the process of engine start for air carrier jet aircraft ) . If the aircraft is taxied out using a single engine , the crew can either start the remaining engine at some point prior to takeoff using the APU ( if left operating ) or by cross-bleeding the engine air from the running engine to the engine now being started . If the aircraft is taxied with one of its engines not started at the gate , the crew has to run an additional checklist during the taxi as and after the engine is started . Not a big deal , but a bit more workload . Lastly , there have been occasions where problems have resulted from taxiing with one of the engines not started . For example , many years ago a B727 ( 3 engine aircraft ) started its takeoff roll with only two engines running because the crew failed to start the third engine . It crashed on takeoff . Also , there have been occasions where the aircraft was not configured properly for take off ( e.g. , engine bleed switches in the wrong position ) due to a failure to properly follow/run the appropriate checklist for starting an engine during taxi or configuring the bleed/pressurization system properly for take off . Again , taxiing with an engine not yet started does happen . But considering how many flights occur every day in the world it would be difficult to say this procedure would be anything close to common . Just my two-cents
Airbus aircraft have 3 hydraulic systems ( Green , Blue , Yellow ) . Green is pressurized by left engine , Yellow by right engine , and each one can be pressurized by the other using the PTU . In addition the Yellow circuit has an electric pump . The Blue circuit is a backup pressurized on demand by several means ( electric pump and RAT ) . Each circuit powers different aircraft components : <URL> Source : <URL> The choice of which engine ( s ) to use is based on the need to have pressure : For brakes For nose wheel steering system . Normal brakes and nose wheel steering are pressurized by the Green system . The brake accumulator must be pressurized , this can be done by running the an electric pump without starting an engine . . Engines are numbered 1 for left , 2 for right on twin-engined aircraft and from left to right ( 1/2 and then 3/4 ) for four-engined aircraft . From <URL> : Which Engine to Use ? A320 Family : ENG 1 A330 : ENG 1 A340 : Outer engines ( ENG 1 + 4 ) Why ? A320 Family : ENG 1 pressurizes GREEN HYD ( NWS + NORM BRAKE ) YELLOW HYD pressurized via ELEC PUMP PTU is not needed A330 : ENG 1 pressurizes GREEN + BLUE HYD HYD BLUE ensures ACCU PRESS ELEC PUMP are not needed A340 ( outer engines when possible -- exception would be a narrow taxiway and FOD risk ) : ENG 1 + 4 pressurize GREEN HYD ( NWS + NORM BRAKE ) Check ACCU PRESS normal before ENG start ELEC PUMP are not needed
Yes . The tail numbers are indeed places on a placard inside the cockpits of commercial airplanes . Following are some examples :
Excerpt from the FAA Publication " <URL> " : Standard taxi routes improve ground management at highdensity airports , namely those that have airline service . At these airports , typical taxiway traffic patterns used to move aircraft between gate and runway are laid out and coded . The ATC specialist ( ATCS ) can reduce radio communication time and eliminate taxi instruction misinterpretation by simply clearing the pilot to taxi via a specific , named route . An example of this would be Los Angeles International Airport ( KLAX ) , where North Route is used to transition to Runway 24L . [ Figure 1-7 ] These routes are issued by ground control , and if unable to comply , pilots must advise ground control on initial contact . If for any reason the pilot becomes uncertain as to the correct taxi route , a request should be made for progressive taxi instructions . These step-by-step routing directions are also issued if the controller deems it necessary due to traffic , closed taxiways , airport construction , etc. . It is the pilot 's responsibility to know if a particular airport has preplanned taxi routes , to be familiar with them , and to have the taxi descriptions in their possession . Specific information about airports that use coded taxiway routes is included in the Notice to Airmen Publication ( NTAP ) . NTAP can be found on : <URL> At the time of writing the KLAX North Route example can be found on page 4-SW-11 , and reads : North Route Taxi towards taxilane Sierra ( S ) taxi northbound on taxilane Sierra ( S ) , and at Check-point-1 contact Ground Control on frequency 121.65 , hold short of taxiway Delta ( D ) . Taxilane Sierra ( S ) is not visible from the ATCT There 's also <URL> regulating Standard Taxi Routes ( STR 's ) as bilateral agreements ( LOA 's - Letter of Agreement ) between each ATC unit and their users ( airlines ) . The document contains information on what the LOA needs to contain . Outside of the US , standard taxi instructions , if any , could be expected to be found in the AD-section ( Aerodromes ) of that respective country 's AIP ( Aeronautical Information Publication ) . As an airline pilot , this information might be integrated into your company 's nav data solution , ie . information about standard taxi routes available to you would be written/drawn out bundled with your airport diagrams etc. .
You have a few options , You can burn it off . Laps in the pattern are great for this . Get to the airport before you need to depart and practice some landings . This may cost you in terms of dollars but at least you are not just dumping it . You can dump it into gas cans if you have them . Every small GA plane i have ever encountered ( mostly pipers ) has fuel sumps for testing your fuel during your preflight . Most of these sumps can be latched open and you can drain it into a gas can for use later . you should always test for water before doing this . If you rent you should ask the FBO what their policies are on dumping/reusing fuel . I cant find any specific legislation on it but it seems that its common practice ( for the airlines at least ) to only put the fuel back in the same plane ( or within the same fleet ) to prevent cross contamination of things that can build up in the tanks . The sump on the pipers I fly looks like this <URL> ( <URL> ) Dont have the plane filled up . If you rent planes like many GA pilots do and you plan to take up 4 friends for an evening sight seeing flight ask the FBO to not fill the tanks if someone is using it before you . Dont use all the tanks . This will vary plane to plane but some planes have 2 or more fuel tanks which may be independently selectable . You may be able to ( weight and balance permitting ) keep some of the tanks dry if you know you regularly short hops with big loads . For the sake of a complete answer I will mention that planes can be flown over gross weight , I do n't advocate this nor would I ever attempt it but it does happen here and there , <URL> .
The first and perhaps most important thing to do is NOT turn around . Generally speaking you wo n't have the airspeed/altitude to make a full 180 and return to the field . While it can be done , it 's advised to continue forward and put the plane down as you would in any emergency . Trim for best glide and pick a landing spot ( limited options in this case ) . In some cases with small plane/long runway situations you will be able to execute something like a short field landing with the remaining runway but that is very situationally dependent . When I flew out of KPNE in a Warrior 24 was 7000ft ; if you lost an engine at rotation you had plenty of runway . At DYL where I fly now that 's not really the case . Every airport is different but a good deal of the airports I have flown out of recently have had long fields at either end of the runway giving maybe an extra 1000 ft or so . Airports in populated areas may have roads you can touch down on . You should always consult the POH of the specific aircraft in this case for proper emergency procedures . Specifically to the 152 point , the take off distance is around 1400 ft. full loaded if memory serves . Unless you are training on 2000 ft strips you should have no problem getting the plane back down with remaining runway at all but the shortest of fields . If you are only 10ft up you should be able to put the plane down fast , albeit a bit hard , but fast none the less . For what it 's worth <URL> . Once you have touched down it would be advised to retract your flaps , this will increase the load on the gear ( by reducing your wings ' effectiveness ) and increase brake effectiveness . You should take care to not lock the brakes as well . Side Story : This happened to a buddy of mine in his Archer a bunch of years back ( I 'll try to find the incident report ) . The plane was fresh out of annual and something was not hooked up correctly and shook loose on take off causing the engine to cut out around 100ft or so . There was a corn field dead ahead and he was able to put the plane down smoothly . Thankfully no one was hurt and he simply owed the farmer for the corn he took out on landing & hellip ; .
Older airliners use hydraulics and cables attached to the pilot controls . Some RATs power the hydraulics directly as well so limited control is still possible then . The pilots would get a workout but the plane would safely touch down . However planes with entirely fly-by-wire systems ( no current airliner is completely fly-by-wire ) will be completely uncontrollable apart from shifting weight and would glide to the ground . They are made stable so they wo n't just enter a spin and pancake into the ground .
Never ask a question with " ever " in it - because the answer will very rarely be no ! For example - if one pilot is training , then while they may have planned to do the landing reality might dictate that they have to hand over the controls to the instructor . I 'm sure the same will apply to type ratings or differences training - nobody is going to let you have a crack at a severe crosswind landing during your first front-seat flight in an A380 . Additionally , flying schools will often have strict crosswind limits and some may not grant you full " As Pilot Operating Handbook " privileges until you have [ x ] number of hours AFTER your test . In other words - you may have two qualified pilots , but only one of which is allowed to land the plane ! But I 'm being deliberately pedantic - I suspect you 're focussing more on commercial , multi-crew operations rather than two pilots who happen to be in one aircraft and I 'm not qualified to answer that bit ! I 'm not aware of any requirement to take seat position into account , however .
Speed was life in air combat until the jet age . The pilots who became Air Force generals in the Fifties had learned their trade in the Thirties when speed was the most-desired quality in a fighter . Naturally , the ability to be faster than any adversary was very important to them . When the requirements for new fighter aircraft were written in the Fifties , those generals made sure that a higher top speed was part of the specification . When those supersonic-capable aircraft were used in real conflicts , something very surprising and unforeseen happened : They did hardly ever fly supersonic . When the Air Force in the late Sixties accumulated the flight data from several years of Vietnam war air combat , they found that all aircraft had accumulated just minutes at Mach 1.4 and only seconds at Mach 1.6 out of more than 100,000 combat sorties ¹ . Never was even Mach 1.8 flown in aircraft which had been optimized for Mach 2.4 ( F-104 , F-105 , F-106A , F-4D / E and F-111 ) . To cite from this study why speed stayed mostly subsonic : The first of these reasons lies in the shape of the turn rate vs Mach number relationship for an aircraft . [ ... ] In combat , each pilot has the tendency to to fly his aircraft so as to maximize his turn rate . He thus gains angular position on the enemy which , in turn , may permit a missile launch or a gun firing . [ ... ] It can be seen that the pilot 's urge to maximize his turn rate will unfailingly drive his Mach number to about 0.7 . Thus , if the pilot is going to join in combat , [ ... ] his speed will inevitably drop to subsonic speeds . [ ... ] Note also , that even if the turn rate is held constant while increasing the speed , [ ... ] the turn radius and load factor increase , bringing with it increasing problems of keeping the enemy in sight . The second reason given in the study is the dramatically smaller <URL> ( the maximum distance the airplane can travel from its base , accomplish an objective and return ) once the aircraft starts to fly at supersonic speeds . Even for flying into the combat arena supersonic speed was rarely advantageous . Northrop studied a multitude of intercept cases and found that speeds above Mach 1.1 were almost never helpful because they curtailed the combat radius severely . Now you need to know that the top speed is an important driver in airframe design . Flying at Mach 2 + requires <URL> , a heat-resistant structure , high wing sweep and <URL> . This all degrades the combat qualities at high subsonic speed , which was where those aircraft were used the most . Building into them the capacity for Mach 2 + made them worse for what they were actually used for . From the late Sixties on this lesson was incorporated into the newer designs like the <URL> . Stealth again decreased the importance of supersonic capability , and the maximum sustained speed of the <URL> was actually reduced from Mach 1.8 to Mach 1.6 to reduce the heat load on the composite wing leading edge . ¹ Source : <URL> , AIAA Professional Study Series
Almost all Russian ( Soviet ) aircrafts were tested in the Zhukovsky Airfield ( Ramenskoye Airport ) near Moscow . The Comac is building a Flight Test center at Dongying , Shandong province near the Dongying Shengli Airport . The flight test of aircrafts are expected to be carried out from here . As Peter noted , Antonov test their aircrafts at Kiev Airport , including An 225 , the largest aircraft in world .
Yes , but you need <URL> . A rigid head does not have any hinges , instead , the blades flex up and down . Wings do n't know or care if they are upside down or right way up , indeed , <URL> . It only cares how much airflow there is and at what angle it hits it . Here 's an <URL> and a <URL> Perhaps the best around is <URL> Here , Dennis Kenyon shows <URL> He gets close to inverted but never actually flips over .
Lufthansa does . They actually prefer people they can train themselves , so they never learned things which Lufthansa considers bad practice . This becomes impossible if the airline grows quickly . Therefore , all the new carriers ( Etihad or Vueling , for example ) need to rely on hiring certified pilots . See <URL> ( only in German but speaking German is a requirement anyway ) . Thanks , Danny , for the link . Lufthansa has now adopted English as their corporate language , so I wonder how firm the German language requirement still is .
Aircraft are not always moved with <URL> ( the small vehicle you refer to ) . Much of the time , they operate under their own power . Airliners are generally pushed back from the gate using a tug , as that 's the simplest and most efficient method . They then taxi to the runway ( and all the way up to the gate , after landing ) using their own engines to provide thrust . This is true of both jets and propeller aircraft . Some work is being done on self-contained electric-powered ground propulsion ; one major player in this area is a company called <URL> . They use high-torque motors and the aircraft APU to allow the aircraft to move itself without starting its engines or requiring a tug to be connected and disconnected .
Indeed EASA requires " autopilot " but they do n't state it directly like " every airliner flying in the European airspace must be autopilot equipped " . They require it indirectly . When I first read your post I immediately thought of RVSM . I recall talking to an ATCO ( retired now ) about automation on board , and he told me that without autopilot you can not fly in RVSM airspace . So I had a look in <URL> and they did the dirty job for us . They mention all 3 EASA regulations , , and they have quoted the interesting parts : Regulatory Requirements [ ... ] An operator shall ensure that aeroplanes operated in RVSM airspace are equipped with :[ ... ] An automatic altitude control system Emphasis is mine . There might be other regulations requiring other automatic flight components but I am not aware of them although a quick look in the documents reveals references to auto-land systems as well so these documents cover more than RVSM . The summary is that EASA does not simply specify " you need autopilot if you fly an airliner " but they go into detail , of what they require and for what reason . Acronyms Reduced Vertical Separation Minima Air Traffic Control Officer
At a large airport , all aircraft movements are coordinated by the ATC tower on the ground frequency . Aircraft should never move without authorization from the controller . The tower will issue instructions to aircraft that might look something like this : Taxi to Gate 1 via Alpha , Alpha 1 , Lima 3 , cross runway 24 , hold short Delta . These names correspond to markings on the ground that match up with the airport taxiing maps . By talking with the pilots , the controllers are able to build up a map of where aircraft are . It also helps that they can look out the window and see the aircraft on the ground . At airports without a tower , taxiing is n't much of an issue . There are n't many planes around , and there 's generally only one runway and not many taxiways . Nevertheless , aircraft taxiing when there is no ground controller comply with " see and be seen " by looking outside and turning on aircraft lights . Furthermore , if the aircraft has a radio , it should self-announce its movements on the ground .
The Ju-87 Stuka did undergo engine change during its life . The initial Ju-87A version used the <URL> A engine , which produced 602 hp . This was almost immediately replaced with Jumo 210D , which produced around 661 hp . The first production version , the Junkers Ju-87 B-1 used a <URL> D generating 1,184 hp . Note this version had the fuselage and landing gear redesigned from 87A . The next major version , the Ju-87D , used a Jumo 211J delivering 1,401 hp , after briefly dabbling with Daimler-Benz DB 603 engines . The final operational version of Stuka , the Ju-87G , used the Jumo 211J engine . This is more or less the same path followed by other combat aircraft of the era . For example the Hawker Hurricane MkI used a Merlin III engine producing 1,310 hp , while the last major version , the MkIV used the Merlin 24 ( or 27 ) engines , producing 1,620 hp . However , the main thrust in engine change in Ju-87 was increasing the payload , rather than increased speed or maneuverability like the Hurricanes . For example , Bomb carrying ability was nearly quadrupled from 500 kg in the B-version to 1,800 kg ( max load ) in the D-version . Another reason was the aircraft design itself . It was designed to be a rigged dive bomber , and increase in speed would 've done it no good ( it is to be noted that the fixed landing gear added a lot of drag , though it was study enough to mount a cannon ) and it had limited maneuverability at the best of times when loaded ( though it had good turn performance at low altitudes ) . The airframe had reached its limit . The only reason the Stuka served till the end of the war though its limitations had become apparent by the Battle of Britan was simply because no better replacements were avilable ( though the process started in early 1940 's ) , though the <URL> took over some of the duties of Ju-87 .
There is a chance you suffer from <URL> but you should consult a physician to obtain a proper diagnosis ( Disclaimer : I am NOT a doctor ) . For what its worth commercial planes are pressurized generally to about the <URL> this equates to about .75 Atm . In the reverse case 33ft underwater already has you at 2 Atm . When I fly ( generally unpressurized ) I usually chew gum which i find helps .
It very much depends on the tail-dragger . Many vintage aircraft do n't have wheel brakes at all and steer using the rudder , which has the tail wheel or skid attached to it . On these aircraft , steering is ineffective at low speeds , just like when steering a ship with a rudder . Unlike on a ship , you can increase your steerage by adding a burst of power and using the slipstream over the rudder to push it sideways . Very experienced pilots can turn almost on the spot at very low speeds this way , but in a tricky situation it 's a judgement call whether to make a wider turn at low speed or add power and risk speeding up . For this reason it 's good to have a little extra room , to make sure you can stop completely at any point and still have room to make the turn . Dan Pichelman makes a good points in the comments . If you take a tricycle and a tail-dragger with the same turning circle , and look at the tyre marks on the ground , the tail-dragger 's marks will be much bigger . That tail wheel right at the aftermost point traces out a huge circle , while the tricycle 's wheels are very close together . For this reason , you need the whole turning circle to be free from obstacles such as edge markers and lights , while a tricycle can do a full turn with its tail overhanging any obstructions . One more taxiing issue is visibility . Tail-draggers ( again , especially earlier ones ) are nose-high on the ground , and the engine cowling tends to prevent the pilot seeing straight forward . There have been many incidents of tail-draggers taxiing right onto smaller aircraft or obstructions straight ahead of them . ( It used to be very common with Spitfires . ) To avoid this , pilots are taught to weave as they taxi , so they can always check the ground ahead by looking either side of the nose . ( Think of it like the clearing turns you make on a long climb . ) While a tricycle might go straight along a taxiway it can only just fit into , a tail-dragger wants a much wider taxiway so that it can weave like this . You also need to plan how you 're going to make the weave go into a turn when you reach a corner : if you got to the corner as you 'd weaved right over to its inside , pointing towards the outside of the corner , you 'd need much more room to make the turn . For all these reasons , while it 's entirely possible for a good pilot on a good day to make turns just as tight as a similar-sized tricycle aircraft , it 's a good idea to allow a larger unobstructed space on straights and corners if you 're expecting tail-draggers , especially students .
Most non-normal ops in an airliner follow the same concepts for light aircraft - make sure the aeroplane is under control and following the desired flight path before you do anything - which includes engaging an autopilot . So for the Boeing aircraft I fly , ensure you 've got a positive rate of climb , speed should be V2 - V2 +15 , ensure the aeroplane is in trim ( pitch first , then rudder ) and your following any prescribed engine failure routing . In terms of autopilot use , part of our company SOP is to engage the autopilot at 1000ft AAL , this is not to relieve the pilot of the responsibility of maintaining control - it wo n't control the rudder - more to reduce the immediate workload and allow more effective management of the non-normal situation . Once the autopilot is engaged the aeroplane can be accelerated , flaps retracted and any non-normal checklist completed .
There is hardly anything that ca n't be found with the help of a few friends and the Library of Congress . <URL> Pp.52-57 . Plant No. 1 ( Kuibyshev ) : Non-flyable [ what the heck is that ?? ] MiG-15 : 2 in 1949 , 4 in 1950 . 10 knock-down UTI MiG-15 kits were produced in 1951 . Plant No. 153 - Novosibirsk Plant No. 381 ( Leningrad ) : 1949 - 75 MiG-15 Plant No. 21 ( Gor ' ky ) : Plant No. 31 - Tbilisi Plant No. 126 - Komsomo ' ls ' k-NA-Amure Plant No. 292 - Saratov Plant No. 135 - Kharkiv Plant No. 99 ( Ulan-Ude ) Totals for the USSR ( may contain errors , have n't double-checked ) :
end question
start question
Would a gimbaled , always horizontal cockpit be beneficial to fighter jets ?
With enough engineering ( read , money ) , all sorts of things would be possible , but if you picture the aircraft in a hard , level turn , the g-forces would be pressing " down " relative to a conventional cockpit , but " sideways " for a cockpit that was gimbaled so the pilot was sitting upright relative to the horizon . And that would probably be a lot harder to take than the usual " down " G-forces . Resisting 9 G 's pulling your hand and forearm straight down can be done with a support for your arm ( side-stick controller ) or a bit of a ledge at the bottom of the handgrip ( side-stick or center stick ) , but keeping precise control of the aircraft with 9 G 's pulling your hand sideways might be a lot harder . Beyond that , the sideways G force would be pushing your head to the side , which probably ends up banging your helmet -- pretty hard sometimes -- against whatever restraint or canopy it meets . Something that achieves some of the goals you mention is the " Virtual Reality " helmet of the F-35 , where the pilot can essentially look through the airframe and " see " aircraft , targets , and whatnot even in places that he would n't have an actual line-of sight . That allows him to look in any direction , reacting to threats , tracking his target , and so forth . And without having to gimbal the cockpit . Although for what the F-35 's cost , that might actually be cheaper !
General rule here : the engine will remain at its last power setting should the FADECs lose comms with the flight deck controls ( in your A380 case ) or the thrust lever cables come unhooked ( in the case of an older aircraft with mechanical cable-and-pulley controls ) . However , the fire handle will kill the engine even if the main controls fail -- it operates the firewall fuel and hydraulic shutoff valves . In QF32 , this did n't happen because the cable for the # 1 engine fire handle itself was damaged by shrapnel entering the wing .
It 's not so easy . The blade length , chord and engine power are connected in complex ways , and for each desired performance there is an optimal combination of those parameters . Rotors ( and wings ) generate lift by accelerating air downwards . The lift is proportional to the rate of change of inertia of the air . This , however , also changes kinetic energy of the air and therefore requires power . This is called induced drag . Since inertia is proportional to velocity , but kinetic energy is proportional to the square of velocity , it is more efficient to accelerate a larger amount of air to a lower speed . The amount of air affected is proportional to the area of the rotor disk ( the whole area in which the blades move ) and that is simply ( $ \ pi \ times $ ) square of blade length . So in a sense the answer is easy : only blade length has effect , blade chord does not . However , increasing the blade length also increases the form and skin drag of the blades , so beyond some point the form drag will exceed the induced drag and any additional increase in blade length wo n't improve efficiency further . Even more importantly , a longer blade will be heavier and therefore will have to be stronger to withstand the centrifugal force when turning , and stiffer so it does not bend too much when not . But that will make it even heavier and you 'll reach a point where you simply exceed the capabilities of the material . And of course higher weight also means more lift is required . These effects will further reduce the optimal length of the blades . The blade chord is then a secondary parameter governed by two concerns : the chord has to be long enough so the blades can generate the necessary lift without stalling and they have to be strong enough , strength being proportional to chord times thickness . So if you want to improve load , you can try to improve efficiency , which you could do by making the blades longer , but you need to find a material with higher specific strength , otherwise the increased weight will outweigh the improved aerodynamic efficiency . If you do n't have that , you will primarily have to increase power of the engines . The optimal blade length may then be longer too , but you will be hitting the limits of the material quickly ; that 's why there are multi-rotor helicopters . If you instead meant speed , that 's a completely different issue and neither blade length nor chord play a significant role there . In forward motion , the speed of a helicopter is limited by two constraints : sufficient portion of the retreating blade has to move aft relative to the airflow and the tip of advancing blade must not exceed speed of sound ( actually , critical Mach number , which is somewhat lower ) . The first requirement means the tip speed must be around three times higher than the maximum forward speed , otherwise the retreating side of the rotor wo n't be able to generate enough lift and the aircraft will roll to that side . Together with the second parameter , it limits the speed to about a quarter of the critical Mach . There are some experimental twin rotor ( intermeshing , side-by-side ) helicopters that do n't mind the lift asymmetry and can fly somewhat faster . But it has nothing to do with blade length ; blades of larger rotor spin at lower rpm to maintain similar tip speed .
Our Flight Environment First the basics : <URL> is mainly carbon dioxide and has an average temperature of -47 ° C and an average pressure of <URL> . The speed of sound in these conditions is <URL> , the dynamic viscosity $ \ nu $ is <URL> , and for my calculations I use an atmospheric density of 0.0234 kg/m ³ . Now I owe all you early upvoters an apology . The earlier answer used an unsuitable methodology ; now I have improved the answer with different results . Operating Point Next step : The electric power supply makes a propeller the right choice , and for propeller aircraft the minimum power to sustain flight can be achieved when the lift coefficient is $ $ c_L = \ sqrt { 3 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ Lambda \ cdot \ epsilon } $ $ This makes your zero-lift drag the real sizing parameter : Make the aircraft a little more draggy , and you get punished with a big size increase . Therefore , we strive to keep the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ down to 0.008 in order to keep the aircraft small . This allows to get an idea which aspect ratio will be best : At minimum power the total drag is four times the zero-lift drag , and the lift coefficient should be as high as possible to keep the aircraft 's size small . Realistically , our flight $ c_l $ will not grow above 1.6 ( which is the best that <URL> can manage at a reasonable L/D ) , so the aspect ratio is $ $ \ Lambda = \ frac { c_l ^ 2 } { 3 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon } $ $ which yields an aspect ratio of 35.74 when $ \ epsilon $ is 0.95 . Available Power Now we can follow the procedure in <URL> to calculate power demands for your solar-electric propulsion . Solar radiation on Mars is a lot lower than on Earth , but very reliable as there are no clouds to obstruct the sun . Beware of <URL> , however ! Since you gave the Martian solar constant in your question , I will use it here : The wing will be covered to 80 % with solar cells , and each square meter of them will produce your optimistic 200 W ( 500 W radiation times 40 % efficiency ) . Per square meter of wing we can achieve 160 W , and with an electric efficiency of 96 % and a propeller efficiency of 85 % this translates into a propulsive power per square meter of 130.5 W. Matching Thrust to Drag Now we can equate the drag $ D$ and the available thrust $ T$ from the power $ P$ , like this : $ $ D = T = \ frac { P } { v } = > 4 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot \ frac { \ rho \ cdot v ^ 3 } { 2 } = 130.5 \ cdot S$ $ Luckily , wing area $ S$ can be canceled , and we get a result for the airspeed $ v $ at which the aircraft 's drag can just be supported by the power the wing can generate independent of wing area : $ $ v = \ sqrt [ 3 ] { \ frac { 130.5 } { 4 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ rho } } = 55.857 m/s $ $ Now for the real size : If we assume that the payload fraction is 25 % , the mass of the full aircraft will be 4 tons . To lift this at the dynamic pressure of 36.5 N/m ² which corresponds to the found flight speed we need a wing area of 254 m ² . This can create 40.65 kW of power , 33.17 of which are transformed into thrust . The wing span will be a whopping 95.28 m . How you get this to Mars I leave to your imagination - after all , this is just a tad less than the wingspan of the <URL> . If you can achieve a higher payload fraction , the wing will become smaller : At 30 % the full aircraft mass is only 3.333 tons , and the wing size will become 211.74 m ² large . Its wing span will be 87 m. With these dimensions I doubt that a higher payload fraction will be possible . The closest aircraft to this design was the <URL> , which had an empty mass of 3.6 tons ( with a propulsion system weighing close to the mass of Curiosity ) and a wing span of 61 m . Last Checks Mach number : 56 m/s is just Mach 0.2345 on Mars , so we should not run into compressibility effects which would limit the assumed lift coefficient . Reynolds number . The bigger wing has an average chord of 2.66 m and the smaller one still 2.43 m chord , and per meter the Reynolds number in -47 ° C cold carbon dioxide at 56 m/s is 4,900,000 - plenty enough to make the selected lift coefficient possible . Size helps here !
All airplanes can glide , if they could n't they would n't be able to fly in the first place . When you glide an aircraft you are converting height into airspeed , which you can use to move across the ground . How far you can go across the ground for height lost is called the glide ratio for the aircraft . Gliders have a very high glide ratio as their wings are designed to provide lots of lift at low speeds , fighters have a very low glide ratio as they are designed to provide lift at a much higher speed enabling the fighter to achieve high airspeeds efficiently . So a fighter will glide , it just wo n't be able to glide that far over the ground . If a fighter has enough altitude to trade for speed and a strip close enough by it can be done ( and has been done in the past ) by a skilled pilot .
Thankfully , I never had to make this choice . In my training I learned to stay in the plane and flare at the height of the treetops , then let the plane sink into the branches and have them stop and suspend the aircraft . The fuselage is quite effective as a protective shell , and up on top the branches are thin and flexible . Use the parachute only to hoist yourself down from the stricken plane , if necessary . <URL> Two-seater after landing in trees at Boberg glider port ( picture <URL> )
You could try <URL> looks like it has some good info . <URL> and have info as well . Here is an <URL> ... And here is <URL> . You may also be able to dig up some of the work that was done with them during WWII with a bit of directed searching on some public archives ( as it may be more or less public record now ) . Of course physics and engineering text books will always be of help but there may not be any pulse jet specific ones . PSA : You should take extreme caution when building and testing something like this . You will presumably be burning jet fuel ( or another comburent ) in a home made combustion chamber which can lead to very bad things . Care should always be taken when firing up an engine ( of any kinda ) for the first time . Welds should be double checked , metal choice is important and please wear safety goggles !
The fly-by-wire is absolutely vital for control of the aircraft , and the three dominating factors here are safety , safety and safety . Weight is not one of them . The fly-by-wire system is triple or quad redundant : instead of removing a set of cables , the manufacturers are installing 3 more cable looms , just to make sure that the system always works . <URL> Wires are safer than wireless ! . There are active transmitters and receivers in wireless systems , which can fail . Signal reception depends on the quality of the space between transmitter &amp; receiver : can the signal always penetrate the aluminium bulkhead ? What happens to the wireless signal when flying past airport radar or in the weather radar field of another aircraft ? Shielded wires are passive and relatively immune to electro-magnetic radiation , and are the means of choice for such a safety critical system . Update The OP was on fly-by-wire . In a sense , the flight control system is the most safety critical system on board and must be immediately available at all times . The <URL> in a comment reports on the progress of on-board wireless communication , for systems with a less critical safety aspect : Examples of Potential WAIC Applications Low Data Rate , Interior Applications ( LI ) : Sensors : Cabin Pressure - Smoke Detection - Fuel Tank/Line -- Proximity Temperature - EMI Incident Detection - Structural Health Monitoring - Humidity/Corrosion Detection Controls : Emergency Lighting - Cabin Functions Low Data Rate , Outside Applications ( LO ) : Sensors : Ice Detection - Landing Gear Position Feedback - Brake Temperature - Tire Pressure - Wheel Speed - Steering Feedback - Flight Controls Position Feedback - Door Sensors Engine Sensors - Structural Sensors High Data Rate , Interior Applications ( HI ) : Sensors : Air Data - Engine Prognostic - Flight Deck/Cabin Crew Images/Video Comm. : Avionics Communications Bus - FADEC Aircraft Interface - Flight Deck/Cabin Crew Audio / Video ( safety-related ) High Data Rate , Outside Applications ( HO ) : Sensors : Structural Health Monitoring Controls : Active Vibration Control <URL> From the same presentation : An A380 has 5,700 kg of wires on board , and 30 % of them are potential candidates for a wireless substitute . So wireless communication on board of aircraft does make sense , starting with the non-safety critical systems first .
Over Europe and many other parts of the world , the general rule is that if an aircraft in controlled airspace does not reply to instructions from Air Traffic Control , military jets will be scrambled to intercept the aircraft . Basically you are asking if there are exceptions to that rule . I think there are a few . First of all , ATC will not inform the military of every instruction that is not reacted to ; there would n't be enough jets . Pilots do miss instructions occasionally , sometimes aircraft are handed of to the wrong frequency by ATC , wrong frequencies are entered into the radio etc. . All these things usually sort themselves out in matter of minutes and it would be a waste of resources to scramble . If no contact is established after a certain amount of time , only then the military will be involved . However if an aircraft starts to deviate from earlier acknowledged instructions without reacting on the radio , it is safe to assume that the time to alert the military is considerably shorter . And then of course the aircraft must be in range of military jets . An aircraft halfway across the Atlantic is simply too far out for most interceptors so until the aircraft is getting closer to shore I do n't think there is much reason to scramble jets . Some more information about loss of communications , causes and prevention can be found in this <URL> . For obvious reasons the exact procedures for scrambling military aircraft are not publicly available .
The guns of modern fighter jets are fixed to the airframe -- they ca n't be moved in any direction ; the pilot has to maneuver the aircraft to bring the guns to bear . The image shows the mounting of General Electric M61A1 Vulcan cannon in an F-16 . <URL> Gun installation in F-16 ; image from <URL> The pilot aims the guns using an optical representation in the Heads-Up Display ( HUD ) . Some of the aircraft use the <URL> where : ... a prediction angle is continually computed and displayed on the Heads Up Display ( HUD ) as a reticle offset from a fixed reference on the gunsight . ... ( which ) accounts for ballistic curvature , own motion , and predicted target motion . Basically , it shows where the shells will pass through at a certain distance . Some aircraft use <URL> . It basically shows a pair of lines which the cannon shells will follow - the lines moves as the aircraft maneuvers , showing the effect of the maneuver on the flight path ( of the shell ) . The correct ' solution ' exists when the wingtips of the target touches the funnel lines . <URL> EEGS ; image from <URL>
<URL> describes considerations for choosing sunglasses for pilots . Since the document concludes , that Polarized sunglasses are not recommended I presume there is no rule that would explicitly forbid it . However there is always the " operate aircraft careless and reckless manner " paragraph and if you badly screwed up while wearing such sunglasses and there was grounded belief that some of the disadvantages of such sunglasses contributed to the incident , you could be charged with that . The document quotes following reasons why they are not recommended : may reduce or eliminate visibility of instruments with polarization-based anti-glare filters , may reduce or eliminate visibility of LCD instruments ( LCDs emit polarized light by design ) , may interfere with visibility through an aircraft windscreen by enhancing striations in laminated materials , may mask the sparkle of light that reflects off shiny surfaces such as another aircraft 's wing or windscreen , which can reduce the time a pilot has to react in a " see-and-avoid " traffic situation . Even if your plane does not have any instruments with polarization filters and no issues with striations in laminated windshield , filtering reflections from other aircraft is definitely not what you want . Note that in most other situations , filtering reflections ( from water , cars , metal roofs etc. ) is desirable and is why polarized glasses exist , because reflections from close objects can be blinding . But in aircraft you are far from the sources of reflection , so the risk of blinding reflection is low , while the reflections can alert you to presence of other aircraft that might otherwise be hard to spot when looking towards the sun .
Ex-Royal Air Force helicopter force here , spent a lot of time around Chinooks . I think the main answer is " because I can " , but I can think of a legitimate combat use . You are heavy , and forced to land downwind into a narrow strip because there is a hazard on the upwind side of the landing zone . There is not enough room to turn around . You could hover taxi backwards like this to pick up some inflow into the rotors from the relative airflow ( and therefore increased lift ) , then climb away backwards until you do have enough room to transition into normal forward flight , more or less as shown in the video . This is where team work kicks in - you 've really got to trust your load master who is telling you exactly where you are . Never seen it done though .
The philosophy of fighter cabin pressurization is different from that of the passenger aircraft . In case of airliners , the cabin pressure decreases while the aircraft climbs upto a certain altitude , after which the value is kept constant ( usually at 6000 - 8000 ft cabin altitude ) . In case of combat aircraft , <URL> . The cockpit pressure is maintained at certain value to a particular altitude ( usually 8k feet ) ; then the pressure is maintained ( at 8k ft ) till the aircraft reaches another altitude ( ~ 23k feet ) ; after that a pressure differential ( ~ 5 psi ) is maintained between the cockpit pressure and the ambient pressure . This reduces stress on the airframe and is safer in case of rapid decompression during combat . So , a fighter cockpit at 40k feet is actually stressed less ( due to pressurization ) compared to an airliner at that altitude . There is another thing to be noted - a combat aircraft is designed for much higher loads compared to a civilian airliner ; so , the structure is capable of taking more stresses . So , pressurization is not the limiting factor in case of combat aircraft . One way of calculating the life of fighter aircraft is to apply loads on the airframe depending on the expected mission profile ( like TO - cruise - loiter - cruise - landing ) , then calculate the theoretical life based on how long the airframe survived . Of course , this means that the life will change if the mission changes - like what happened when some aircraft were shifted from high level bombing to low level penetration roles .
Forward flight is much more efficient than hovering . As airspeed builds , lift increases from " translational " lift as the air moves more horizontally over the disc . Since the relative airflow is more horizontal , the angle of attack for a given pitch angle is increased . The vortices and turbulence move behind and down from the helicopter so undisturbed air is drawn over the disc to be accelerated downwards to produce lift . Lift is more efficiently produced by accelerating a large mass by a small amount rather than a small mass by a large amount . It is more efficient to remain in ground effect and slowly increase speed to gain translational lift than to increase power to HOGE ( Hover Out of Ground Effect ) and attempt to translate . The problems you refer to are where an unwary pilot attempts to transition from HOGE whilst allowing the aircraft to climb or attempting to maintain height . Without enough power , the loss of ground effect before the benefits of translational lift are gained will result in a rapid descent back to earth ( as vortex ring state or settling with power is pretty much impossible to avoid ) or you overpitch and drag the RRPM ( rotor RPM ) down so low that you can not produce lift or even worse , stall the blades . Bottom line , it takes more power to establish positive climb out of ground effect than to gain translational lift in ground effect .
No , rocket missiles are recoil-less weapons . When firing a gun , the charge burns inside the chamber and the generated gasses do not escape before the shell leaves the barrel , so the reaction force is transferred to the body of the gun . When firing a rocket missile however there is open space behind he missile and the reaction force only accelerates the generated gasses that are ejected off the back and does not affect the launching platform significantly . This is true for missiles launched from tube ( like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> ) , off a rail like the wing-tip sidewinders or from free fall like most of the heavier air-launched rockets . The lack of recoil is an important advantage of rockets . Bazooka can be fired from shoulder while anti-tank gun with comparable explosive charge is heavy device and needs good support to handle the recoil . On the other hand rockets need more propellant than comparable gun shells , because the generated gasses leaving at high speed carry away a lot of kinetic energy most of which would be available for the shell in a gun .
I would n't worry to much about the mass of the engine . That 's actually not the biggest problem . Instead , I 'd be scared far more by the angular momentum . That turbine has a large moment of inertia and also a higher angular velocity.To flip it , you have to reverse the angular velocity . It 's essentially flipping a gyroscope , but this is a gyroscope weighing several tons .
I assume that you 're asking about piston engine light aircraft , so we can ignore gliders and electric engines for now . The basic point is that they 're all loud . <URL> compared a Cessna 172 ( single engine ) and a Piper Seminole ( twin engine ) and found that the average cabin noise was around 86 <URL> , with no huge difference between the two aircraft . There 's more analysis of a Seminole <URL> . The FAA <URL> that a light aircraft cabin is in the range of 70-90dB and <URL> measured 92-98dB in different Cirrus models . <URL> in the US <URL> ear protection and other measures for workers if the noise in their environment is 85dB or more . Since decibels are on a logarithmic scale , the difference between 86dB and 98dB is large . But I searched a few aviation forums and there 's very little discussion of cabin noise in light singles apart from a few subjective remarks . I could n't find any good sources that said one aircraft type is well known as being noisier or quieter than average . The only consistent comment is that helicopters are louder than fixed-wing aircraft , which is also shown in the FAA document linked above . Having said that , there are quite a few articles online about soundproofing aircraft in different ways . <URL> quotes the example of a jet : Aero Sound Shield is currently soundproofing a particularly large corporate jet - a converted McDonnell-Douglas MD-87 - for a Las Vegas hotel owner who is almost totally blind and who has compensated by developing extremely sensitive hearing . " He wants a 60-dB airplane , which is quieter than a Lexus , " Nelson points out . But the same article makes the point that modifying any aircraft to add soundproofing increases the weight to a point that makes the aircraft much less useful : Unfortunately , your airplane and mine ca n't accept the mass and weight of MD-87 measures . " I rode one time in a Piper Arrow that was very quiet , " Nelson recalls , " but it was completely lead-lined . It could carry two people and half a load of fuel . That was fine for that guy , because that 's all he ever wanted to carry , but it was n't very practical . " Furthermore , it 's worth remembering that modern noise-cancelling headsets are very good so the problem of noise ( as opposed to vibration , which is also a factor for fatigue and health ) has been more or less solved for most people . Even if you spend $ 1000 or more on a high-end ANR headset , that 's a minor cost compared to altering the aircraft structure or materials and you still have full performance and useful load . I guess that for most GA pilots that 's the decisive factor .
According to <URL> , the total length of the horizontal stabilizer on a 737-800 is 47 ft 1 in .
Just to roll around on " unimproved " airfields ( grass/dirt/gravel strips ) , the biggest thing planes need is simply a decent set of tires : <URL> This MiG-29UN trainer shows off the fairly beefy main tires put on these planes specifically to allow them to more easily roll over minor imperfections in the runway/taxiway surface , including dirt/gravel/grass strips ( though here it 's landing on a traditional asphalt/concrete surface ) . Compare these to the relatively small gear wheels and low-aspect rubber on the similarly-sized F-16 : <URL> Now , your question oversimplifies things , because " foreign object debris " or FOD is in fact a primary danger of unpaved airstrips for jets , and this danger has to be accounted for in the design . Here 's the main reason the MiG-29 can take off from dirt : <URL> <URL> MiG-29s and similarly-minded Su-27s , and their variants , have special doors to close off the lower intakes normally used in flight , instead drawing in air through the gill-like ports over the top of the wing strakes . This prevents the engine from ingesting dust , rocks , birds , rodents , etc on takeoff and landing . This engine protection system , while effective , adds mechanical complexity and weight which U.S. designers and military brass have generally thought unnecessary given that requirements rarely include the ability to operate from unimproved strips . Most U.S. fighters in the jet age , therefore , have had to operate from airbases with some form of paved runway surface ( and the U.S. military actually has higher standards for runway surface quality than most international airports ) . The U.S. arsenal does , however , have several aircraft that are specifically designed to operate from rudimentary airstrips at forward bases . These designs avoid FOD damage primarily by keeping the engines up as high as the design will allow . For instance , the A-10 's two engines are on pods angled up on the fuselage between the wings and tail for a variety of reasons including FOD avoidance : <URL> Most of the other designs in the Western arsenal that can do this are high-wing designs with wing-mounted engines , which keep them out of the dust produced by takeoff and landing in a similar fashion . Here are a C-130 and C-17 landing at an Afghanistan forward base : <URL> <URL> The Harrier is a notable exception to this general strategy by Western designers of just keeping the engines out of any debris cloud . While it 's probably not done routinely , a Harrier can set down just about anywhere , and as this picture shows , it ingests no small amount of dust in the process : <URL>
Checklists can be in any language . For general aviation I 've seen check-lists in a variety of languages . Sometimes in the local language and sometimes in English - that 's in Germany , Spain and Sweden . Spain in particular seemed to have everything in Spanish . From colleagues I 've heard that France is similar , most GA check-lists are in French . For commercial aviation it varies by airline . Air France , for instance , publishes its check-lists in French ( an example of these can be seen in the <URL> )
end question
start question
How can a pilot anticipate cloud formation ?
Clouds can be formed in many different ways . Before we go through them , we need to establish some basic facts . Clouds are made up of liquid water , or solid ice . Clouds are not water vapour ; water is a gas , and is invisible . Once more , because this is important : clouds are liquid water , not water vapour . Water droplets in clouds are extremely small . Clouds are visible because light is scattered in these droplets . The water droplets can stay suspended in the sky due to friction and air currents . In order for water vapour to condense into liquid water droplets , to form clouds , condensation nuclei must be present . This can be tiny particles of dust or other impurities around which water droplets can form . This is where the idea of human cloud generation comes form - by adding condensation nuclei to the atmosphere , clouds are more likely to form . A mass of air can contain a certain amount of water vapour ( = gas ) . The maximum amount depends on several factors , of which the most important one is temperature . Cold air can contain less water vapour than warm air . If more water vapour is present than the air can contain , the water has to condense ( the opposite of evaporate ) , to form water droplets - clouds . So , how are clouds formed then ? By adding moisture Air can only contain a certain amount of water vapour . If we try to add more water vapour to the air , it " wo n't fit " . As a result , the water vapour will condense , forming visible water droplets - clouds . This can happen over a surface of water during a warm day , when surface water evaporates . The air wo n't be able to absorb the evaporated water , so instead it has to become liquid . Cooling from below ( advection ) Warm air can contain more water vapour than cold air . When a warm , moist airmass moves over a cold surface , the temperature of the air will drop . When reaching a certain temperature , the air becomes saturated - it contains exactly as much water vapour as it possible can . We call this temperature the dew point . If the air is cooled further , some of the water vapour in the air has to condense into water droplets . Imagine squeezing a saturated sponge - the water has to come out . Adiabatic cooling ( convection ) On a sunny day , the sun will heat up the surface of the earth . Because the surface is not uniform , it will heat up at different rates . A sandy field will get much warmer than a wet area , for example . The air directly above such hot areas will also be heated up , by radiation from the surface . Hot air has a lower density than cold air , so at some point it will start to rise ( " heat rises " ) . As this warm bubble of air rises , it will start to expand . This is because pressure drops with altitude . As the air expands , it will cool off . Now we 're back at the basic principle that cold air can hold less water vapour than hot air . As our bubble of air rises , and cools down , at some point , it will reach the dew point , and a cloud will form . The adiabatic lapse rate is the rate at which a bubble of rising air will cool off with altitude . Rising air will cool with approximately 3 degrees C per 1,000 ft of altitude gain ( dry adiabatic lapse rate - DALR ) , simply because it expands as a result of the lower pressure . When air starts to condense , and a cloud forms , this process releases latent heat . Simply put , it took energy to make the water evaporate , and this energy is released again when the water condenses . This means that once our bubble of rising air reaches the dew point , and a cloud starts to form , it will actually cool off slower . The saturated adiabatic lapse rate ( SALR ) is approximately 1.5 degrees C per 1,000 ft. Now , for how long will our bubble of air keep rising ? It will keep rising as long as the air surrounding it is cooler than itself . The general temperature of the atmosphere at a given location is known as the enviromental lapse rate - ELR or ELT . As long as the DALR is less than the ELR up to the dew point , rising air will form clouds . Frontal lifting A warm front is when a mass of warm air moves forwards , displacing a mass of colder air . Since warm air has a lower density than cold air , when the two air masses meet , the warm air will be forced upwards , above the cold air . This causes the air to expand , and cool . As this happens , the air might reach the dew point , and clouds will be formed . Orographic lift Orographic lift is quite similar to frontal lift . Instead of being forced up by cold air below , an air mass is forced upwards by terrain ( i.e. wind blowing towards a mountain ) . Then it 's the same old story - the air rises , expands , cools and water vapour condenses . Turbulence and convergence Mechanical turbulence , for example due to rough terrain , can cause vertical movements in the atmosphere . If these are large enough , air can be forced upwards , which , as we now know , will form a cloud . Convergence is when two air masses move towards each other , creating a vertical stream of air in the middle . This column of air moves upwards , an
Glider PPL will suffice , did it yesterday and three or four times in the past three months . That 's me in the front seat preparing to take a co-worker for her first glider ride in a <URL> : <URL>
I would treat an active SOS signal from the ground the same way I would treat an ELT signal on 121.5 : Contact ATC ( or Flight Service if you 're not sure what ATC frequency to use ) and inform them of the event . As with reporting an ELT you should be prepared to tell ATC : What kind of signal you 've observed ( ELT , signal light , signal mirror , " SOS " or " HELP " spelled out with rocks ... ) The time you observed the signal ( Ideally you 'll report it while overhead &amp; actively monitoring it ) Your location and altitude Ideally you 'll be able to give your location as a GPS fix <URL> . If that 's not possible there are other options , in roughly-descending order of accuracy : A DME fix ( radial &amp; DME distance ) A VOR fix ( the intersection of two radials from separate stations ) A VOR radial &amp; visual landmark ( ideally something on the sectional chart ) While just a radial is not very useful it can be helpful in conjunction with a landmark : " South side of Mt. Greylock , on the 350 radial off Chester VOR " helps narrow down the search area considerably . A visual landmark based on the sectional chart . ATC may also ask you to circle the distress signal and ident in order to get a radar fix to supplement any of the above .
Yes . <URL> covers this ( my emphasis ) : ( b ) Required pilot certificate for operating a foreign-registered aircraft within the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of foreign registry within the United States , unless -- ( 1 ) That person 's pilot certificate or document issued under § 61.29 ( e ) is in that person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate ; and ( 2 ) Has been issued in accordance with this part , or has been issued or validated by the country in which the aircraft is registered . So a US license ( i.e. one issued under part 61 ) is allowed as an alternative to a foreign license for operating the foreign aircraft . The other country could have rules on this too , but I have no idea if they would be enforceable ( obviously , one country 's laws are usually not valid in another one ) .
After looking through the FAR 's , the answer is no , the rear passenger seat can not be occupied by somebody claiming to be a " safety pilot " . <URL> : ( c ) No person may operate a civil aircraft in simulated instrument flight unless -- ( 1 ) The other control seat is occupied by a safety pilot who possesses at least a private pilot certificate with category and class ratings appropriate to the aircraft being flown . ( 2 ) The safety pilot has adequate vision forward and to each side of the aircraft , or a competent observer in the aircraft adequately supplements the vision of the safety pilot ; and ( Emphasis Mine ) So the safety pilot basically has to be able to access the controls and have vision that supplements the pilot , meaning must be able to see as well as the pilot position would .
If you are asking if a plane can be taken from the gate all the way to the sky by auto-pilot I 'm quite certain the answer is no . Not because a plane ca n't configure itself for take off and power up the engines ( I 'm quite certain it can , though I would defer to more knowledgeable people for that ) . Not for that reason , but rather because there is no system in place to electronically guide an aircraft through a series of taxiways all the way to the base of the runway so that it can line up to take off in the first place . Keep in mind , ATC gives a lot of instructions for ground operations , funnelling aircraft this way and that via taxiway A through Z. They 'd have no way of telling an auto-pilot about these directions , there 's no computer to send out signals and there is no voice recognition build into the plane . If you told the pilots , they would have no way to input the instructions into the autopilot , nor would the autopilot know what to do if it ever received such instructions . It just is n't designed to follow taxiways . Also , beyond just taxiway layout , there are a lot of planes in close proximity on the ground , plus bunches of other important vehicles ( fire trucks , fuel trucks , de-icers , etc. ) Steering around all of those , faultlessly , would be quite the feat . We 've only just gotten to the point where <URL> , I think a plane navigating an airport ( and doing it while minding ATC ) is a bit of a ways off . EDIT : Raidri 's video does a much better job of <URL> and his comment is correct . I did underestimate how good the systems are these days . That being said , I 'm not changing my answer . There still , currently , is no way to convey ATC instructions to the aircraft . As a point of clarification : I saw the question as asking about technology in it 's current state . Will we eventually be able to do this . Heck yes , absolutely . A great deal of the technology is in place and what 's left is either right on the horizon or close to it . FAA clearance will probably take some time , but we 'll get there . I was mainly answer the question from the perspective of modern tech and what is currently ready to be installed on a plane .
Nope , pilots do not use autopilot to fly in formation . An autopilot can not achieve the precision required for flying formation ( e.g. keep the wingtip aligned to that door ) . Usage of autopilot would also hinder responses when an immediate correction is necessary . You may refer to the TV episode Jet Stream and Blue Angle training videos on the internet . From the pilot 's perspective , the planes are always moving around , though in a confined space . Continuous small adjustment is necessary . From the ground , the small floating can not be noticed visually because the observer is too far away . P.S. Based on my 17 years of experience with PC flight simulator , flying in formation in multiplayer is definitely doable , and can become second nature with practice .
My question is , when there 's no defined cloud layer , what is considered " cloud " and what is n't ? If the minima require you to stay 500 feet below clouds , where exactly is that ? With metars showing no ceiling how do you know where it is safe to fly and where there might be an ifr flight descending that ca n't see you ? The FAA defines clouds in AC-006B A cloud is a visible aggregate of minute water droplets and/or ice particles in the atmosphere above the Earth 's surface . Fog differs from cloud only in that the base of fog is at the Earth 's surface while clouds are above the surface . Clouds are like signposts in the sky that provide information on air motion , stability , and moisture . Clouds help pilots visualize weather conditions and potential weather hazards . However legally and practically speaking you can fly as high as you like if there are no clouds provided you can maintain situational awareness and proper cloud clearances from any adjacent clouds ( <URL> ) . There are a few practical limits to this . First off Class A airspace starts at FL180 so you cant fly above 18,000 Ft. without being on an IFR flight plan since you cant fly VFR into class A. Further more , since you seem to be asking about small aircraft , you will more than likely be limited by your airframes maximum altitude before hitting the Class A limit . You will also need O2 onboard to fly above 12,500 ft. The risk of a descending aircraft above you is always a concern be it VFR or IFR flying as they generally cant see below them and you cant always see above you when flying . In many cases the IFR flight will have some help from ATC who will see you on radar even if you are flying VFR and squawking 1200 on your transponder .
The size of the bomber formations ( bombers streams ) varied significantly depending on the number of bombers , the time , location and other things . The most common figure quoted figure is around 70 miles long and 5-6 miles wide ( for ~ 500-600 bombers ) . However , the formation 's footprint depended on a number of factors ranging from the navigator 's skill to the wind in that area . The figures vary wildly . For example , from the book <URL> : The stream of more than one thousand Eighth Air Force bombers , from one end to another was 360 miles long . ... on ... February 3 , 1945 , when the first flying fortresses reached Berlin , the last bomber was over the Zuiderzee in Holland . This extreme length is a consequence of the situation late in the war , where allied air armada roamed European skies without bothering much about the Luftwaffe . The time spent over the target , on the other hand was quite small - ... each Fortress crew would spend only between thirty and sixty seconds over the center of Berlin itself ... Note that there was no such thing as precision bombing in WWII ( except for some special cases ) , though the accuracy did improve over the war . Of course , some of this was due to the way the ' target ' was designated - anywhere 1000 ' of the aiming point was good enough . From <URL> : Conventionally the air forces designated as " the target area " a circle having a radius of 1000 feet around the aiming point of attack . While accuracy improved during the war , Survey studies show that , in the over-all , only about 20 % of the bombs aimed at precision targets fell within this target area . A peak accuracy of 70 % was reached for the month of February 1945 . Accuracy of RAF night bombing improved from ~ 20 % in 1942 to > 90 % in 1945 . Of course , the British target was comparatively larger - anything within a 3 miles radius of the aiming point was a ' hit ' .
Typically , the checklists in normal operations are : External walk around and preflight Before start Before taxi Before take-off After take-off Cruise Descent Approach Landing Shutdown Secure This list is pretty much the same for all aircraft . Normally , each checklist is only used once at the appropriate time but a wise pilot would re-run a checklist if interrrupted . For example , you are cleared to start and complete the before start checklist but there is then an unexpected delay before you actually start . You wait for 30 minutes . No need to redo the before start checklist because you did it earlier ? No , do it again . Something might have changed .
The rules for safety pilots are spelled out in 91.109 c but do n't specifically state how the safety pilot should log the hours . However , the common consensus I 've heard from friends is that you can indeed log safety pilot time as PIC time . The <URL> Flight Training magazine had an article about this actually . Here is what they said : What is implied but not specifically stated in the regulation is important . Because safety pilots are responsible for determining the safety of the flight , they can log their right-seat time when the left seat pilot is wearing a view-limiting device as PIC time . This transforms time spent serving as a safety pilot into a truly valuable educational experience that will also expand the flight time totals in your logbook Edit : I did some more research into this . PIC time is defined in Part <URL> . Safety pilots can qualify as PIC under bullet iii : ( iii ) When the pilot , except for a holder of a sport or recreational pilot certificate , acts as pilot in command of an aircraft for which more than one pilot is required under the type certification of the aircraft or the regulations under which the flight is conducted There are some other things to be aware of when logging PIC time as a safety pilot ( in addition to the requirements of 91.109 c ) : The two pilots must agree that the safety pilot is the acting PIC . PIC time may be logged only while the other pilot is " under-the-hood . " If something goes wrong you are the one that will be held responsible . I wouldnt take the responsibility lightly . The pilot logging instrument time must record the safety pilots name in their logbook under 61.51 ( g ) ( 3 )
<URL> lists renewal requirements for flight instructors . If your CFI certificate is still valid ( unexpired ) than you can renew by any one of the following : Getting a new rating on your CFI certificate or re-taking a practical test for an existing rating on your CFI certificate ( 1 ) Passing a practical test for -- ( i ) One of the ratings listed on the current flight instructor certificate ; or ( ii ) An additional flight instructor rating ; or Having had at least 5 students in the last 2 years with an 80 % or higher pass rate ( i ) A record of training students showing that , during the preceding 24 calendar months , the flight instructor has endorsed at least 5 students for a practical test for a certificate or rating and at least 80 percent of those students passed that test on the first attempt . Being a check pilot , chief flight instructor , check airman or flight instructor for a part 121 or 135 operation and active in pilot evaluation during the last 2 years ( ii ) A record showing that , within the preceding 24 calendar months , the flight instructor has served as a company check pilot , chief flight instructor , company check airman , or flight instructor in a part 121 or part 135 operation , or in a position involving the regular evaluation of pilots . Completing an approved refresher course within the preceding 3 months ( iii ) A graduation certificate showing that , within the preceding 3 calendar months , the person has successfully completed an approved flight instructor refresher course consisting of ground training or flight training , or a combination of both . Passing a US armed forces military instructor proficiency check in the preceding 12 months . ( iv ) A record showing that , within the preceding 12 months from the month of application , the flight instructor passed an official U.S. Armed Forces military instructor pilot proficiency check . If you are not actively instructing and just maintaining your certificate the easiest method is the approved refresher course . There are a few weekend workshops and a online courses that are approved . The last time I did this method I used an online course and submitted the 8710 via IACRA and completed the whole thing over a weekend and with no physical paperwork . If your certificate has expired , even if you have completed the above but failed to submit the proper paperwork in time , then you can no longer do this the easy way and have to look at <URL> . To reinstate an expired certificate you must either pass a practical test for one of your existing CFI ratings or pass a practical test for a new rating for your CFI certificate .
Yes...kind-of . There was <URL> which would allow you to program Garmin GPS systems ( GNS 430/530 ) , which was FAA-approved by STC for a good number of light General Aviation aircraft . While it was not capable of flying the plane by voice instruction it could be used to program a route into the GPS , which a coupled autopilot would then be able to fly . The VoiceFlight product has been discontinued as competition from the newer GTN 650/750 ( which require less knob-twiddling to program a route ) and other technologies like <URL> ate into the company 's business to the point where it was no longer viable to remain in business , but the core idea of voice technology in the cockpit has been proven possible ( and according folks who tried it , even practical ) . It may make another appearance some day .
Generally speaking a pilot can ( physically ) do whatever they want : ATC does n't have a remote control . If you push the throttles forward and pull back on the yoke you will take off , no matter what mean things the folks in the tower are shouting at you over the radio . Practically speaking doing so can get you into trouble : You may be met in the air by planes with more guns than yours , or projectiles from the ground may be fired in such a way as to intersect your flight path ( " You might get intercepted or shot down by very annoyed military types . " ) -- even if that does n't happen you may face administrative or civil action for ignoring ATC instructions in the jurisdiction where you did this . I 'm not sure what the ATC policies are in Turkey , but the US FAA has a phrase specifically for this : ( you 'll find it in <URL> ) . The emergency authority of a pilot is also recognized worldwide ( at least in ICAO states - you 'll find it in Annex 2 , 2.3.1 , conveniently quoted <URL> ) , so if the pilot in command deems that remaining on the ground constitutes an emergency they can violate regulations to the extent necessary to meet the emergency ( i.e. forego getting a clearance and take off even if ATC is saying not to ) .
This is based on knowledge and a little experience . I have flown a Wessex to a hover and they are big , heavy , powerful beasts . If your example our good friend Simon refers to me , then I must also state that I only have about 130 hours so limited hours is more accurate :) It is said that if you can fly one helicopter , then you can fly another . Indeed , I learned on the R22 and it 's a " fact " ( insofar as if enough people repeat something enough times , it becomes a " fact " ) that if you can fly the R22 , then you can fly anything because it demands careful handling and has very small power margins . I have never heard a really experienced pilot refute that . If we assume that you have enough fuel and that there is no complex fuel system which requires switching of pumps to keep the engines fed , then yes , you could land anything with one notable exception . Nearly all helicopters have a couple , either manual or automatic , between the demand for power ( how much pitch you are asking for ) and the engine power output . Raise the collective and the throttle is automatically opened and vice-versa . This is certainly true about transport category aircraft . On something like early Hilliers , I would need to learn pretty fast that as I increase pitch , I must roll on throttle otherwise , I will stall when I try to climb or raise the lever to come into the hover . This is practised during PPL but I must admit , I 've never used manual throttle control since I got my license . Another area of concern would be over controlling but that 's easy to deal with . I am now thrust into the pilots seat of a type I do n't know and I am not licensed for . I am going to land on the nearest safe spot . I 'm not going to do anything fancy whatsoever so , if I need a descent , I will lower the lever gently and use the cyclic to maintain my speed . Then I 'll climb a little by gently raising the cyclic until I start to climb . All helicopters fly nicely at about 60 kts so I will pitch for that speed . The only thing I need to look at to ensure the limits are n't busted is airspeed . Any helicopter pilot would get the feel of this in very little time as would any fixed wing pilot . It 's just a question of how heavy the controls are and how much they physically need to move but that 's quickly explored by starting gently and using just enough to do what you need to do . Let 's assume that the subject craft does have automatic throttle control . I will also assume that we are in VMC otherwise , we are all going to die . There are only two other areas of concern that I can think of and that 's the type of the landing gear ( skids vs wheels and how many ) and the height of your seat above the ground . One major difference between rotaries and fixed wing is that there is no stall speed and all helicopters can land with the same forward speed and rate of descent . I can , if I want to , bring the craft to a hover and stop to have a good think about what comes next . To come into a hover is also easy . You can do it by the numbers but the practical way is to keep your speed over the ground so that the site picture is apparently a fast walking speed and keep the landing spot in the centre of the window . if the landing spot moves up , decrease your rate of descent and vice-versa . Do this , and you will arrive close to the spot at a sensible speed and with a low rate of descent . Vortex ring state wo n't be a concern for me . I wo n't know at which speed I will lose translational lift but it will be somewhere between 10 and 15 kt , so I 'll be waiting for that little shudder to start and the nose to swing a little , ready to bring in power and pedal . I believe that most , perhaps all , wheeled transport helicopters have wheel brakes , but I will have no clue how use these . So , I am going to land zero-zero and ensure that I am directly into wind and on a level surface . The next think is how will I know when I 've landed ? When I first landed a B206 , it was on my conversion course so I already knew how to land smoothly . All I had to do to deal with the extra height I was sitting above the ground was " feel " the aircraft down . It can be surprisingly difficult to know when a helicopter is fully on the ground and not flying it all the way down is one way to get into trouble . I would deal with this by feeling for the first contact and then smoothly , but not too quickly , lowering the lever . This does two things . It ensures a firm contact and removes my biggest landing worry in an unfamiliar type which is dynamic rollover . It wo n't be pretty and I might even get a blade strike somewhere but with power now off , we 'll all walk away . So in summary , I would n't need any assistance but , if I can figure out where the transmit button is and how to tune the radio , I will try to get some anyway .
I just saw BowlOfRed 's comment , and listened to it again and I could make it out this time as " Tug 1 and Company " . So , basically , when used with vehicles , using " and company " will often indicate that there 's more than one vehicle in the group ( or possibly aircraft in tow ) , and whoever 's being addressed is in charge of talking for them . Just like when a flight of aircraft is flying or taxing , whoever 's talking for the flight , that callsign is used for the whole group . For other examples of " and company " : During snowplow operations , usually you 'll just have 1 driver in a group talking to Ground/Tower for that group , and they 're also in charge of reporting when all their group is clear of runways or other movement areas . Other times , it 's when airport operations is escorting ( via vehicle ) other vehicles on the airport , from survey crews to construction crews .
Generally speaking1 , when an aircraft is allowed/ready to leave ( deliberately not using the word depart ) the gate , things proceed in the following fashion : The pilots are in contact with <URL> , and when the aircraft is ready to leave , Ground approves that they can leave the gate . The pilots asks <URL> that the <URL> can start . Pilots are in contact with a designated personal from groundcrew ( see picture below ) . Pushback tractor/tug will start moving the aircraft away from gates , onto the place where aircraft will be ready to move on its own . During the pushback , aircraft 's engines are started2 . Pilots inform tug driver/designated person from groundcrew which direction the aircraft needs to be facing at the conclusion of pushback . When aircraft is ready to roll towards its assigned taxi instructions , <URL> signals the pilots that aircraft is in the requested position and pushback tug is about to be detached . After the tug is disconnected , the designated groundcrew personal communicating with pilots , informs the pilots and disconnects his headset . The marshaller signals ( after moving away from the aircraft ) the pilots that the aircraft is ready to proceed on its taxi route . Pilots confirm and acknowledge this last signal , and aircraft starts to taxi . I have <URL> for the above mentioned activities . Although , I have always seen that a person from groundcrew attaches a headset near the nose gear of the aircraft ( picture below ) to communicate with the pilot . <URL> <URL> Please see the cable connecting the headset with the aircraft , near the nose gear . You can not follow the entire cable though . 1 : This is what a typical scenario looks like . Although , there can be great variations . 2 : Engines are not started near the gate as there is groundcrew servicing the airplane and to avoid damages to close-by structures .
The major ways : Run really fast into the wind at minimum angle of attack and then pull up a bit , and you 'll get a little lift that you might then use to find a thermal . This is very location-dependent , and you 're unlikely to fly very long at a stretch . Get a tow from a car or a powered plane like a sailplane would . A car limits your altitude , but is cheap and easy to set up ; arranging a pull pilot is a bigger deal but can get you hundreds of feet in the air . Tether yourself to the ground with a long rope , push the control bar forward and rise up in the air like a kite . Then , cut yourself loose , pull the control bar into your stomach and cut around in a spiral to gain forward airspeed before leveling off . Most hang gliding I 've seen done has involved launching from a tall hill or cliff , then looking for a ridge or thermal updraft nearby to keep you in the sky .
As I pointed out in <URL> of mine , it is not legal to use a cell phone in flight , and as <URL> to the same question says , it really does n't work very well anyway . . Now , if the pilot has an emergency , they can exercise the emergency authority of the PIC as allowed in <URL> ( b ) to go ahead and use the cell phone . If it is just the radio failure though , that is n't usually an emergency since there are other procedures in place for radio failures . Radio Failure Procedures <URL> contains the procedures to use in the event of a radio failure . Basically , if the pilot is in visual conditions ( VMC ) and can remain that way , they should fly VFR ( visually ) and land as soon as practical . If they ca n't remain in VMC then there are a number of rules which spell out the route and altitude that they should fly , as well as when they should start an instrument approach . Once they get to an airport they will still need to get clearance to land if it is a towered airport . <URL> covers that , and basically the tower will communicate with the pilot via light gun signals : <URL>
No The way that both pilots can log PIC is that the pilot using a view limiting device is logging PIC as sole manipulator and the safety pilot is logging PIC because he is acting PIC and a required crew member . If the flight is operating under an instrument clearance then the acting PIC must be instrument rated . If only the pilot with the view limiting device is rated then he is acting PIC and is the only one eligible to log PIC . The safety pilot is also not allowed to log SIC as a required crewmember without an instrument rating while operating under IFR . If you are in actual IMC then you should n't be logging anything and they other guy should n't be wearing a view limiting device . If you want the PIC time ask your friend to fly VFR or get yourself an instrument rating .
end question
start question
What is the difference between a monocoque and semi-monocoque fuselage type ?
A monocoque fuselage has its skin holding the skeleton structure together while the semi-monocoque has both the skin and the skeleton holding together . Semi-monocoque also has " stringers " running horizontally down the plane to help hold the frame together . The monocoque fuselage also can not be used for airframes after a certain size ( small aircraft with single engine ) , but the semi-monocoque has been used from single piston engines to commercial airliners . A monocoque design would also have a safety risk involved if the skin was damaged because it is the load-bearing structure . <URL> Image and some text <URL>
Quoting from the <URL> : You may ask " Why 5/8th of a statute mile ? " That 's because <URL> , or about 1 kilometer .
Published waypoints are waypoints that appear on the charts and in the published navigation databases used by GPS navigators or FMSes . They are referenced using the published identifier for the waypoint . Examples : TPA , ITAWT . Unpublished waypoints are waypoints created by the pilot . FMS allow for the creation/entry of a waypoint by the pilot . The waypoint is defined by one of the following : Latitude/Longitude Place/Bearing/Distance Place-Bearing/Place-Bearing The pilot-defined waypoint can then be added to the flight plan . Here 's a snip of how a waypoint is defined in an A320 : <URL> As to when you would use it , the short answer is when you need to or want to . A common example would be to deviate a short distance off an airway ( maybe 5 or 10 nm ) to avoid a temporary flight restriction . You would just want to avoid the restricted airspace and using a published waypoint or waypoints would take you farther off your route than necessary .
As you measure temperature moving at high velocities , your outside thermometer will measure a higher temp than what is actually outside ( what a non-moving thermometer would get ) . That 's because as the air rams into your thermometer it gets a little bit compressed , and that makes it heat up a little bit . Amazingly , some smart people have even calculated how much that " ram rise " is , and you can actually compensate ( well , in theory ) from the indicated temperature to calculate what the actual outside air temp is : $ $ Ram ~ Rise = SAT \ times0 .2 \ times { M } ^ 2 $ $ Where $ SAT$ is Static Air Temperature in Kelvin , $ M$ is Mach number Problem is , not all instruments will compress that air in the same way , and not all of them will pick up this Ram Rise entirely . So they will publish a $ K$ , a ram-rise-coefficient ( also called recovery factor ) meaning how much of from the theoretical Ram Rise they actually pick up . ( OAT/SAT ) Static Air Temperature = noted as $ T_S $ , actual temperature of the air outside , the same your thermometer will pick up if you were not moving ( say , in a balloon ? ) ( RAT ) Ram Air Temperature = noted as $ T_M $ , actual measured temperature by your instrument . $ $ RAT = SAT + k \ times { Ram ~ Rise } $ $ ( TAT ) Total Air Temperature = noted as $ T_T $ , total temperature as measured by an instrument with $ K$ - coefficient of $ 1 $ . $ $ TAT = SAT+R am ~ Rise $ $
NOAA has a great guide on their website called <URL> which covers these ( and more ) ! They actually describe it better than I could . The short version though is that TIBS is a telephone weather service while TWEB is a recorded route briefing that you can listen to while airborne . Both are used for supplemental information and do n't replace an official briefing . TIBS Telephone Information Briefing Service TWEB Transcribed Weather Enroute Broadcast PATWAS Pilot 's Automatic Telephone Weather Answering Service TRANSCRIBED WEATHER BROADCASTs ( TWEB ) are continuous broadcasts of recorded NOTAM and weather information prepared for a 50-nautical mile wide zone along a route and for selected terminal areas . TWEBs are broadcast over selected NDB and VOR facilities and generally contain a weather synopsis , in-flight advisories , route and/or local vicinity forecasts . Winds Aloft Forecasts , current weather reports , NOTAMs , and special notices . TWEB outlets are listed below by state : PILOT 'S AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE WEATHER ANSWERING SERVICE ( PATWAS ) , and the TELEPHONE INFORMATION BRIEFING SERVICE ( TIBS ) , provide continuous recordings of weather and aeronautical information . The information may include area and/or route briefings , airspace procedures , and special announcements . Telephone numbers for PATWAS and TIBS locations are found in the Airport/Facility Directory . TWEBs , PATWAS , and TIBS are for preflight or inflight planning and should not be considered a substitute for formal preflight briefings .
From the manual for <URL> which seems to be similar to yours : PLANNED TRUE AIRSPEED This function is used to calculate true airspeed for preflight planning . It will compute the true airspeed in knots and Mach number and density altitude , given the pressure altitude , temperature , and calibrated airspeed in knots . and ACTUAL TRUE AIRSPEED This function calculates true airspeed , Mach number and density altitude given pressure altitude , indicated temperature in Celsius and calibrated airspeed . The manual does n't give any more information on the difference between the two calculations so we can only guess ... Both methods use pressure altitude and calibrated airspeed . One clue is that the " planned " version uses " temperature " , while the " actual " version uses " indicated temperature " . So my guess is : you use the " actual " version in flight , and it expects you to input <URL> ( TAT ) , read from the gauge in the airplane , which it then converts to Outside Air Temperature ( OAT ) to do the density altitude and true airspeed calculation . You use the " planned " version for flight planning , where the temperature you have available is the OAT . The TAT is the OAT plus the rise in temperature due to the air being brought to rest relative to the airplane . Since the TAT is a bit higher than the OAT , the " actual " version should give slightly lower density altitude and a slightly lower true airspeed .
In Europe , some airways are only available in certain flight level ranges , so a commercial airliner and a GA turbo-prop travelling from the same departure airport to the same destination airport could be travelling on different routes due to airway restrictions in place and the inability of one aircraft to climb to the same level as the other . Below the routing for PC12 operating IFR at FL150 and an A320 operating at FL250 . The above flightplan from EDDL to EDDM validates for FL240 , but anything above FL245 will not pass , it will error out with : To fly the same flight in higher levels , you would need another routing : This routing works fine for anything above FL245 , below it would again error out with :
The first turbofan , the <URL> , had just a bypass ratio of 0.25 . It was designed for installation into the wing root of airplanes like the <URL> bomber or the <URL> transport project , so RR strived to keep the diameter small . Of course , back then nobody distinguished low - and high-bypass engines . The <URL> , which powered most of the second generation of jet airliners ( Boeing 707 and DC-8 ) , had a bypass ratio of less than 1.5 . But when the new generation of engines ( <URL> , <URL> ) with bypass ratios of around 5 were developed for the first generation of wide body jets , marketing needed a term to make clear that this was a new generation of engines , and the high-bypass ratio engine category was born . Generally , the threshold is around 5 , but note that some CF-6 versions have bypass ratios as low as 4.24 and still fall into the high bypass ratio category . Therefore , <URL> sets the limit at a bypass ratio of 4 . There is no technical difference between a low - and a high-bypass engine , and the limit is arbitrary . The jump in bypass ratio from 1.5 to 5 brought significant improvements in specific fuel consumption and noise reduction , but part of the technical progress was also from better materials and aerodynamics , which allowed higher compression ratios and turbine entry temperatures . Now , almost 50 years later , we see the first engines with <URL> entering service . Designs are being readied with bypass ratios of 12 , so marketing will need a new word to describe those creations . With " ultra high bypass " already taken by the <URL> crowd , the search is on .
A PAPI and a VASI are very similar in the the information they provide . The only functional differences between the VASI and PAPI is that the VASI has the red over the white , the PAPI the white actually goes to the right of the red , and the PAPI offers higher precision ( or more glideslopes depending how you look at it a larger airliner with a high cockpit may elect to fly a slightly higher glidepath ) . The concept is the same though . A VASI looks like this : Usage : As the saying goes , Red over White , you 're alright . ( on glidepath ) Red over Red , you 're dead . ( too low ) White over White , you 're out-of-sight ( too high ) A PAPI like this : A regular VASI only offers one glide slope and is designed for an aircraft where the cockpit is n't so high up . However , there is a such thing as two-light PAPI , and a three-bar VASI . So either of them can really be tailored to fit the costs and types of aircraft flying to that airport . In the case of a four-bar PAPI it is higher precision . Since the PAPI systems uses a narrower beam of light you must fly the glide path more precisely than the VASI to stay on the beam . The PAPI , with its extra lights , forewarns you when you are drifting from the desired glide path . <URL> So one red light would indicate slightly above glide slope , two and two would indicate the normal glide slope , and three red lights would indicate slightly below the glide slope on a 4-bar PAPI . A Three bar VASI works in similar fashion except there are only two glide paths with two reds being the lower , two whites the higher .
The short answer ( to the question in your subject line ) is that in an explosion the skin is blown outward , and in impact damage it 's ( usually ) blown inward : In other words you can tell the direction of the force applied by which way the skin around a break/penetration is bent , if you recover the right bits of the aircraft . The labs start with " Boom = Outie , Crash = Innie " , and they can also look at burn patterns ( on the paint or as changes in the heat treatment of the metal ) , chemical residue ( if it has n't all washed away or been contaminated ) , etc. . In addition to leaving chemical traces or heat-related damage explosions also tend to be physically " messy " , so there 's usually some physical evidence . Shrapnel punctures through control surfaces are a distinct possibility in an explosion ( those punctures generally have a different characteristic than denting and tearing from impact with rocky ground , and again if you get lucky you might even find bits of shrapnel inside the punctured control surface ) . The longer answer ( to the rest of the question ) is that sometimes you ca n't conclusively tell what happened , particularly from just a single piece of wreckage like a control surface . In fact quoting from the story you linked there are three different ( and valid ) theories about what could have caused the damage seen on the particular piece of debris in question : The rear damage could have been caused if the airliner had its flaperon down as it went into the ocean , some members of Exner 's group wrote in a preliminary assessment after looking at photos and videos of the component . Entirely plausible : Impacting water at speed could tear chunks out of the trailing edge of a flaperon . It could also break the control surface free of the rest of the wing . But the lack of damage to the front makes it more likely the plane was in a high-speed , steep , spiral descent and the part fluttered until it broke off , the group said . Also plausible : Aerodynamic flutter could break pieces of the flaperon off , or tear the entire control surface from the aircraft ( in which case damage may be evident at the points where the flaperon attached to the rest of the wing ) The lack of damage to the front section " tells me that the component could still have likely been back in its original position inside the wing itself , " Still plausible but a bit more exotic : The flaperon could have broken off post-impact ( and the damage to the trailing edge could have occurred on impact , post-impact , or even pre-impact while the aircraft was still flying ) . Note that a lot of what 's being put forth in that article ( and others ) is speculation based on a few photos showing only part of the debris ( so far I have n't seen any showing the " bottom " of the debris ) . A conclusive determination can only be made when the debris is recovered and examined in its entirety . Attempting to draw conclusions without the full picture can lead to interesting results : The apple is perfect until you see the other side . <URL>
The context of your question is a bit unclear , but assuming that you 're asking about navigation waypoints in the US then you 're probably referring to these terms as <URL> in the FAA 's Pilot/Controller Glossary : FLY-BY WAYPOINT - A fly-by waypoint requires the use of turn anticipation to avoid overshoot of the next flight segment . FLY-OVER WAYPOINT - A fly-over waypoint precludes any turn until the waypoint is overflown and is followed by an intercept maneuver of the next flight segment . As per the comments , I have never heard of a " short turn " waypoint and it is n't in the P/CG .
<URL> Flight simulators , flight training devices , and training aids . Requirements for a FTD : ( 1 ) Be a full-size replica of instruments , equipment panels , and controls of an aircraft , or set of aircraft , in an open flight deck area or in an enclosed cockpit , including the hardware and software for the systems installed that is necessary to simulate the aircraft in ground and flight operations ; The important mention is it must be a full-size replica of controls and panels . This does n't apply for an ATD ( see definition in <URL> , appendix 2 ) . See also : <URL> . <URL> .
You 're correct that the ailerons are deflected differently when they are deflected up or down . This is done in order to counter the adverse yaw effect which occurs when ailerons are deployed . Consider the situation when the ailerons are deployed . <URL> Image from aerospaceweb.org One aileron is deflected downward while the other is deflected upward . One the side with the downward-deflected aileron , lift increases as the deflection effectively increases the camber of that portion of the wing . The opposite happens in the other side . However , the drag is also affected by aileron deflection - both induced and profile drags . For same deflection , the profile drag increase is same in both the wings . However , the induced drag on both sides are not equal , with a larger amount the wing with the down aileron ( as the lift is more and induced drag is proportional to the square of lift ) . One way of overcoming this is to deflect the ailerons differentially , i.e. deflect the down aileron by a lesser amount than the up aileron . The following table shows the aileron deflection in a number of aircraft , which shows the differential aileron deflection ( $ \ delta _ { A } $ is the aileron deflection , in degrees ) . <URL> Table from Aircraft Design : A Systems Engineering Approach by Mohammad Sadraey This adverse yaw can also be prevented by the use of , Frise ailerons Use of spoilers ( in the wing up aileron ) Cross coupled controls ( rudder and ailerons ) . There is another reason to use a differential aileron - to prevent tip stall at high angles of attack ( stall speeds ) . The rolling couple on the aircraft is always the difference in lift between the two wings . At or near stalling speeds , it is better to reduce the lift in up-going aileron than increase it in down moving one and risk stalling it .
Do they generate the same navigation signal ? The DVOR reverses the useage of the two 30Hz signals . However , by also reversing the direction of it 's rotating variable signal it produces exactly the same result in the receiver . The receiver has no " knowledge " that it 's a DVOR as opposed to CVOR it 's receiving and operates as normal . Can they be used by the same receiver , or do VOR receivers need to be specially adapted to DVORs ? Affirm , same receiver . Is one more accurate than the other ? DVOR is more accurate , and more expensive . CVOR is required to be ± 4 ° , however DVOR is required to be ± 1 ° , per Convention on International Civil Aviation Annex 10 , Volume 1 . Is one more susceptible to interference than the other ? The DVOR is more practical in crowded areas or where there are tall buildings . However , it 's a big structure - around 100ft in diameter . Sources : <URL> p. 295 , <URL> , and <URL>
Although Lnafziger 's answer is correct , I 'd like to elaborate on the purpose of the airspace classes . Class A : This airspace is intended for high-speed , point to point travel . That is why pilots flying in Class A must be instrument rated and in contact with air traffic control ( ATC ) ; aircraft above 18,000 feet are likely to travel quickly and may not have time to avoid each other visually . This is the upper layer of the airspace system . * Class B : This airspace is intended for large airports with lots of jet traffic . The large number and size of aircraft require space for ATC to get them efficiently in and out of the airports . Approach control services are provided . As a result , class B areas are physically large . It is possible for small aircraft flying under visual flight rules to operate here with explict ATC permission , though permission to enter may be denied during periods of high traffic . Small piston-powered aircraft land at Class B airports infrequently , typically due to high landing fees and fuel prices . Class C : Smaller airports with a mix of piston-powered aircraft and jets . Most Class C airports are home to flight schools and small aircraft hangars as well as scheduled service by airlines . While still busy , Class C airports have less traffic than Class B , so ATC does n't need as much space to keep them organized . Like Class B , approach control services are provided . Pilots are only required to establish two-way communication to enter the airspace . Class D : The smallest airspace type for tower-controlled airports , traffic primarily consists of general aviation aircraft . Often these airports handle cargo , business jets , charter service , maintenance or assembly facilities , etc. as well as private aircraft and flight schools . They also host firefighting operations , airshows , or anything else that needs facilities but would interfere with normal traffic if put at a larger airport . Although Class D airports are small , some are very busy ; others handle only a few flights an hour . Approach control services are only provided if the airport is near Class B or C airspace . Class E : This is the lowest level of " controlled airspace . " " Controlled " does n't mean you have to talk to ATC , but that ATC services are available ( within the capabilities of radar and radio equipment ) . This is general-purpose airspace . Aircraft flying under visual flight rules can fly more-or-less whatever they want ( weather permitting ) , and instrument flight rules traffic operate under positive control by ATC . There are regulations in this airspace , but they are n't onerous , and they 're designed to accommodate the wide variety of aircraft and activities that are found here . Some small airports have Class E airspace surrounding them at the ground . Although Class E is a single class of airspace , there are tighter regulations above 10,000 feet , where there are no speed restrictions ( other than the prohibition on supersonic flight over land ) , compared to at lower altitudes where speeds are limited to 250 knots . Class F : See <URL> Class G : This is found near the ground everywhere except controlled airspace around airports , and occasionally at higher altitudes in remote areas ( Alaska or the Rockies , usually ) , but never above 14,500 feet . Most untowered airports have Class G airspace surrounding them . This is " uncontrolled " airspace , so there is no ATC service available at all . Radio and radar work better the higher you go , so at low altitudes you just ca n't expect good results . Class G serves as a notice that ATC services are unavailable , typically due to a lack of radar coverage . In remote areas , the same problems occur at higher altitudes ( radar wo n't see you if you go behind a mountain , and sometimes you 're just too far ) so Class G is found there as well . Most of the time , the only reason anybody goes into Class G airspace is because they 're taking off or landing at an uncontrolled airport , or transiting certain areas that lack radar coverage . Other : There are many kinds of special-use airspace , all of which serve as keep-out signs of varying levels from " please be considerate " up to " will shoot on sight . " In the US , these do n't really interact with airspace classification . * Technically , airspace above 60,000 feet is Class E , but nobody goes up there except scientific and spy/military flights .
Any body moving in a fluid experiences pressure forces over its surface . The concepts of center of pressure , aerodynamics center and neutral point are useful in understanding the effects of these forces . Let 's take an airfoil moving in air with subsonic flow attached to the body . Center of Pressure The center of pressure is the point where the total sum of a pressure field acts on a body . In aerospace , this is the point on the airfoil ( or wing ) where the resultant vector ( of lift and drag ) acts . <URL> Source : avstop.com As the airfoil angle of attack changes , the pressure field changes . Due to this , the center of pressure changes with variation in the angle of attack . In the airplane 's normal range of flight attitudes , if the angle of attack is increased , the center of pressure moves forward ; and if decreased , it moves rearward . <URL> Source : www.flightlearnings.com As the center of gravity ( the point where the weight of the body acts ) is fixed , this movement of center of pressure affects the stability of the aircraft . Aerodynamic Center The resultant ( or the pressure forces ) also cause a moment on the airfoil . As the angle of attack increases , the pitching moment at a point ( for example , the center of gravity ) also changes . However , the pitching moment remains constant at a particular point , which is called the aerodynamic center . <URL> Source : www.theairlinepilots.com For symmetric airfoils in subsonic flight the aerodynamic center is located approximately 25 % of the chord from the leading edge of the airfoil . This point is described as the quarter-chord point . Thus the aerodynamic center does not change with variation in angle of attack . Due to this , the aerodynamic center , rather than the center of pressure is used in the analysis of longitudinal stability . Neutral Point Consider the whole aircraft . The lift of the wing acting through the center of pressure is in front of the center of gravity of the aircraft . This causes a destabilizing motion ( increase in lift to increase in angle of attack causes a nose up moment , further increasing angle of attack ) . This is counteracted by the moment produced by the lift of the horizontal stabilizer ( which is a small wing ) , acting behind the center of gravity . <URL> " <URL> " by User_A1 - SVG derivative of Public Domain work by G J Vigurs . Licensed under GFDL via <URL> . As the center of gravity is moved forward , the stability of the aircraft increases ( as the main wing lift arm is reduced ) and the aircraft is statically stable . <URL> Source : quest.arc.nasa.gov As the center of gravity is moved aft , the main wing lift moment arm increases and the aircraft stability decreases . The aircraft is said to be statically unstable . <URL> Source : quest.arc.nasa.gov As the aircraft is stable when center of gravity is in the nose and unstable when center of gravity is in the tail , there is a position in the middle where the aircraft is neither stable nor unstable i.e the stability is neutral . This point is called the neutral point . The neutral point is fixed for a particular aerodynamic configuration of the aircraft . <URL> Source : quest.arc.nasa.gov Thus , Center of pressure of an aircraft is the point where the Lift acts . Aerodynamic center is the point in the wing where the pitching moments are constant . Neutral point it the location of center of gravity where the aircraft is neutrally stable
The 777-31H is a standard Boeing 777-300 manufactured for Emirates ( customer code 1H ) . The 777-31H ( ER ) is a Boeing 777-300ER ( Extended Range ) again for Emirates . Compared to the standard 777-300 , the 777-300ER has : A longer range due to the extra fuel it can carry ( 145538 kg compared to 135880 kg for the -300 baseline ) A higher Operating Empty Weight ( 167829 kg compared to 159570 kg for the -300 baseline ) A higher Maximum Take-Off Weight ( 351535 kg compared to 299370 kg for the -300 baseline ) A higher maximum structural payload weight ( 69853 kg compared to 64960 kg for the -300 baseline ) A wider wingspan ( 64.80 compared to 60.93 m ) A different engine delivering more thrust The Boeing 777-300ER is always equipped with General Electric GE90-115BL1 engines , while the baseline -300 can be ordered with four different engine models from General Electric , Pratt &amp; Whitney or Rolls Royce . The Emirates Boeing 777-300 aircraft have the Rolls Royce RR Trent 892 engines installed . They deliver 415 kN of thrust , almost 100 kN less than the GE90-115BL1 engines .
Yes , it can be done , but to <URL> is a lot of work . You will also need to use a thinner gauge than 1/32 " to get the weight down . Note that one of the very <URL> was made of 0.2 mm ( 1/128 " ) sheet steel and flew well . However , building it required a corrugated substructure and a welded steel tube frame for strength . Still , it was heavier than necessary so its builder switched to aluminium for later designs . Generally , the tension length of steel ( strength relative to density ) is roughly equal with that of aluminium or titanium ; however , you will need to use high-grade steel to be comparable with aircraft-grade aluminium , so some of the price advantage will be lost . But there is a distinct disadvantage with higher-density materials . While their strength scales linearly with wall thickness , their <URL> scales with the square of their thickness . You will end up with a very delicate structure which will require careful handling to avoid local dimples and a stiff substructure to avoid early failure in compression . Also , introducing loads locally ( say , for a landing gear or an engine mount ) will require local reinforcements which should ideally be multi-layered and taper out in several steps . If you want to scale an existing structure down , make sure you place the stiffeners closer than what a scale construction would require . But I am sure you will prefer to bond the sheet steel to a styrofoam core . Use a higher-density styrofoam with better compression strength and be generous with local reinforcements , and the model should turn out fine .
Non-regulatory airspace is <URL> , <URL> , Alert Areas , and Controlled Firing Areas <URL> , <URL> . Other information should be located in the <URL> Ch 3-4 , Special Use Airspace . Specifically 3-4-1 ( c ) Basically non-regulatory areas mean that the FAA does not make regulatory enforcement in those areas due to special ( military ) operations . Usually the non-enforcement is only for participating aircraft , and generally recreational/commercial aircraft would not fall under any non-regulatory rules . For example , in an active MOA with aircraft practicing low-altitude speed runs , the FAA would not enforce the 250 knot speed limit on participating aircraft . This is in the AIM , Ch 3 Section 4 , Part 5 ( b ) Military pilots flying in an active MOA are exampted from the provisions of 14 CFR Section 91.303 ( c ) and ( d ) which prohibits aerobatic flight within Class D and E surface areas and within Federal Airways . Additionally the Department of Defense has been issued an authorization to operate aircraft at indicated airspeeds in excess of 250 knots below 10,000 feet MSL within active MOAs . . For another example , consider warning areas , which are areas extending 3 miles from the coast . Since this area may include international waters ( think of the area between Alaska and Russia ) , the FAA ca n't really regulate operations in all these areas . The US Navy also controls some of these areas and " shares " jurisdiction with the FAA .
There 's no singular right answer , it 's up to the individual and how he or she learns best . The biggest difference between the two you 'll find is that part 141 schools are always very structured in their training regiment . That is not to say part 61 is n't ( nor does it imply that it 's better for everyone ) , it 's just that part 61 does things according to what they wish with less FAA oversight . You might know that under part 141 , the earliest you can get your ticket is 35 hours , while part 61 requires a minimum of 40 hours . Do n't let that red herring influence you ; almost everyone takes more than 40 hours regardless of the school type .
end question
start question
When sizing a powerplant for a GA aircraft , how do you estimate the power required for other electrical systems ?
This depends heavily on how the plane is set up especially these days with <URL> even in GA planes . For a point of reference most small GA planes like the <URL> run <URL> which usually have a bit of headroom in them but power everything and charge the battery just fine . If you want to fly in most airspace you are going to need to power at least a transponder and a radio ( more than likely two radios ) . <URL> and is fairly common in the Archers I fly . Your run of the mill <URL> radio comes in 10 and 16 watt versions . To get the total requirement just add up all of your components draw . Most manufacturers list power requirements ( or voltage and current draw requirements ) for any given piece of equipment and you will have your required power . As for De-Ice requirements this depends on <URL> . A weeping wing will only require power to drive the fluid pump and the windshield heater where as a boot style system will require enough power to drive the compressor that inflates the boots . Although its becoming increasingly more common to see FIKI on GA planes the majority of the small aircraft fleet still lacks FIKI capability .
You do n't need the standby altimeter for VFR ( day or night ) but you do need it for IFR . The Comprehensive Equipment List ( section 6 in the POH ) lists all the equipment required by the type certificate : Required items or equipment for FAA certification ( 14 CFR Part 23 or Part 91 ) But , even if a piece of equipment is required by the type certificate that does n't mean it 's required for a specific flight . The Kinds of Operations Equipment List ( section 2 in the POH ) lists the equipment that 's required for airworthiness in day and night VFR and IFR : identifies the equipment required to be operational for airplane airworthiness in the listed kind of operations . <URL> says that the aircraft must be " in an airworthy condition " to fly , and that 's what the KOEL defines . The reason that the standby altimeter is marked as required in the Comprehensive Equipment List is that the C172S was type certified under the old part 23 rules . <URL> required IFR-certified aircraft that use electronic displays - like the G1000 in the NAV III - to have a standby altimeter , either mechanical or electrically isolated from the main one ( emphasis mine ) : For certification for Instrument Flight Rules ( IFR ) operations , have an independent magnetic direction indicator and either an independent secondary mechanical altimeter , airspeed indicator , and attitude instrument or an electronic display parameters for the altitude , airspeed , and attitude that are independent from the airplane 's primary electrical power system In summary : The standby altimeter is marked as required in the Comprehensive Equipment List because it 's an IFR certification requirement Operationally , the standby altimeter is only required for IFR flight , per the KOEL
<URL> ( <URL> ) Reversers would slow down or stop the windmilling by blocking the majority of the bypass . If repositioning the aircraft abeam the wind is not possible , then deploying the reversers does the trick . It 's the <URL> used when starting a jet engine in strong tailwind . Windmilling can be <URL> . The clacking sound you hear <URL> . Jetliners do n't have shaft brakes , but some <URL> .
You presume that they flew back the very same day ... but that is an incorrect presumption . For long flights over about 8 hours , strict rest limits apply so they can not fly again for 8-10 hours at a bare minimum . Typically , a crew from a long-haul flight will stay in a hotel in the destination city for anywhere from 12 to 48 hours , depending on the flight length , timezone changes , airline schedules , union contracts , and so on . Yes the hotels and travel bonuses costs the airline a pretty penny but that 's the cost of doing business . So at this very moment there will be 1 or maybe 2 LX crews , resting ( or touristing ... ) in San Francisco , waiting to fly a return service . For more information you can google or ask a new question on Fatigue Risk Management Systems .
You should definitely not attempt flight if there is frost on the windows that would affect visibility , or on any of the wings or flight control surfaces . Frost accumulation on such surfaces can reduce the lift generated by your wings , possibly causing a crash on takeoff . <URL> , frost the size of a grain of salt , distributed as sparsely as one per square centimeter over a wing 's upper surface , can destroy enough lift to prevent a plane from taking off . The cheapest solution is to try to re-position the plane on the ramp so that the sunlight has a chance to melt it away . You can also temporarily move the plane into a heated hangar until it melts , or ask the FBO to do so for you . If the forecast is predicting a chance of such conditions the night before , you can usually call the FBO on the night before and ask them to move your plane into their hangar just for the night , in advance of your morning flight . If you 're really anxious to go , you can ask the FBO to apply a heated deicing solution to your plane , but be prepared to pay for it ( it 's priced by the gallon and the amount needed will depend on the size and amount of frost of your plane ) . Not all FBOs will have deicing capabilities , particularly if the region does not commonly experience such conditions .
I 'm answering the question of after the Edit . Simple momentum theory : $ $ T = C_T \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 2 \ cdot R ^ 2 \ tag { Thrust } $ $ $ $ P = C_P \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 3 \ cdot R ^ 3 \ tag { Power } $ $ $ $ C_P = \ frac { { C_T } ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt2 } \ tag { Ideal Power } $ $ $ $ FM = \ frac { Ideal Power } { InducedPower + ProfilePower } \ tag { FigureOfMerit } $ $ The Figure Of Merit is a dimensional unit and provides an efficiency measure . It always gives a better result for higher disk loadings , but does provide a correction for real life effects on the ideal power . So for your case , with A = 3.14 m $ ^ 2 $ , $ \ rho $ = 1.225 , T = 981N , the ideal power is : $ $ P _ { ideal } = 2 \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { ( T/2 ) ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt { 2 \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A } } \ right ) = 2 \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { ( 981/2 ) ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt { 2 \ cdot 1.225 \ cdot 3.14 } } \ right ) = 7.8 kW $ $ From J. Gordon Leishman , Principles of Helicopter Aerodynamics : <URL> $ $ C_T = \ frac { T } { \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 2 \ cdot R ^ 2 } \ tag { CT } $ $ Tip speed $ V _ { tip } = \ Omega \ cdot R$ should not exceed critical Mach = 0.7 * 340 m/s = 238 m/s . At this tip speed , $ C_T $ = 981 / ( 1.225 * 3.14 * 238 $ ^ 2 $ ) = 0.009 0.0045 . Corresponding Figure of Merit = 0.75 0.55 . So the power to drive the rotor would be $ $ 7.8 / 0.55 = 14.2 kW $ $ The rotor would turn at 238 rad/s = 2,270 rpm , hopefully that is around the rpm for max . torque for your engine . Otherwise you need to gear up/down as required , you have gearboxes anyway . You would need to add transmission losses for driving the two rotors from your engine . Prouty gives a power loss per stage of 0.0025 [ max.power + actual power ] . Each disk has 2 stages , so a power loss of about 0.005 * 2 * 14.2 = 0.14 kW per disk . $ $ Torque = P / \ Omega = 14,200 / 238 = 60 Nm $ $ EDIT A numerical error in calculating $ C_T $ = 0.0045 not 0.009 , so the FM is lower and torque may not be enough . In that case the rotor diameter should be reduced and the rpm increased .
Yes they do , and so do some independent training organisations . For instance EPST markets an aptitude test called <URL> , developed to test the suitability of candidates before they engage in pilot training . Some airlines only hire self funded students ( who have paid for their own CPL , type rating etc ) and they can be flight tested in the simulator .
Audible Warning On light aircraft there is a reed ( much like used on a musical wind instrument ) mounted on one wing root , which is angled such that at the Angle of Attack which would cause a stall , the reed " plays " which can be heard in the cockpit . Here is a view of where this system is mounted on a Cessna <URL> On some aircraft , it is a similar principal , however instead of a reed , it uses a fin which at critical AoA pushes a micro-switch which activates a buzzer/horn inside the cockpit . Here is the assembly on a Beech 18 <URL> So , if you ever see anyone doing this : They are not kissing their aircraft for good luck , merely testing the stall warn as part of pre-flight checks ! Tactile Warning In addition to an audible reed/buzz/horn , most aircraft also provide tactile feedback to the pilot of an impending stall . In purely mechanical aircraft the aerodynamic forces on the control surfaces are transmitted through the mechanisms and are felt directly by the pilot when approaching a stall . In hydraulic or fly-by-wire aircraft , this is provided by a mechanical " stick shaker " linked to the same system as sounding the audible alarm .
There are two aspects here , one what is required legally and then what may be required locally . From a legal standpoint ( in your case ) the basic PPL will allow you to fly single engine , fixed pitch prop , under 200HP , fixed gear aircraft . If you want to go over 200 HP you will need a High Performance check out and log book endorsement . For a constant speed prop/folding gear/movable flap ( all 3 are required to require this endorsement ) plane you will need a complex endorsement in your log book . You may want to fly something like a Piper Cub which will require a tail wheel endorsement . If you are lucky enough ( and have the funding to do so ) you may find your self in a small pressurized single ( or twin ) like the <URL> or <URL> these planes will require a high altitude checkout as well . <URL> . If you want the full <URL> . Now as for a club or school that depends on a variety of factors including their insurance and their personal limits . I 'll offer some personal experience which seems to be pretty par for the course . The flight school I fly from requires a checkout in type from every new renter before you can fly it even if you have a PPL and the proper endorsements . They do n't have an official amount of time but it usually takes about an hour with an instructor . The former flight school I was at had the same deal with the exception of their Saratoga which they also required an instrument rating ( along with their checkout ) . My buddy 's flight club is somewhat similar . They require a check out in their Archer and Dakota to fly solo . They also have a <URL> . As for your log book you should be logging the full type of aircraft for every flight . For example when I fly the Warrior I make sure to note PA-28-161 and the Archer I fly is noted as PA-28-181 when I record hours this way I can note time in type at a detailed level . For what its worth with the PA-28 airframe it seems that some places to allow you to fly the lower rated planes if you are checked out in the higher power ones . The same basic frame was built in a 140 , 160 , 180 and 235HP variant over the years and has little differences aside from useful load and V speeds . For example at the place I go if you are checked out in the Archer first you are allowed to fly the Warrior with out a checkout . This will also extend to ownership should that be the path you go down . In that case you insurance company may require a certain amount of hours of time in type before you are allowed to solo your plane . Keeping that in mind you are not actually prevented from buying the plane and will be insured under the stipulation that the first hours in the plane are with an instructor . When a buddy of mine ( instrument rated and close to 600 hours at the time ) upgraded from his 72 Archer to a 95 Saratoga HP his insurance company mandated he do 25 hours in type with an instructor before taking the plane solo . The first 25 hours he flew his plane were with an instructor ( this included transporting the plane from the factory in Vero Beach to his home field ) . You can legally fly both planes once you have your PPL . What someone will let you fly should be pretty well addressed above . Neither the 172 or 152 requires a specific type rating like larger planes do .
I have no idea about ICAO but as far as I can tell from the <URL> , there 's no general requirement to have any runway or approach lighting at all ( see below for an example ) , although some specific approach types ( like CAT II/III ILS ) do require it . Where there is lighting , it 's used to reduce the visibility minimums , but the calculations assume no approach lighting by default . This is from 3-1-2 ( c ) ( emphasis mine ) : Approach lighting systems extend visual cues to the approaching pilot and make the runway environment apparent with less visibility than when such lighting is not available . For this reason , lower straight-in ( not applicable to circling ) visibility minimums may be established when standard or equivalent approach lighting systems are present . The TERPS concept seems to be that the approach minimums can be reduced depending on the lighting type available . Section 3-3-2 has an example of calculating visibility minimums when there are no approach lights available . As for a specific example , <URL> has three approaches ( 2 RNAV ( GPS ) , 1 VOR ) but - as far as I can tell - no lighting of any kind . The chart supplement says : Rwy 02 -- 20 marked with rwy cones . Rwy 13 -- 31 marked with cones and OTS lgts . Many missing . As you might expect , the approaches are not authorized at night :-) Finally , part 121/135 passenger flights ca n't land at night unless the runway is lit ( <URL> , <URL> ) , so any airport that handles those flights will have runway lighting at least , and almost certainly approach lighting too .
Are you in a wet or coastal environment ? You can store a " Cessna type " plane outside for a few months and be ok . Most flight school planes live outside for years and do just fine . Do n't use a tarp . You might damage antennas , windows , or paint . Custom fitted covers are good but they 're also expensive . Do n't just start the plane and let it idle . That hurts the engine more than it helps . To do any good , the engine must reach and sustain normal operating temperature until the moisture boils off . A quick flight can accomplish this .
I have both US and Australian PPLs , and having flown VFR in both countries , there are some real differences in the VFR charts and supplemental data available . Mostly the contents are fairly evident but if you are unfamiliar with a specific type of VFR chart , it is important to look over the chart in detail to make sure you understand it . The US publishes VFR charts known as <URL> . These cover the entire country , including non-continental areas like Hawaii . IMHO these are excellent although in busy airspace , the 1:500,000 scale can become complex . So pilots learning to fly in the US usually become familiar with the sectional covering their base field , and then with that understanding , can look at sectionals for anywhere else in the US . Printed sectionals can also be used for long range VFR flight planning as they can be laid out in sequence and routes plotted across adjoining chart boundaries . For online chart examination , <URL> publishes all US sectionals online , which is a great resource . Australia does not publish sectionals covering the whole country . It 's a good question as to why but essentially the centre of the country is a big desert where few people live . So from a historical perspective , the inner part of the country has been regarded as " remote " and thus less in need of highly detailed maps . In addition , the word ' sectional ' is n't even in Australian pilot lexicon , so use the word ' chart ' instead . Australia publishes Visual Terminal Charts ( VTC ) for each large metropolitan area which are a Mercator projection at 1:250,000 . And there are Visual Navigational Charts ( VNC ) which mostly encapsulate the VTCs and are at 1:500,000 ( same as sectionals ) . The image below is an example of the Brisbane VTC . <URL> As VTC/VNCs cover only largely populated areas , for printed chart long VFR route planning , you will need to revert to the World Aeronautical Charts ( WACs ) , pronounced ' whacks ' . <URL> WACs started as an ICAO project after WW2 to transition from the existing US-based international wartime series and so all Allied nations were effectively asked to harmonize their maps with a US design . But in 2015 , the FAA <URL> and thus a recently US-trained VFR PPL would never have heard of them ( ! ) The US WAC coverage looked like this : <URL> WACs are a Lambert projection at 1:1,000,000 and in Australia , printed chart VFR route planning would be done over sequential WAC 's , with likely a supplemental VNC chart for the populated areas to be crossed . WAC 's do not contain airspace ( although supposedly an aeronautical chart ! ) . They are essentially a topo map with features that are easy to spot from the air . <URL> So , to answer the OP 's question - no , there are no free online sources for Australian government produced charts . SkyVector shows a very data sparse US Sectional-like view of Australia but I would n't use it for anything other than simple distance/leg planning . However , all of the previously mentioned chart types for Australia are now encapsulated and adjoined in a single app known as OzRunways . I have no association with them , other than being a customer . Another answer has also referred to this as well . OzRunways works on both iOS and Android and in my experience seems very widely used amongst Australian VFR pilots . For VFR use , they provide a so-called ' Hybrid VFR Map ' which simply uses the most detailed chart available . Price at time of writing is about AUD $ 100 and chart-wise also has New Zealand and Papua New Guinea . But also of value to pilots flying in Australia , there is comprehensive airfield information available in the ERSA ( EnRoute Supplement Australia ) , which is a <URL> . It lists technical aspects/refueling contacts/etc . for every sizeable airfield in Australia . In addition to this , AOPA also publish a pilot guide for various airfields . OzRunways contains the ERSA and for an extra amount , they also will bundle the pilot 's guide . I would value any other comments about VFR chart sources for Australia but hopefully this is a good overview .
If you can , you 'll fly in maintance yourself to get it fixed , perhaps by chartering a cargo plane on the way . If you can land the aircraft , you can probably get any spare part in through the same runway , with varying degrees of difficulty . If it 's bad , Boeing has an <URL> who should be able to fix pretty serious damage . Often , it may just be patched up until it 's good enough to fly to get it to a place with better facilities .
<URL> , is a broadcast of the aircraft 's position and other information . The position is determined by a GPS receiver . It is possible to use another qualified position source , but today it is <URL> . Other GNSS ( Galileo , GLONASS , Bei-Dou ) are other likely candidates in the future , but as far as I know , none have been certified for ADS-B yet . The broadcast is usually by the Mode S transponder but can also be done by a dedicated transmitter / transceiver in the Mode S format and frequency ( 1090 MHz ) . In the USA below 18 000 ft , in addition to the Mode S based ADS-B , a system based on Universal Access Transceiver ( UAT ) is used . This operates on 978 MHz A third broadcast system was VDL mode 4 , it was never rolled out on large scale . So ADS-B uses GPS to determine the position and it operates either on 1090 MHz ( a frequency also used by Mode S ) or 978 MHz to broadcast information .
Well , as with many issues involving the FAA , the " why " is a bit of a mystery . Perhaps they thought that the pilot can " lead by example " if a bail-out is needed . I 'd imagine that a lot of passengers would be a little reluctant to jump out of an airplane , but once they see the pilot go I can see them becoming highly motivated ! As far as not needing the parachute if only crew members are on board , the FAA has long held the view that they are n't protecting pilots from doing stupid things to themselves since they are knowledgeable and informed , but their regulations are to protect the " general public " , or the passengers in this case , who do n't know any better .
Typically , the checklists in normal operations are : External walk around and preflight Before start Before taxi Before take-off After take-off Cruise Descent Approach Landing Shutdown Secure This list is pretty much the same for all aircraft . Normally , each checklist is only used once at the appropriate time but a wise pilot would re-run a checklist if interrrupted . For example , you are cleared to start and complete the before start checklist but there is then an unexpected delay before you actually start . You wait for 30 minutes . No need to redo the before start checklist because you did it earlier ? No , do it again . Something might have changed .
In the US you do n't need a bill of sale because the aircraft may not have been sold . The <URL> says : Deregistered Aircraft An aircraft that has been removed from the U.S. Civil Aircraft Register at the owner 's request . Aircraft are generally removed for the following reasons : exported , destroyed , salvaged , dismantled , or permanently retired from service . There would be no bill of sale for a destroyed aircraft , for example . If you 're asking about handling the FAA registration when you sell an aircraft , according to <URL> you have to sign and return the current registration certificate , and the FAA will issue a new one to the buyer .
Lowering stall speed is not a benefit in itself , it 's only a benefit if it you need it . There are STOL kits for many airplanes , you do n't see them much on most airplanes because there 's no real benefits in normal flying and they cost a fair chunk of money to install . STOL kits only get you so far , adding a STOL kit onto an airplane with a 50 kt stall speed will not give you a 25kt stall speed , it 's a lot less than that . If you have a bush airplane , fly into very short fields or in high density altitudes then a STOL kit can give you extra capabilities . If you do n't fly into very short fields then a STOL kit is extra weight and costs for capabilities you wo n't use . It 's also not as simple as simply sticking some extra bits on the front of the wing , there 's many considerations . For one , if you drop an airplane 's stall speed substantially then you will run into control authority issues at slow speed . You will have to beef up the ailerons , rudder and elevator to compensate , which is a substantial re-design , adding costs . The most popular STOL kits are for airplanes which already are good STOL aircraft to begin with and have adequate control authority .
There is no term ( that I am aware of ) referring to only the portion of the takeoff while the tail is off the ground . In general , the attitude where just the two main wheels are touching the ground is called " two-point . " Likewise , with the tail wheel also on the ground , it is called " three-point . " Specifically , a two-point landing is sometimes called a " wheel landing " . <URL>
Use Sighard Hoerner 's <URL> . It lists tons of wind tunnel and flight test data for a wide variety of configurations and flight regimes . Interference drag has several sources : Flow separation due to the coincidence of the pressure rises of two bodies . Each of them by itself would show attached flow , but in the vicinity of a similar body with its own pressure rise , the flow separates . This is most pronounced at low speed . Addition of the accelerated flow of two bodies in transsonic flight . While each of the single bodies has no supersonic pocket around it , both in combination will cause a local supersonic area with a subsequent shock . Disturbance in the spanwise lift distribution , such as wings interrupted by the fuselage or engine nacelles . Look for areas where one of these conditions is fulfilled , and then try to find a similar case in Horner 's book to estimate its severity . Note that all interference drag varies with speed and angle of attack . Doing so carefully will bring you within 10 % of the real drag , but needs some experience . In the end , drag estimation is like bookkeeping . You need to carefully add each component and make sure to avoid double-counting or mixing up reference areas . Sorry , but if you want a good result there are no shortcuts .
end question
start question
Why do we often have more than one method of slowing down ( retarding ) aircraft on the ground ?
The multiple methods of braking help to stop an aircraft faster , both through providing different means of braking and complementing each other . The wheel brakes are the primary method of braking on the aircraft . They work at any speed and can provide good braking force depending on the amount of friction between the tires and ground . Brakes convert the aircraft 's kinetic energy into heat , and have a limited ability to dissipate that heat . Aircraft may be delayed from taking off to allow brakes to cool down after a rejected takeoff or a short turnaround . Brakes wear down over time and must be replaced . Aircraft that are light and slow may be fine with only wheel brakes , as the other methods are less effective in this case and would add complexity and weight . Speed brakes or spoilers usually extend from the top surface of the wing . This both increases drag and reduces the lift produced by the wings , and are most effective at higher speeds . Reduced lift means more weight on the wheels , increasing their friction and the effectiveness of brakes . Airliners will typically extend the spoilers immediately after touchdown to increase braking and control effectiveness as they slow down . Aircraft are required to be able to demonstrate a rejected takeoff and stop using only brakes and spoilers on a dry runway . Techniques such as keeping the nose high as long as possible or just holding up elevator can also add aerodynamic braking . Reverse thrust redirects some of the engine 's thrust forward . This provides a braking force and for engines under the wing also helps interrupt airflow over the wing , reducing lift . Jet engines redirect core and/or fan air forward , propellers may change pitch to push the air forward . This can be particularly important on contaminated runways were low friction limits the effectiveness of the brakes . Reverse thrust is generally only used at higher speeds to reduce the risk the debris or exhaust being ingested . These are the primary methods available on airliners . Brakes are the most versatile but require friction and must be replaced . Speed brakes and reverse thrust use aerodynamic forces at higher speeds to help slow down , and increase effectiveness of brakes . Speed brakes are basically " free " , reverse thrust is relatively cheap and effective . Reducing the load placed on wheel brakes reduces temperature and wear ; steel brakes deteriorate much more at higher temperatures . Having multiple methods provides some redundancy as well , but when runway friction is poor it 's important that they are all used effectively to stop the aircraft . Drag chutes are another option to slow down . Upon landing , the parachute is released and uses drag to slow an aircraft down . The parachute provides large amounts of drag but must be collected and re-packed after every landing . This is useful for aircraft with high landing speeds where cost is less of an issue , such as fighter jets or the space shuttle . Tail hooks grab cables on the ground , and the cable provides the braking force to the aircraft . This can stop the aircraft quickly but requires an aircraft designed with a hook that can withstand the braking forces . Hooks are useful on aircraft carriers where space is at a premium , but this requires pilot skill to touch down in the right place for the hook to catch the cable . Hooks can also be used on regular runways for emergencies , where the extended hook will catch the cable as the aircraft rolls past .
In an aircraft the brake pedals control the respective side brakes . This allows for the pilot to turn the aircraft not only with the pivoting nose wheel ( if it has one ) but also with the brakes . This allows for a very tight turning radius . <URL> ( <URL> ) If each pedals controls different sets of wheels eg the left wheels and the right wheels of the main gear , is that not a safety flaw rather than measure given that at any point in time , It is by design to allow for the tight turning . Some smaller aircraft also do not have a steerable nose wheel so differential braking is the only option . it is impossible for the pilot to apply an equal amount of pressure to the brakes ? Pushing equally on each toe pedal will result in equal brake operation . Is n't ABS enough to the point that only one pedal is enough . The pedals allow for brake steering which a single pedal would prevent . <URL> but that simply prevents the tires from skidding . Finally do both captain and pilot step on the brakes at landing . IF not then why have two pedals ? Im not sure , when I fly with an instructor or co-pilot in smaller planes only one person operates the brakes .
Speed was life in air combat until the jet age . The pilots who became Air Force generals in the Fifties had learned their trade in the Thirties when speed was the most-desired quality in a fighter . Naturally , the ability to be faster than any adversary was very important to them . When the requirements for new fighter aircraft were written in the Fifties , those generals made sure that a higher top speed was part of the specification . When those supersonic-capable aircraft were used in real conflicts , something very surprising and unforeseen happened : They did hardly ever fly supersonic . When the Air Force in the late Sixties accumulated the flight data from several years of Vietnam war air combat , they found that all aircraft had accumulated just minutes at Mach 1.4 and only seconds at Mach 1.6 out of more than 100,000 combat sorties ¹ . Never was even Mach 1.8 flown in aircraft which had been optimized for Mach 2.4 ( F-104 , F-105 , F-106A , F-4D / E and F-111 ) . To cite from this study why speed stayed mostly subsonic : The first of these reasons lies in the shape of the turn rate vs Mach number relationship for an aircraft . [ ... ] In combat , each pilot has the tendency to to fly his aircraft so as to maximize his turn rate . He thus gains angular position on the enemy which , in turn , may permit a missile launch or a gun firing . [ ... ] It can be seen that the pilot 's urge to maximize his turn rate will unfailingly drive his Mach number to about 0.7 . Thus , if the pilot is going to join in combat , [ ... ] his speed will inevitably drop to subsonic speeds . [ ... ] Note also , that even if the turn rate is held constant while increasing the speed , [ ... ] the turn radius and load factor increase , bringing with it increasing problems of keeping the enemy in sight . The second reason given in the study is the dramatically smaller <URL> ( the maximum distance the airplane can travel from its base , accomplish an objective and return ) once the aircraft starts to fly at supersonic speeds . Even for flying into the combat arena supersonic speed was rarely advantageous . Northrop studied a multitude of intercept cases and found that speeds above Mach 1.1 were almost never helpful because they curtailed the combat radius severely . Now you need to know that the top speed is an important driver in airframe design . Flying at Mach 2 + requires <URL> , a heat-resistant structure , high wing sweep and <URL> . This all degrades the combat qualities at high subsonic speed , which was where those aircraft were used the most . Building into them the capacity for Mach 2 + made them worse for what they were actually used for . From the late Sixties on this lesson was incorporated into the newer designs like the <URL> . Stealth again decreased the importance of supersonic capability , and the maximum sustained speed of the <URL> was actually reduced from Mach 1.8 to Mach 1.6 to reduce the heat load on the composite wing leading edge . ¹ Source : <URL> , AIAA Professional Study Series
You can persuade a turbine engine to run on just about anything that can burn . So the decision of which fuel to actually use depends on the side factors including , but not limited to : availability cost emissions hot section temperature chemical reactions with engine parts Specific examples : Coal dust is rather difficult to pump around , and the rampies do n't like shovelling liquid hydrogen ( used in the Space Shuttle ) requires a lot of storage and has the nasty habit of freezing anything it touches , like rampies . ethylacetylenedecaborane is unpleasantly toxic ( rampies union again ) and the combustion byproducts were rather abrasive to the engine 's innards trimethylaluminum would reduce the engine complexity ( no igniters needed ) because it has the nasty habit of igniting instantly upon contact with air , so leaks are rather dangerous . natural gas is commonly used as a turbine fuel in pumping stations : it 's already there and thus is " free " . The required pressure vessels make it impractical to use as an aircraft fuel . So kerosene basically became the standard turbine fuel because it 's : cheap : kerosene makes up a rather large fraction of crude oil . When you measure your fuel load in tons a few cents per litre makes a difference . safe to handle : relatively non-toxic , does n't ignite all that easily storable and transportable in common structural metals does n't clog up the engine
If you feel that you would need carb heat sitting on the ground , I 'd recommend taxing back and waiting for conditions to improve . If you are set on going , usually doing a run-up at the runway before take-off will tell you if you have carb ice or not . The other answer gave good reasons , sucking in some FOD ( foreign object debris ) , but there are some other things you would want to consider ... Forgetting to push the carb heat back in before takeoff - Especially important when taking off from short fields , you want all the power your engine has to offer , as carb heat robs your engine of some power . If you have carb ice , applying carb heat will cause your engine to make even less power ( hot air is less dense than cold air ) . 3/4 of the way down a 1200 foot runway is a bad time to realize the carb heat is still on , because it probably is n't on your takeoff checklist . Carb heat is not very effective on a cold engine - This is a real problem when you are at idle or especially gliding , the airflow over the engine components and the exhaust just does n't create enough heat to melt the ice in the carb ( at least not very quickly ) . This is why you may be instructed to " clear " the engine periodically during low power operations . This involves adding power and then carb heat to help melt any ice . That all being said , its not so much a rule as a recommendation . You 'll probably find that during your flight training you 'll end up leaving the carb heat on while on the ground for short periods . This happens a lot during landing operations when you are instructed to have carb heat on ( my instructor taught me mid-field downwind , " Seat Belts , Gear , Fuel Selector , Carb Heat , Mixture , Prop , Power " ) . You 'll end up leaving it on until you 've cleared the runway ( or set up for a touch-and-go ) and are running your " after landing " checklists .
Many small , light aircraft are equipped with an autopilot today . They can range from very simple autopilots , without altitude selector and so on , <URL> <URL> , ST SYS 30 , $ 12,000 to advanced systems with altitude selector , automatic trim and so on . <URL> <URL> , Bendix/King KFC 225 , $ 15,000 - 42,000 And with this GPS , feeding the autopilot with data , it has the abilities of an airliner . <URL> <URL> , Garmin ® GTN ™ 750 , $ 17,000 You have to know , the systems in the general aviation industry are getting better and better . Of course they are way below the complexity of the avionics of airliners , but the features are the same if not more . For example : A captain of an airliner has to review or change the flight plan with the FMC , respectively MCDU on Airbus , a not very straight-forward device to control the plane . Of course , the FMS has a lot more capabilities than a GA GPS , but one of it 's primary features is the input of the flight plan . And in that , from the usability-view , the Garmin ® GPS has the better solution : An all-in-one navigation device with touchscreen input .
The ka-50 , like other <URL> designs , use their contra-spinning rotors to cancel out the torque in the same way a traditional helicopter uses it 's tail rotor . A traditional single rotor : <URL> Contra-rotating rotors : <URL> There are a few <URL> of the contra-rotating setup , such as Reduced vibration Reduced likelihood of <URL> Reduced likelihood of anti-torque failure during flight .
An assumed temperature takeoff ( also known as " flex " on Airbus/Fokker aircraft ) is where the engine thrust is reduced to match the performance on a higher-temperature day , up to either the maximum thrust reduction allowed or the maximum assumed temperature that meets takeoff distance requirements . Unlike a derate , assumed temperature takeoffs do not reduce the minimum control speed used for calculating takeoff speeds ( $ V _ { MCG } $ for $ V_1 $ , $ V _ { MCA } $ for $ V_2 $ ) . The minimum selectable temperature is the lowest temperature beyond the flat rating temperature range ( the range of temperatures where maximum thrust is achievable , limited by an engine control unit ) , and the highest temperature is the temperature at which the maximum thrust reduction allowed will be met . Except with specific certification and approval ( such as 40 % flex on the A340 ) , such a procedure must not reduce the thrust beyond 25 % of the nominal takeoff thrust ( either full rate or a takeoff derate ) . For example , the range of assumed temperatures permitted is 30-75 ° C ( flat rated to $ ISA +15 $ , thrust at 75 ° C is 75 % of normal rating ) . The main reason for performing an assumed temperature takeoff is to conserve engine life , therefore reducing maintenance costs . According to Boeing , engine wear exponentially increases with the takeoff thrust used -- with engines costing about 10 million USD each , this has the potential to save a lot of money for airlines . If you are taking off using assumed temperature , you may ( but are not required to ) add thrust to TOGA in the case of an emergency , however if you are using a takeoff derate , you must not increase the thrust beyond the derated N1 , as this could cause a loss of control ( higher thrust = higher actual $ V _ { MCG } $ ) . Not all aircraft allow assumed temperature in conjunction with derates . For example , you can only select a derate or a flex temperature on all Airbus aircraft ( if a derate option is offered ) . NOTE : do not attempt to " copy the jet jocks " in a piston aircraft and attempt a reduced throttle takeoff : only at takeoff throttle levels is extra fuel injected for cooling and reduction beyond this point could result in CHT levels rising to unacceptable levels , increasing the risk of engine damage .
That 's a good question , and brings up a joke that many pilots know well : " What 's going to be in the cockpit of the future ? " " A dog and a pilot . " " A dog ? Why a dog ? " " Well , the dog is there to keep the pilot from touching anything . " " Ummm , why have the pilot then ? " " Well , someone has to feed the dog ! " Technology has improved to the point where airplanes can pretty much fly and even land themselves . They are even getting pretty good at handling " normal " emergencies like engine failures and depressurizations . Where pilots really shine though are the type of abnormal and emergency situations that are n't " in the book " . <URL> , a computer will be out of options because it was never programmed to handle that ( because it was considered " virtually impossible " when it was designed ) . A pilot on the other hand can analyze and experiment until he finds enough of a solution to keep the airplane in the air as he works through other issues . During a total electrical failure , the computers wo n't be much good . Sure , you can design redundant systems and make it so that it " can never happen " , but what about when it does ? There are also all of the little things that a pilot is constantly making decisions on how to handle . Some examples could include : Can the airplane fly with a particular feature inoperative ? What about multiple features inoperative ? How do they interact with each other ? What do you do when the passengers take too long to board and you are going to miss your departure slot ? What do you do when the ground crew forgets to close a door ? What about when the tug driver does n't push you back quite far enough ? Or ATC wants to change you to a different runway ? Or you ask ATC to change you to a different runway because it might save a few minutes and that will keep you from having to deice again ? Or another airplane unexpectedly pulls out in front of you while taxiing ? A pilot can see " ugly " clouds off the end of the runway and decide that it would be better to wait a bit before taking off . What happens when a flock of birds suddenly appears during the takeoff roll ? What happens when a passenger gets sick or unruly ? When do you need to divert and when can you continue ? On a typical flight , a pilot will make hundreds of small decisions that can make a big difference in the flight . Any one of these ( or one of the tens or hundreds of thousands of other things that could happen ) could trip up a computer . The pilot is also there as the " final authority " . If a hacker were to somehow hack into the automated systems , a pilot can always disconnect them and fly the airplane manually . He can turn off systems , he can be ... Well , the pilot can be creative and a computer can only do what it was programmed to do . Right now when a drone crashes it is n't such a big deal because nobody was on board . If an airliner with a load full of paying passengers crashes it is a big deal . Even just one . Many of these problems can be overcome . Some of them already have been . Some of them may never be fully handled in an automatic way but maybe we could still do automated flights with an acceptable level of safety . Some automation is actually better than some pilots in certain areas . However , the biggest reason that we do n't have fully automated passenger airplanes is because the general public feels comforted by a person being up front who can take over and carry them to safety if needed . Even if the technology were 100 % ready for automated passenger flights , I think that the number of people willing to purchase a ticket would be so low that it would be financially unfeasible for an airline to deploy it .
You are mostly correct , but the fuselage distorts the airflow in sideslip such that the windward wing sees a higher angle of attack near the root , and the leeward wing a lower angle of attack . Please see the drawing below for an explanation . The blue lines show the sideward component of air flow and the red arrows the resulting rolling moment . This is why low wing airplanes need more dihedral , and high wing planes like your 172 almost none . Wing sweep adds more directional stability , and then you even find aircraft with pronounced anhedral , like the <URL> or the <URL> . See <URL> for more detail on this .
The reason is twofold : The materials used and the high aspect ratio . The 747-8 primarily uses advance aluminum alloys , while the 787 uses carbon composites . The carbon composites flex more compared to the aluminum alloys . This can be achieved because the carbon fibers are anisotropic and their properties can be tailored in each direction . The yield strain of the aluminum alloys used in aerospace is ~ 1 % , while that of the <URL> is about 50 % higher , ~ 1.5 % . These material characteristics mean that the carbon spar can flex more compared to the aluminum one . This effect is magnified by the high aspect ratio of the Boeing 787 . The aspect ratio of the 787 is about <URL> while that of the 747-8 is about <URL> . This means that the wings are more slender and flex more for the same load . The 787 wings are able to take this flexing in part because of the excellent fatigue properties of the Carbon composites used . See <URL> for a very good discussion on the causes and effects of wing flexing in 787 .
Most airliners have a protection system for this which is based on Weight-on-Wheels ( WoW ) : sensors which detect load on the wheels ( which implies that the aircraft is in contact with ground ) . For safety reasons this can be bypassed and there 's usually a small lever in connection to the gear lever to do this . This image illustrates the 737 gear lever where you can clearly see a " lock override " which fills this functionality ( red part ) <URL>
Does the position of the controls for the second motor really influence the behaviour of the first one ? No , it influences the activation of various other systems like the autothrust , the airbrakes , as well as the thrust reversers . how it is more efficient ? Because in the new procedure the engine with non-functioning reverser starts to spool up before the system realizes the reverser did not deploy and cuts it again , so for a moment it produces forward thrust . The old procedure avoids this .
The Suntan project needed all fuselage space to hold three tanks for liquid hydrogen , so the engines had to be placed somewhere else . Placing them near the fuselage would put them in the range of the fuselage 's shock waves . Putting them out on the wing would help with wing bending relief and ensure a clean intake flow . Once they are so far out , you can as well put them on the wingtips , so that they do not cause a pitch-up moment . On the SR-71 , the engines were also placed outside the fuselage and into the wing 's plane , much for the same reasons . Keeping the intake flow uniform is paramount for the undisturbed operation of supersonic intakes , and I assume that Kelly Johnson wanted to make sure that the engines would not suffer an unstart when flying reconnaissance missions over hostile territory . With the little experience in supersonic flight in 1955 it was prudent to avoid built-in pitching moments - after all , the supersonic L/D likely was in the single digits , so an out-of-plane engine placement would had produced more moment than on subsonic aircraft . Hydrogen was selected to achieve the highest possible flight altitude , so the aircraft would be safe from surface-to-air missiles for as long as possible . I initially thought that the wingtip location would enable to cool the hot wing structure by heating up the hydrogen on its way to the engine , but heating was planned to be done with bleed air in a special heat exchanger . Quoting <URL> : The CL-400 design divided the hydrogen tankage into three sections ; the forward tank had a capacity of 67 000 liters ; aft , 54 000 ; and center ( sump ) , 15 000 . The two main tanks were kept at 2.3 atmospheres pressure and the sump tank slightly lower for fuel transfer . In the sump was a booster pump , built by Pesco Products , that supplied liquid hydrogen to the engines at a pressure of 4.4 atmospheres . The engines were mounted at the wing tips , which meant that the liquid hydrogen had to pass through a hot wing with surface temperatures up to 436 K . The design provided a vacuum-jacketed , insulated line for this purpose . Regarding the perceived danger of using hydrogen , <URL> says : Tests were devised in which tanks containing liquid hydrogen under pressure were ruptured . In many cases , the hydrogen quickly escaped without ignition . The experimenters then provided a rocket squib ( a small powder charge ) to ignite the escaping , hydrogen . The resulting fireball quickly dissipated because of the rapid flame speed of hydrogen and its low density . Containers of hydrogen and gasoline were placed side by side and ruptured . When the hydrogen can was ruptured and ignited , the flame quickly dissipated - , but when the same thing was done with gasoline , the gasoline and flame stayed near the container and did much more damage . The gasoline fire was an order of magnitude more severe than the hydrogen fire . The experimenters tried to induce hydrogen to explode , with limited success . In 61 attempts , only two explosions occurred and in both , they had to mix oxygen with the hydrogen . Their largest explosion was produced by mixing a half liter of liquid oxygen with a similar volume of liquid hydrogen . Johnson and Rich were convinced that , with proper care , liquid hydrogen could be handled quite safely and was a practical fuel-a conclusion that was amply verified by the space program in the 1960s . At the time , however , Johnson and Rich filmed their fire and explosion experiments to convince doubters . When work on Suntan started , liquid hydrogen was a laboratory curiosity . Preparing the infrastructure needed for operating the CL-400 , the Suntan project led to the building of large-scale liquid hydrogen plants . Their availability paved the way for the cryogenic rockets of the Apollo program ! Interestingly , a similar engine location was selected by the Russian design bureaus <URL> and <URL> supersonic bomber in the mid-50s . It was started after news of the US Weapon System 110 ( which later led to the XB-70 ) reached Russia and was similarly cancelled after two prototypes had been built and only one aircraft had flown . <URL> M-50 during display in 1961 at Tushino airshow ( picture <URL> ) . Note the similarity of the Mig-21 and M-50 planform - both originated from the same work done at <URL> . Placing the outer engines below the wing would had caused ground contact on rotation . Speaking of rotation : The M-50 had two central gears and the bomb bay between them , and the main gear had to be placed so far aft that the M-50 could not be rotated the usual way with the elevator . So the engineers devised what they called the " galloping bicycle " . When the aircraft reached 300 km/h , the forward gear rapidly extended to rotate it to 10 ° . Placing the outer engines B-58-like below the wing would had required an even longer gear .
It is not only the mass that affects the landing speed . Wing area plays an important role as well . A larger wing can lift more weight at the same speed than a smaller wing . If you compare the wing loading of these aircraft the differences are smaller : A388 : Maximum landing weight : 391000 kg Wing area : 845 m2 Wing loading : 463 kg/m2 B744 : Maximum landing weight : 295000 kg Wing area : 525 m2 Wing loading : 468 kg/m2 F-16A : Estimated landing weight : 13000 kg Wing area : 28 m2 Wing loading : 464 kg/m2
Rotating the propeller of the Cessna 441 Conquest II is to cool the <URL> engine in the aircraft . From <URL> On the Garrett TPE331 's we were trained to spin the props after shutdown to get cooling air flowing through the engine , this was done right after shutdown . Half an hour after we did the prop spins we had go back out to the aircraft and rotate the propellers one blade width . Moving the prop one blade width rotated the engine one half turn , this was to prevent the shaft from sagging as the engine cooled causing turbine blades to rub . The reason is given as : Direct drive turbo prop engines sometimes require this to remove residual heat from the engine because once the prop stops turning , so does the engine . When the pilot turns the prop , depending on the gear ratio , he is actually spinning the engine very fast . This helps move some of the heat out of the engine .
A few different reasons : Good pilots put the aircraft into a well-known ( up ) configuration after landing , so that the aircraft is ready for use on the next flight . Flaps down during taxi was a signal to the tower that the aircraft had been hijacked . Take-off flaps ( 10 degrees on my airplane ) and landing flaps ( 45 degrees ) , are nearly always different , so leaving the flaps down after landing at , say , 45 , does n't save any steps for departure . If the pilots forgets to set flaps before takeoff , some aircraft ( like mine ) will make it almost impossible to depart and climb out on full flaps because of the induced drag , <URL> . Prevent trucks and people from hitting the flaps while the airplane is parked , especially in the full-down ( landing ) configuration . Some pilots employ the practice of <URL> because it puts more weight on the wheels , reducing stopping distance . Flaps down increases the amount of lift generated by the wing , so some aircraft might actually lift off the ground while parked with full flaps in high winds .
The decrease in air means less oxygen . If the fuel is burnt at " rich " there would not be enough oxygen in the air to burn some of the fuel , thus reducing efficiency , increasing the risk of carbon monoxide , and adding grime to the exhaust system . That is why " lean " is used for high altitudes , to burn efficiently and safely .
It helps to know the objective of both ICAO and IATA to understand when which code is used . <URL> ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) is a UN-body which focusses on international harmonization of civil aviation regulations . ICAO codes are used for " official " purposes such as Air Traffic Control ; E.g. flight plans use ICAO codes for airports and airline flight identification . <URL> ( International Air Transport Association ) is a trade association that focusses on making air traffic businesses safe , secure , reliable and efficient . IATA codes are mainly used for ticketing . E.g. travel itineraries use IATA codes for airports and IATA flight numbers .
No , stacking more propellers will reduce efficiency . The case with two is an exception because the second propeller benefits from operating in the slipstream of the first . In total , both propellers accelerate the air backwards without adding swirl losses . However , <URL> goes down with increasing flow speed ahead of the propeller . This means that every other propeller operating in the accelerated flow of a preceding propeller will have lower efficiency . Generally , it will be better to spread the propellers out sideways than to put them in line . Note that contra-rotating props are the exclusive realm of <URL> with very high <URL> . The most recent designs prefer to use more blades and avoid the heavy gearbox , but the <URL> than that of propellers with lower disk loading and fewer blades . In a way , the efficiency of the eight-bladed propellers below is similar to that of four two-bladed propellers in sequence , but it is much easier to build with all blades and their pitch mechanism in one hub . <URL> T-56 engines with Hamilton-Sundstrand NP2000 propellers on an LC-130 . Photograph by Robyn Waserman , National Science Foundation ( Date Taken : November 21 , 2008 )
end question
start question
Where to get information on FAA AIXM 5.0 versions of Special Activity Airpace ( SAA ) files ?
One possibility is to contact the FAA <URL> . They provide information as part of the US Aeronautical Information Services ( AIS ) . NFDC Support Desk email is available on <URL> , below the login data boxes . See also this question : <URL> for other aeronautical data sets in case you need them too .
The language is intentionally vague . Much like Justice Stewart said about pornography , when it comes to " information relating to the safety of flight " <URL> Birds flying around in the approach path ? Yup . Wind shear on short final ? Yup . ( Even if it 's forecast/reported telling them how much airspeed you gained or lost helps . ) " Drone " buzzing around in the traffic pattern ? Yup . Deer grazing in the middle of a grass runway ? Yup . Bird strike ? Absolutely . ( There are regs/procedures specifically for this . ) The guy in row 3J is threatening the flight attendants ? Yup . The guy in row 3J spilled his soda on his lap ? ... Not so much .
The approach to Paro is unbelievably complicated . It is flown visually through a valley with high mountains all around and no sight of the airport until the last moment . Here is a cut of a map with the approach paths : Approach to runway 15 , marked in red , is worse in this regard . The ridge is rather close to the airport , so the final turn usually ends over the runway threshold . The wings get level with 30 -- 50 ft ( 10 -- 15 m ) remaining only ( <URL> ) . The approach to runway 33 , marked in blue , allows a bit more of a straight final , but not by much . In either case the aircraft must emerge from the turn with correct altitude , speed and rate of descent . So the pilot has to know landmarks in the valley and how to judge correct approach profile by them . The approaches also often involve turning around higher in the valleys which again must be done by landmarks at places where it is known to be possible . It is this knowledge pilots have to demonstrate before they can attempt the approach ( as pilots in command ) . There are other airports where pilots have to receive special training to be permitted to fly there , for example the <URL> near St. Moritz in Switzerland , which is similar mix of high altitude , high mountains around and visual approach , though it 's still a lot easier as the airport is visible from much greater distance . There is however nothing similarly difficult on Princess Juliana Airport . It appears approaches to Princess Juliana are only flown to runway 10 and these are over flat sea and flat beach . The runway is visible from great distance and the approach is straight . The featureless water makes it slightly harder to judge height than solid ground , but that 's what the approach lights ( VASI/PAPI ) and distance-altitude table are for ( there is no ILS at TNCM , only VOR-DME ) . And there are many airports with approach over water , so it 's nothing unusual for the pilots . If there was approach to runway 28 , it would have to be off-axis to avoid the hills on the island , but it does not appear to be used at all . The pilot , Marek Tůma , who ferried in and for first 3 months commanded the ATR-42-500 A5-RGH , wrote a 4-part <URL> ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ; unfortunately in Czech ) about flying in Bhutan . According to that the training involved : Couple of hours on simulator ( in Bangkok ) . Then they were permitted to ferry the plane to Paro . Flight as observers with the training captain who showed them all the relevant landmarks in reality . Some practice circuits . They could n't fly with the training captain in the other seat , because they were ATR-42 pilots and the training captain flies A320-family ( and possibly still has rating for the older BAe146 , but not ATR-42 ) . He also wrote that while on early flights when temperatures are still low the performance is good , later in the day it becomes marginal and they often needed to follow the valley quite far before they managed to climb above the mountains . Careful planning and weight and balance calculation was always necessary .
The same way it is done in small airplanes and older airlines -- toe brakes . The rudder pedals translate forward and back to actuate the rudder and they pivot around the lateral axis to actuate the brake system . Each pedal independently controls only the brakes on its side of the airplane ( e.g both pilots left toe brake actuates the brakes on the left main gear ) . Planes will often have an emergency or parking brake , which will be a lever somewhere that actuates the brake system . This system , outside of emergencies is only used when the plane is not moving and you want it to remain that way . Larger airplanes with also sometimes have autobrakes which provide a triggered automatic application of a certain level of braking . This kind of system is used both to provide automatic maximum braking for a rejected takeoff ( RTO ) and some lesser automatic braking upon landing rollout . To summarize , for taxi and ground movement the brake input is coming from the toe brakes . When the aircraft is stopped , brake input will be transferred from the toe brakes to the parking brake . When the plane lands , if it is so equipped and enabled , the autobrakes will begin brake application and the pilot will take over with the toe brakes and continue to use toe brakes for the taxi in .
This probably wo n't cause you any practical trouble unless you go for a new certificate or rating ( the data on your medical needs to match the data on your IACRA form which needs to match your existing certificates - an examiner may refuse to conduct a test if there are discrepancies ) . It 's something you should correct though : It 's presumed your hair color on the medical is your natural hair color , and if you get ramp checked you do n't want to have to explain the discrepancy . Counterintuitively the answer for " How do I fix this ? " is buried <URL> : Q : The data on my medical certificate does not match what is in the FAA Airman Registry database , what should I do ? A : If it is less than 60 days since the date of issue of your certificate , contact your AME ( Aeromedical Examiner ) for resolution of this issue . If it is 60 days or more since the date of issue of your certificate , contact the FAA Aerospace Medical Certification Division for resolution of this issue . The contact info is below .
Pressure Altitude As defined by FAA in the <URL> : Pressure altitude is the height above a standard datum plane ( SDP ) , which is a theoretical level where the weight of the atmosphere is 29.92 " Hg ( 1,013.2 mb ) as measured by a barometer . An altimeter is essentially a sensitive barometer calibrated to indicate altitude in the standard atmosphere . If the altimeter is set for 29.92 " Hg SDP , the altitude indicated is the pressure altitude . As atmospheric pressure changes , the SDP may be below , at , or above sea level . Pressure altitude is important as a basis for determining airplane performance , as well as for assigning flight levels to airplanes operating at or above 18,000 feet . The pressure altitude can be determined by either of two methods : 1 . Setting the barometric scale of the altimeter to 29.92 and reading the indicated altitude . 2 . Applying a correction factor to the indicated altitude according to the reported altimeter setting . <URL> From <URL> § 91.217 Data correspondence between automatically reported pressure altitude data and the pilot 's altitude reference . ( a ) No person may operate any automatic pressure altitude reporting equipment associated with a radar beacon transponder -- ( 1 ) When deactivation of that equipment is directed by ATC ; ( 2 ) Unless , as installed , that equipment was tested and calibrated to transmit altitude data corresponding within 125 feet ( on a 95 percent probability basis ) of the indicated or calibrated datum of the altimeter normally used to maintain flight altitude , with that altimeter referenced to 29.92 inches of mercury for altitudes from sea level to the maximum operating altitude of the aircraft ; or ( 3 ) Unless the altimeters and digitizers in that equipment meet the standards of TSO-C10b and TSO-C88 , respectively . ( b ) No person may operate any automatic pressure altitude reporting equipment associated with a radar beacon transponder or with ADS-B Out equipment unless the pressure altitude reported for ADS-B Out and Mode C/S is derived from the same source for aircraft equipped with both a transponder and ADS-B Out . ICAO has described how they calculate Pressure Altitude <URL> <URL> When the ISA mean sea level standard pressure of 1013.2 hPa is set on an aircraft altimeter subscale , the height so indicated upon landing at an airfield is known as the QNE reading . More widely , this is also the PRESSURE ALTITUDE , which is alternatively defined as the height of any level in the international standard atmosphere ( ISA-see above ) , above the level corresponding to a pressure of 1013.2 hPa . <URL> to calculate standard atmospheric conditions ( ISA ) at a given geometric or pressure altitude and ambient temperature .
Airport designers may use any type of material , based on construction research status and local meteorological conditions . Pavements may be flexible or rigid . There is no single technique to protect against wear and tear , and none specific to airports , this is similar to regular road construction . Information on <URL> at <URL> . E.g. a rigid pavement : FAA provides advisories to help designers . ICAO requires airports to report their pavement characteristics . ( source : <URL> ) FAA documentation related to pavement design : <URL> <URL> ICAO requires member states to report aerodrome-related aeronautical data , including pavement strength . The standardized method is known as the <URL> method . As a critical characteristic of a pavement is the friction , this matter is refined in <URL> . This document includes data on rubber removal frequency , e.g. Busy runway end : ( source : <URL> ) A technique for rubber removal : ( source : <URL> ) This thesis describes how to optimize runway pavements in order to increase friction and how to remove rubber deposit : <URL> by Samantha Theresa Pinto . Note that : Rubber accumulation on a dry runway is generally not a problem since the rubber interaction between the aircraft tire and the rubber on the runway creates traction that may actually improve friction . However , in wet conditions , rubber accumulation leads to loss of friction on the runway by clogging the pavement texture and creating an especially slick surface with minimal drainage capability when the runway surface is wet . Additionally , rubber accumulation causing decreased friction values means pilots have less directional control of the aircraft than expected on a bare and dry runway .
They are searchable at FNS NOTAM search : <URL> A link is provided to a PDF , containing a link to the actual LTA . ( Filter by LTA , remember the agreement might not be with the airport , but with the ATSU , like the local TRACON/ARTCC , try searching by airport name + radius ) . Expiry date is shown in the details view .
They send it to the manufacturer ( or other lab ) who knows how to get the data out . Old black boxes stored the data on tape which they take out put in a reader and print out the data . Partially damaged tape can still be read , the result will be a data stream with holes in it . Newer black boxes use solid state storage ( like one of those 8gig memory cards ) . It will be put in a reader to read it out . The exact format of the data will be specific per manufacturer . Then the analysts will make nice graphs of it for the investigators .
Ca n't hurt to ask ! I do n't know the specifics of the situation , but I would be willing to bet that your chances are better than you think . If it was one farmer with a grass strip and no accommodations for visiting aircraft you might be out of luck , but from what you describe it does n't sound like one extra airplane on the ground for a few hours is going to make that much of a difference . In fact , it might be that Fred ( or whoever ) will also be visiting friends for Labor Day and might be willing to let you use his ramp . They ca n't say yes if you do n't ask .
I work in this area and , to my knowledge , I never heard about any special aid to help the pilot . They know precisely which are the wind speed limitations to do the work safely , the rest is basically skill . What they do install in helicopters , is the so called Wire Strike Protection System ( WSPS ) , which should cut the cable if the helicopter strikes it , avoiding damages on the main rotor ( see the picture <URL> that Bell has two WSPS , one over the cabin another underneath the avionics bay ) . But this is more important on power line inspection , which is made at around 60-80 km/h with cameras and LiDARs . When the helicopter is hovering by the cables this does n't bring much aid . But this is a risky job anyway and if you search , you will find plenty of accidents which happened with helicopters and power lines .
Many of these are Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics ( RTCA ) standards . You can get these documents from the <URL> . They are provided free of charge to RTCA members , non-members have to pay . Alternatively you can acquire the European equivalents from EUROCAE ( RTCA DO-178B is <URL> in the <URL> ) . If you want to be up-to-date ( for example if you 're building a new avionics system ) , you should buy the latest version of the standard , such as <URL> / <URL> , which is the latest edition of your example above ( published in 2012 ) .
The short and general answer is : No . The ATIS is only a VHF recording , but even when recorded digitally , it is not available in a text-base form in many cases which would allow being made public on the internet . In the case of D-ATIS , the information can only be obtained using <URL> , other systems such as <URL> require special equipment . With modern technology and communication , some airports have started to use Twitter to broadcast ATIS , however they should not be used for flight purposes , but are only for entertainment . ( Image Source : <URL> - Account : @yssyatis )
Based on the country you are looking for the certification , rules may be slightly changed . For India following syllabus is applicable ( Source : atcguild.com ) At present it is a year-long ab-initio training ( Under revision to make it in two sections of six months each ) Modules : Air Traffic Services Aerodromes and Ground Aids Air Legislation Meteorology Communication Procedures Technical Search and Rescue Air Navigation The selection shall be made on the basis of a Written test 50 % questions on subjects relating to educational qualifications prescribed 50 % on General Knowledge , General Intelligence , General Aptitude , English etc. . Voice test Personal Interview Medical fitness as per ICAO Annex-1 I Googled for the subject , but did n't find much information on the paper patterns or example papers .
For <URL> NOTAMs , you can find it via <URL> , in either map or text format . If an SUA on a chart has defined hours , stick to those . Example after downloading the text data : <URL> Map example ( layer control is useful ) : <URL> Color indicates if active or scheduled and how far in the future .
ICAO has defined in their Annexes that English is only one of the available langauges to ICAO and that ATS should either use the language specified in the country 's AIP or use English . 1.2.9 Language proficiency 1.2.9.1 Aeroplane , airship , helicopter and powered-lift pilots , air traffic controllers and aeronautical station operators shall demonstrate the ability to speak and understand the language used for radiotelephony communications to the level specified in the language proficiency requirements in Appendix 1 . Note 2 . -- The provisions of 1.2.9 refer to Annex 10 , Volume II , Chapter 5 , whereby the language used for radiotelephony communications may be the language normally used by the station on the ground or English . In practice , therefore , there will be situations whereby flight crew members will only need to speak the language normally used by the station on the ground . Personally , additional to my proficiency level in English , I also hold a Level 6 language proficiency German in my pilot 's license . Below is a screenshot of the Aerodrome Description for LEBL/Barcelona , taken from Spain 's AIP . You see that ES/EN is listed as available languages . <URL> If you are looking for Spanish Phraseology , you can find it with <URL> .
YouTube is really your best bet - is there any reason you would n't be able to use one of the many <URL> ? If you need a release for legal reasons NASA is famously liberal about granting rights to their research/educational videos - just contact then and you 'll almost certainly get an official " Sure , you can use it ! "
The elasticity of the fuselage does indeed dampen the load factors from gusts somewhat . Therefore , gust-induced accelerations are a little higher over the wing than in the forward or rear fuselage . If the gust causes a pitching motion , this creates its own accelerations which adds to the bumps from the vertical accelerations . Elevator deflections cause similar pitching motions , and their accelerations are more pronounced in the rear fuselage since the aircraft will pivot around a point ahead of the center of gravity . The main factor , however , is the location of the axis of rotation of the <URL> of airliners . This is a weakly damped oscillation which creates lateral accelerations which are bigger the more aft you sit in the fuselage . The <URL> was hurriedly test-flown with nobody sitting in the back , and the pilots were happy with its comfort level . The first passengers , however , got seasick from the Dutch roll motion , which was only detected when the passengers sitting in the rear of the cabin complained . Modern airliners offer better comfort thanks to artificially enhanced stability , but even there you are better off sitting in front . I once flew on an <URL> <URL> from Cairo to Frankfurt , and the captain flew through the tops of <URL> sitting over the Alps . Soon the obvious sounds and smell told me that people in the back were filling their air sickness bags . Maybe half of the rear third of the seats was affected , while the forward two thirds had only a few cases of airsick passengers .
1 ) ADS-B will stop working when the transponder is switched off at the gate after arrival in Tokyo . Airliners use the 1090 MHz Extended Squitter variety of ADS-B which is the worldwide standard . 2 ) I do n't have hard numbers but I guess it is approximately 90 percent of the flights . At most economical cruise flight levels , ADS-C is mandatory . 3 ) ADS-C is a common system . For aircraft not equipped , position reporting of HF is the alternative . And soon space based ADS-B will be available as well .
Depending on the airline , and the size of the aircraft , the Weight and Balance calculations for each flight are either done by the pilots , or by the Flight Operations , Load Department . If it is done by the pilots , they will receive the loading information which contains the weight and location of all passengers , cargo , and fuel . They then calculate manually , or by using software , the exact center of gravity . If done by the Load Department , the center of gravity information will be communicated by radio or ACARS datalink . It is not unusual to require a last minute seating or cargo change in order to ensure the aircraft is within the proper center of gravity limits for takeoff .
end question
start question
In a dogfight , can a pilot shoot down a parachute ?
You question is a question of rules of engagement . Shooting down a downed pilot in a dogfight is not only not OK , but also illegal . According to <URL> , No person parachuting from an aircraft in distress shall be made the object of attack during his descent . Of course , war is war and this kind of attacks <URL> by pilots of almost all air forces , though it should be noted that in most cases , this practice was specifically prohibited by their high commands .
Yes , the mechanic can fly the aircraft , according to <URL> ( Williams , 2014 ) : The scenario you present is a mechanic who , as part of his duties , conducts flight tests after performing maintenance on the aircraft , and does not carry passengers or property for compensation or hire . The mechanic holds a private pilot certificate with a valid third class medical certificate . This situation is covered under § 61.113 ( b ) , which states that , " [ a ] private pilot may , for compensation or hire , act as pilot in command of an aircraft in connection with any business or employment if ( 1 ) the flight is only incidental to that business or employment and ( 2 ) the aircraft does not carry passengers or property for compensation or hire . " As these flight tests are incidental to his employment as a mechanic , the mechanic is not in violation of § 61.113 when conducting these flight tests
This depends where in the world you are , over civilian US territory military planes chose to operate under the FAA FAR 's ( although they are not explicitly legally required to ) , as such its pretty cut and dry <URL> No pilot in command of a civil aircraft may allow any object to be dropped from that aircraft in flight that creates a hazard to persons or property . However , this section does not prohibit the dropping of any object if reasonable precautions are taken to avoid injury or damage to persons or property . Elsewhere in the world the rules may vary . There may also be rules about dropping tanks over open water due to their being residual fuel in the tanks . <URL> <URL> would indicate that they are actually not dropped all that often .
No The way that both pilots can log PIC is that the pilot using a view limiting device is logging PIC as sole manipulator and the safety pilot is logging PIC because he is acting PIC and a required crew member . If the flight is operating under an instrument clearance then the acting PIC must be instrument rated . If only the pilot with the view limiting device is rated then he is acting PIC and is the only one eligible to log PIC . The safety pilot is also not allowed to log SIC as a required crewmember without an instrument rating while operating under IFR . If you are in actual IMC then you should n't be logging anything and they other guy should n't be wearing a view limiting device . If you want the PIC time ask your friend to fly VFR or get yourself an instrument rating .
Does normal laws apply when the aircraft nose is vertically down ? Yes , always . Physics does n't care much about the aircraft 's attitude and can not be switched into different modes . While the nose points straight down , a stall is hard to achieve since no lift is needed - the weight is balanced by drag and inertia . However , when you pull abruptly and start to pitch up , the aircraft can stall while the overall attitude is still partially nose-down . If the pitch inertia is small , the rotation about the lateral axis will increase the angle of attack quickly while the flight path is still more or less straight down . At this attitude the stall angle of attack can be exceeded and the aircraft will stall . This is not unusual - pilots are routinely warned not to pull too hard after ending a spin . And yes , entering the next spin is entirely possible . This is especially likely when the sideslip angle has not been set to zero after ending the first spin . In most cases , this second , unintended , spin is in the opposite direction from the first spin because the pilot maintained his anti-spin rudder deflection for too long . There have even been cases of <URL> . A few details will help , though . A high pitch rate will delay the stall to an angle of attack <URL> than the <URL> at zero pitch rate . Flying faster will increase the Reynolds number , so stall is slightly delayed when compared to the stall conditions at 1g . Both effects , however , will increase the wing root bending moment , and pulling out of a dive will run a real risk of breaking off the wings when you pull too hard .
<URL> ( <URL> ) Viewing the full resolution image from the link might help you notice things to use . Steering the yoke right and left controls the aircraft 's roll . Pulling/pushing the control column controls the aircraft 's pitch ( nose up/down ) . Radio altimeter is used in landing , it offers precise measurement of height above ground . Landing gear lever , down is wheels down . Airspeed indicator shows how fast the plane is going . 12 o'clock position , not going anywhere . Moves clockwise with speed increase . Flaps lever : fully down for take-off/landing from short field . Power levers : push away from you , full power . Pull all the way back , full reverse , which is useful in stopping the plane especially on ice . Do n't use the brakes in your novel if the runway is icy . Trim wheel : pilot will use it to fine tune the approach . And after take-off to make pulling the control column easier . You can <URL> ( head-mounted GoPro ) .
Qualification : I worked at a busy drop zone for 10 years . Just announce yourself on the airfield frequency about 5-10 minutes out and they 'll tell you what 's going on , including which runway is active and how high they are jumping from - standard altitudes are 3000ft and 12,000 ft AGL . At our place it was really simple : left-hand for 34 , right-hand for 16 . We landed everyone on the east side , and if we are dropping at 3000 all day you can just pop up to 4000 and be completely out of the way . Under no circumstances make a cross-field pass as that 's usually right in the middle of everyone else 's landing pattern , and we do n't carry radios . If you are just passing by a 2km buffer is lots - no one is likely to be in the air that far away . No reply usually means nothing in the air .
To the best of my knowledge , all commercial aircraft being tested have their pilots take on parachutes and hi-vis clothing in addition to creating a possible means of egress on all important flights , such as the first flight and high-speed tests . Since getting the cabin doors open is practically difficult , the solution I think most producers use is to built a chute down the front cargo entrance which can open . Bombardier produced a <URL> for their new CSeries . Here 's the solution employed on the Concorde : <URL>
If you hold a Sport Pilot certificate and are looking to upgrade it to a Private Pilot certificate , your best bet is to use the requirements of <URL> . All of the flight time you logged earning a Sport Pilot certificate applies towards Private , but additional hours and types of flight time need to be logged . The requirements for each are paraphrased below . You 'd have to log the difference , which is a minimum of 20 hours , including another 5 hours of dual and 5 hours of solo . There 's a lot more to it than what I reference below , but this is the basics . How much of the training will have to be re-done ? This should vary wildly from pilot to pilot . You 'll need to redo training as required to meet standards . If you 're transitioning right away , theoretically none , but it 's likely that some retraining will be required . Does it depend on the type of your flight instructor 's certificate ? Yes . If the instructor has only a sport pilot instructor certificate , none of the dual instruction hours are able to be counted for the private pilot dual hours criteria . They are not an " authorized instructor " for private pilot privileges . If the CFI had a CFI-airplane certificate then those dual hours working towards the sport pilot certificate will count toward the dual hour requirements of the private pilot . See the <URL> Required for Sport ( <URL> ) Required for Private ( <URL> ) If you 've chosen a flight school that operates a Part 141 program , you get to do it all over . Hooray !
The answer is no , but some shifting of the center of gravity ( c.g. ) due to attitude is unavoidable . Tanks are subdivided so the c.g. shift within a single tank is small . You can notice the sloshing after a landing when the aircraft has come to a complete stop after taxiing : It will gently rock back and forth due to the sloshing in the tanks . Some fighter aircraft use a sponge-like mesh in their tanks which is very effective in breaking up sloshing . It takes up approx . 2 % of internal volume . However , in a nose-up attitude the fuel will still collect at the back of the tanks , and again only distributing fuel over several tanks will prevent a significant c.g. shift . Subdividing also helps in spanwise direction to prevent high loads on wing ribs when the aircraft rolls . Remember , an F-16 has a top roll rate of 720 ° / s , which creates a significant inertial pressure on the wing 's tank walls .
Pretty simple , powered parachutes fall under the ultralight vehicle category , which is <URL> : <URL> : No person may operate an ultralight vehicle over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement , or over any open air assembly of persons . And Also : <URL> No person may operate an ultralight vehicle within Class A , Class B , Class C , or Class D airspace or within the lateral boundaries of the surface area of Class E airspace designated for an airport unless that person has prior authorization from the ATC facility having jurisdiction over that airspace . It is highly unlikely that you would get a waiver to fly your PPC in the Manhattan Class-B , even if 103.15 did n't preclude it in the first place . You can fly in Class-B in certain areas , but you do need to be talking to ATC .
The <URL> says yes granted the cockpit is approved and the required additional equipment is met ( refer to EASA AFM ) . Minimum Flight Crew : One pilot ( in the left pilot seat ) plus additional equipment as specified in the Limitations Section of the EASA Approved Airplane Flight Manual The related note : Approval for operation with a minimum crew of one pilot ( in the left pilot seat ) is based upon the cockpit equipment installation and arrangement evaluated during ANAC certification testing . No significant changes may be made to the installed cockpit equipment or arrangement ( EFIS , autopilot , avionics , etc. ) , except as permitted by the approved MMEL , without prior approval from the responsible Aircraft Certification Office .
The ILS , or precisely the components localizer and glidepath antennas can be shut off , as they are electronic devices that emit radio signals . They can be turned off and on by ATC where required , e.g. having the same ILS frequency for two opposite runways and you only want one to be active at the same time or they can be shut down by maintenance directly at the emitters . ILS are usually not powered by UPS , so they will not be available during power outages . If equipment is being shut down for maintenance or other reasons , you will see this mentioned in the <URL> , such as here from Cologne/Bonn Airport , where the glidepath portion of the ILS runway 24 is out of service : ( Source : <URL> )
Pilot 's breath is not recorded on a flight data recorder , as it is not one of <URL> . However , if a pilot is breathing abnormally , the cockpit voice recorder may easily detect that as the breathing sound is captured by the CVR . A reference to this can be found in the <URL> for Germanwings flight 4U9525 , which states : ... the only sound to come from Lubitz is the sound of him breathing , picked up by the microphone on his headphone set . ... " We could hear human breathing inside the cabin , " said Mr Robin , " and this breathing noise we heard up until the moment of final impact . That means that the co-pilot was alive . Apparently he was breathing normally , so this is not someone having a heart attack , for example .
You have a couple of options here : As Skip Miller said , you can take flight lessons . Up until you want to solo , you do n't need a medical certificate . Often flight schools have " Discovery Flights " for a reduced cost that still allows you to fly left seat and get half an hour to an hour of flight . Careful though , its addicting . Actual costs for this range from \ $ 75 to over \ $ 300 depending on the type of aircraft you are going to fly . Hourly rates for a Cessna 152 average around \ $ 90 an hour , to a 172 up to \ $ 150 an hour , and more sleek aircraft like a Cirrus SR-22 at \ $ 300 per hour or more . Instructor rates go from \ $ 35 per hour to \ $ 65 per hour ( typically ) depending on the type of instruction . Another option is to find a pilot who wants to build hours and go flying . They may let you fly the airplane around a little bit , but you 'll most likely be flying right seat and probably wo n't let you do the more complicated phases of flight like take-off/landing and operations in controlled airspace . If you find a pilot willing to do this then you can share costs ( split down the middle ) . By the way do n't get discouraged about your medical condition if you really want to fly . There are also a few options there too . First , you could go through the rather lengthy process with the FAA to have your case reviewed and if possible issued a special issuance medical certificate . Some of what you list are automatically disqualifying depending on the medications you may take , but <URL> and getting medicals issued . Second , you could get a sport pilot license , which also does not require a medical ( just a drivers license ) . There may be hiccups with your conditions here too , so its best to talk to an AME or flight instructor before getting too deep . Let me answer your specific question : Is there a way I can fly with a copilot without a pilot 's license ? I take this to mean that the " copilot " is a non-pilot rated passenger . Unless you are a certificated pilot , then no . A " co-pilot " must be just that , a pilot . Otherwise they are just a passenger sitting in the front seat . Since that person is a passenger , you must be a fully licensed pilot to fly with them ( students can not take passengers ) . If the copilot is a pilot rated individual , then yes , you can go flying with them ( provided it is not a Part 135 flight ) . That person must be rated for the aircraft that you are flying and must meet currency requirements to carry passengers ( you ) . <URL> under the supervision of the pilot provided the pilot is pilot in command and unless the pilot is a CFI , they are not providing instruction .
There is an excellent answer at <URL> The <URL> is a ground attack fighter unsuited to intercepting and/or shooting down 777s . If the Ukrainian air force wanted to do so , they have better aircraft available . The SU-25 max speed is slower than a cruising 777 . The SU-25 has an operational ceiling of 16000 ft with max weapons to 23000 ft clean , MH17 was at 33000 ft. It is an unpressurised aircraft . As a ground attack aircraft it probably only rarely carries air to air missiles . It can carry the R-60 infra-red air-to-air missile which has a 6 lb warhead effective against small aircraft . An R-60 once hit and destroyed one engine of a small BAE 125 business jet at 35000 ft but failed to bring it down , apparently the missile failed to explode . <URL> , a Boeing 707 , was hit by an R-60 and made an emergency landing 40 minutes later . The R-60 is a short-range missile ( 5 miles ) . The Russians claim the SU-25 came within two or three miles of MH17 . On the whole this makes the SU-25 a poor choice for shooting down a cruising 777 . It seems unlikely that a 777 would be shot down in this way . Not impossible , but far less likely than other proposed scenarios such as those involving BUK ( SA-11 ) ground to air missiles . Results of an <URL> . Results of an <URL> ... two R-60s were launched , one missed . These R-60s were fired by supersonic interceptors , not by SU-25 ground-attack aircraft .
I 've found some useful research here : <URL> The image shows the situation for high angles of $ \ beta $ : At large angles of sideslip with swept horizontal tails , the loading will probably not be antisymmetrical mainly because of the difference in lift effectiveness of the leading and trailing portions of the horizontal tail caused by the difference in their effective sweep angles . This would result in a net lift induced on the horizontal tail which is a function of sideslip and tail height . This possible effect of tail height is illustrated in sketch 9 for large positive sideslip angles : <URL> <URL> Interesting to see is that the model has no wings , so we can rule out any causes related to wings , in case people were thinking in this direction . I putsome more thought into it , and I drew these diagrams , which helped me understand the things being said in the paper . The blue pluses and minuses are the resulting velocities caused by the horizontal velocity as a function of the sideslip ( $ V _ { \ beta } $ ) . The red distributions are the forces on the elevator as consequence of this $ V _ { \ beta } $ . This component creates an increased velocity over the left side of the rudder , and a decreased velocity over the right side of the rudder . If there 's no sweep , the effects are equally strong , and no effect on the lift is present ( denoted by the top two images ) However , if there 's sweep , the effect on the left side is less strong , whereas it is stronger on the right side ( indicated by the two tails in the bottom row ) . In a T-tail , this stronger influence is acting on the lower side of the tail . As it is a minus ( meaning a relative reduction in velocity ) , it will lead to a reduction in suction on the lower side , or an upward force , causing a pitch down . In a normal tail , the minus will act over the upper surface . It causes a deceleration of the flow over the elevator , thereby reducing the lift it generates . This causes a pitch up movement . <URL>
The most common case to pitch down is to speed up , not to reduce altitude , for example when transitioning from a climb ( at climb speed ) to level flight ( accelerating to cruise speed ) . You can transition to level flight by reducing thrust , but that 'll leave you level at climb speed , and is usually not what you want . Changing configuration will usually require pitching changes to maintain stable flight . In particular during the approach-to-landing , extending the flaps will substantially increase the drag , and in order to maintain airspeed , you 'll need to pitch the nose down . If you do n't , you 'll bleed off airspeed and potentially eventually stall unless you overpower the drag with thrust . There are of course unusual circumstances that will require a pitch-down as well , obstacle avoidance for example ( e.g. airplanes ) . As mentioned in the comments , to make a speedy descent you 'll probably also want to pitch down ( such as in case of pressurization problems or fire on board ) .
FAA This is a compilation of what I could find relevant to the question . Feel free to come up with corrections if I missed anything ( I 'm an EASA FCL guy ) Co-pilot Landing Currency : Part 61 : 3 takeoff/landings in previous 12 months ( 61.55 ) Part 135 : no requirements other than those in part 61 ( above ) Part 121 : 3 takeoff/landings in previous 90 days ( 121.439 ) Co-pilot Instrument Currency : Part 61 : no requirements for SIC Part 135 : 135.245 requires that SIC 's must meet part 61 PIC instrument currency requirements in 61.57 ( c ) ( see below ) Part 121 : recurrent flight training every 12 months , including at least 1 ILS approach to minimums Following is the list of relevant FARs : <URL> ( b ) Except as provided in paragraph ( d ) of this section , no person may serve as a second in command of an aircraft type certificated for more than one required pilot flight crewmember or in operations requiring a second in command unless that person has within the previous 12 calendar months : ( 2 ) Except as provided in paragraph ( e ) of this section , performed and logged pilot time in the type of aircraft or in a flight simulator that represents the type of aircraft for which second-in-command privileges are requested , which includes -- ( i ) Three takeoffs and three landings to a full stop as the sole manipulator of the flight controls ; ( d ) This section does not apply to a person who is :[ ... operating part 121,125,135 ... ] ( e ) The holder of a commercial or airline transport pilot certificate with the appropriate category and class rating is not required to meet the requirements of paragraph ( b ) ( 2 ) of this section , provided the pilot : [ ... is not carrying paying passengers ... ] <URL> ( a ) General experience . ( 1 ) Except as provided in paragraph ( e ) of this section , no person may act as a pilot in command of an aircraft carrying passengers or of an aircraft certificated for more than one pilot flight crewmember unless that person has made at least three takeoffs and three landings within the preceding 90 days , [ ... ] ( c ) Instrument experience . Except as provided in paragraph ( e ) of this section , no person may act as pilot in command under IFR or in weather conditions less than the minimums prescribed for VFR , unless within the preceding 6 calendar months , that person has : [ ... 6 approaches , holdings , intercepting &amp; tracking course ... ] <URL> ( a ) [ ... ] no certificate holder may use any person , nor may any person serve , as second in command of an aircraft unless that person holds at least a commercial pilot certificate with appropriate category and class ratings and an instrument rating . For flight under IFR , that person must meet the recent instrument experience requirements of part 61 of this chapter . This is an excerpt from an <URL> concerning 135.245 : Next , unlike a PIC , an SIC 's qualification to operate an aircraft under IFR in part 135 service is not dependent on compliance with § 135.297 . Rather , § 135.245 sets the qualifications for pilots serving as SIC in part 135 operations . It states that a pilot must meet the instrument experience requirements of part 61 to serve as SIC in flight under IFR . Section 61.57 ( c ) sets out the recent instrument flight experience requirements which include , among other things , six instrument approaches within the previous six months . See Legal Interpretation to Gerald Naekel , from Donald P. Byrne , Assistant Chief Counsel Regulations and Enforcement Division ( June 18 , 1991 ) ( noting that although the section title refers to pilots in command , the instrument recency requirements of that section apply to SICs ) . <URL> ( a ) No certificate holder may use any person , nor may any person serve , as pilot in command of an aircraft carrying passengers unless , within the preceding 90 days , that person has -- ( 1 ) Made three takeoffs and three landings as the sole manipulator of the flight controls in an aircraft of the same category and class and , if a type rating is required , of the same type in which that person is to serve ; or [ ... ] <URL> ( c ) Recurrent training . ( 1 ) No certificate holder may use any person nor may any person serve as a required crewmember on an airplane unless , within the preceding 12 calendar months -- ( i ) For flight crewmembers , he has satisfactorily completed recurrent ground and flight training for that airplane and crewmember position and a flight check as applicable ; <URL> ( a ) No certificate holder may use any person nor may any person serve as a required pilot flight crewmember , unless within the preceding 90 days , that person has made at least three takeoffs and landings in the type airplane in which that person is to serve . EASA FCL is very clear about it : PIC and co-pilot both need to be landing current . If holding an IR rating then specific night currency is not required . No instrument
For tours , call the facility and say you 're interested in aviation , and would like a tour , same as pilots . Depending on the facility , business hour tours are preferred , though others will let you come any time they have available staffing to escort you around . As far as I know , there are no video feed of any ATC facilities .
end question
start question
What is the maximum number of planes a controller can control ?
There is no fix maximum a controller is allowed to have under control , as <URL> already pointed out . The airspace under control of ATC is divided up into sectors containing the airways to and from airports within that sector or in upper sectors , airways just for en-route traffic . ( see also : <URL> ) . Sectors can be merged during off-peak hours , split back into separate sectors during peak hours and in the case of TMA or approach sectors , the controller owning the sector can receive additional help by splitting the approach sector further and using different controllers for different tasks within that sector : Feeder/Pickup - Director - Departure Controller . The thresholds of when a sector is split is dependent on many factors , like weather , runway in use , outside influences like adjacent sectors having more traffic that usual , special occurances within that sector like parachute jumper drops . Sectors also vary in size and capacity based on their intended use . While TMA/Approach sectors are rather small and need to accomodate arriving traffic into an airfield , an enroute or upper sector can be significantly larger in size , lateral and vertical . Again , this is individual to each sector , because some factors which hold true for TMA sectors do not apply to enroute upper sectors and vice versa . It also really depends on the controller working the sector and his personal limits , favorite procedures and work practice . A few examples : A TMA controller using vectors to the approach instead of standard arrival routes or transitions will have more workload to monitor and sequence aircraft . The minimum radar separation in TMA sectors and upper sectors can be either 3NM or 5NM . While upper sectors are larger in size , they have to maintain a greater separation , so in some cases , an upper sector twice or multiple times the size of a TMA sector will only be able to accomodate the same number of aircraft ( ceteris paribus ) before reaching saturation . A controller having to work with special situations such as aircraft in distress or student pilots requiring more attention than experienced pilots , will reduce the controllers personal capacity . In summary , to answer your question : There is a situation and controller based threshold , at which saturation will be reached . Controllers are trained to anticipate this threshold and make their supervisor aware of the situation beforehand , so that measures can be taken . There is however no fixed numerical maximum , unless specified in the ARTCC/ACC 's operating procedures .
consider if you Google a flight number you can see the flight status , imagine if the number was from a past crash , you might for a moment think the one you 're looking up had crashed <URL>
The EUROCONTROL example you give , allows controllers from all member states to work in Maastricht Upper Area Control ( Netherlands ) and provide ATC over Belgium , ( part of ) Germany , Luxembourg and the Netherlands . Many of the controllers there are not from any of these four countries so they are foreign air traffic controllers . Also EUROCONTROL is only providing Upper Area Control above the four countries mentioned above . All member states have their own Air Traffic Control providers , some have more than one . Within EU countries ( note that not all EUROCONTROL member states are EU member states ) we have freedom of labour movement . So for EU citizens there should be no official barriers to work as a foreign controller in another EU member state . Apart from the intra-EU rules , some ATC organisation within the EU are open to applications from outside the EU . For example the Dutch Air Traffic Control Organisation LVNL is open to <URL> . Applicants are not limited to citizens of EU countries . ATC at airports is becoming a commercial business . The companies that you mentioned provide civil ATC at various airports around the world . Another example is ATC at London Gatwick Airport : the contract was <URL> . Outside the EU I know that there are many foreign controllers work in the United Arab Emirates . They are looking for <URL> at this moment as well .
AOPA has <URL> on exactly this question ( written by an attorney ) . Their advice is basically that it 's a judgement call on your part and one that you should think about carefully . Not calling may antagonize the FAA , but calling if it 's a major safety issue may be unwise : That does n't necessarily mean , however , that you should call the telephone number or respond to the FAA 's letter , and blather the most expansive defense you can conjure up . A little judgment is called for here -- and , unfortunately , there are no hard and fast rules . If you think the FAA may be inclined to just admonish you orally or content itself with administrative action , then a humble , cooperative approach may be best . Saying you wo n't talk without a lawyer , when the likely outcome if you do talk is minor , may only prompt the FAA to propose sterner action . Before you talk , however , think carefully about what you want to say , how much to say , what questions the FAA is likely to ask and how you 'll answer them . If , on the other hand , there is a substantial chance the FAA will take certificate action against you or will propose a fine , the best course of action , as I said above , is to hire an attorney . Do n't ignore the FAA ; be polite , but do n't provide more information than the bare outlines of what is already known and obvious to all . State quietly that you understand the FAA 's desire to investigate possible violations , that you take your obligations to fly safely very seriously , and that you will be happy to cooperate . Also say that , unless the FAA is not contemplating action against you , you feel it best to consult a lawyer before proceeding . Since the FAA likely wo n't give you any guarantees , its representative will be the one overreaching if he presses you to respond anyway . Politely decline if he does . I also had a look through the AOPA discussion forums ( members only , so no links ) and my summary of their comments would be : File a <URL> within the 10-day limit , whatever happened If you know what you did wrong and you know it was minor , then make the call If you do n't know what you did wrong then call but be prepared to end the conversation immediately if you have no good response or you realize it 's more serious than you thought If you know you caused a major safety issue ( actual or potential ) then do n't call and get a lawyer instead If you know the person you have to call - e.g. if it 's the tower controller at your home airport - then you should give more weight to calling In general , it 's better to call and have to cut off the conversation than not to call in the first place Whatever you say , keep it short and factual When you find out what you did wrong , get some ground and/or flight training from an instructor to address that specific issue and have him endorse it in your logbook ; this shows the FAA that you 've taken the issue seriously and you 've actively taken steps to make sure you wo n't do it again
<URL> says 38 knots for the 777 . <URL> says 25 knots for the 777 autoland system . <URL> says for the : 737-200 , crosswind limit is 31 knots ; for the 737-300 thru -500 , 35 knots ; for the 737-600 thru -900 , 36 knots ; and for the 737-600 thru -900 with winglets , 33 knots .
An airway ( Victor or otherwise ) is just a standard route for aircraft to fly on in the national airspace system - for all practical purposes they are literally highways in the sky ( with the lanes being stacked vertically rather than horizontally ) . This is part of the paradoxical logic of how ATC provides separation services for IFR aircraft : " You have to put them together to keep them apart . " -- In an environment with no radar , or in crowded airspace , having everyone following a standard routing ensures that you know what each plane is going to do . If you have 10 aircraft all flying along an airway and each separated by altitude or time you know they wo n't hit each other We define the attributes ( width , minimum altitude , etc. ) of a victor airway mainly for purposes of obstacle clearance : A VOR has a specific degree of precision in its measurement , and if we assume the maximum distance from the VOR ( the widest degree of arc ) and the maximum allowable " slop " in the VOR receiver/indicator in the aircraft that means an aircraft that thinks it 's " on the airway " will be somewhere within a given width around the defining radial : For Victor airways that width is 8 nautical miles - 4NM on either side of the centerline radial - or 4.5 degrees if the VORs are more than 102 nautical miles apart . Those numbers may sound like they 're arbitrary , but they are n't : If the VORs are exactly 102 nautical miles apart then the width of the airway at the 51 nautical mile midpoint between the two VORs is - you guessed it - 4 nautical miles . The further apart the VORs are the wider the center of the corridor becomes , accounting for the fact that a degree of arc gets wider as you get further from the VOR . Airways are an IFR construct so if we continue on the assumption that the plane is in the clouds and the pilot ca n't see anything then within the airway corridor the aircraft needs to be clear of any obstacles ( towers , trees , etc. ) , and of course it needs to be able to receive the VORs that define the airway . The combination of those factors and a few others will determine the minimum altitude at which a given airway can be used . Note that much like ground highways airways are not always the most direct or convenient way to fly from one location to another . In particular the Victor airways are defined by VOR radials ( or the intersections of such radials ) , but they 're not always a straight line between two VORs . As an example , take a look at <URL> : The airway I picked ( V451 ) will take me from Groton VOR ( GON ) to La Guardia VOR ( LGA ) , but it bends in three places on this route : CREAM , KEYED , and NESSI ( not labeled on the sectional , but its the bend southeast of Bridgeport ) . A straight line between the two VORs would be the 265 radial from Groton direct to La Guardia : A much shorter distance , but not a " standard " airway routing .
Normal autopilots do n't . They expect all systems to work correctly , and in case of failure of a single control surface they will stubbornly command actions which are no longer possible . For them , thrust is only for controlling the vertical speed , and the application of asymmetric thrust for yaw control is not possible . There are experimental autopilots which compare the result of their actions with a number of pre-programmed scenarios and select for their next commands the scenario which agrees best with reality . These really do what you assumed , but the specific scenario must have been considered before so the specific control laws are part of the code . Computers small enough to be carried on airplanes became powerful enough to do this in real time maybe 20 to 25 years ago , but I am not aware that regular autopilots of airliners have this capability even today . It is , however , used for unmanned vehicles .
Normally , an airfoil is optimized for best lift/drag ( L/D ) efficiency for a certain flight profile ( usually a compromise ) . Since most of the time for most aircraft inverted flight is not an issue , you get an airfoil that is optimized for upright flight , and this is best achieved with asymmetric geometries . However , depending on the <URL> any airfoil can ( and will ) generate " negative " lift , only much less efficiently so , than for the optimized regime , resulting in increased drag . The desired angle of attack for conventional aerodynamically controlled aircraft is maintained by the elevator . For symmetric airfoils commonly used for aerobatic planes , the performance for upright and inverted flight is quite similar . For 99 % of all other airfoils inverted flight will work up to a certain point , depending on the available power , CG , the maximum lift and rudder forces availabe before stall . As a result , for some aircraft , a stable inverted flight can not be maintained , while for others it could be ( but with varying penalty to performance , stall speed etc ) . The aerodynamical possiblity of inverted flight is of course limited by structural and other considerations .
Most accidents are referred to by flight number It depends who it is that is referring to the accident , and on who they are addressing . News media and the general public Newpapers and other media use flight numbers because that is the number known to friends and relatives of the individuals concerned and because most members of the public who have flown as passengers are very familiar with the concept of flight numbers but not really familiar with aircraft registration numbers . Investigators Investigating authorities have their own numbering schemes for accidents they investigate . Aircraft registration numbers change when an aircraft is sold to a purchaser based in another country . The only number that stays with an aircraft for its entire life is the manufacturer 's serial number . All these numbers can appear in official accident investigations reports . The registration number is usually prominent . <URL> <URL> <URL>
You should look in the POH for your specific aircraft ( because it may have had modifications to it which would make it different from a " standard " aircraft ) and see what it says . The <URL> contains no maximum airport elevation for takeoff , and the <URL> does n't either . Therefore , you can only go by the performance charts in the POH . According to the POH that I found above , assuming that you have enough runway available and can out climb any obstacles ( big assumption , you need to make sure of this ) , you can takeoff at a pressure altitude of up to 8,000 ft. other than in cases where the airplane is very heavy and it is hot , in which case it will be restricted further . This does n't mean that the aircraft is not capable of taking off at a higher pressure/density altitude however , and if you have the need to do so then I would recommend contacting the manufacturer directly to see if they have any engineering data available for your situation ( often they do but do n't publish it ; there may or may not be a fee ) .
Fear of number 13 is known as <URL> . I randomly entered some flight numbers on <URL> and found that <URL> one has row 13 ( aircraft is B737 ) : In <URL> case , there is no 13th row : However , in <URL> case , several row numbers ( 12 , 13 , 14 ) are skipped to adjust galleys and lavatories . This could be that they were added later or can be removed in future to add more rows . The bottom line is that regardless of what you name it , there remains a 13th row . If a plane is about to crash ( God forbid ) I would be worried about being on the plane , rather than just the seat number . There are several studies that safest seats are in the back . So , rows 1-12 may not be as unlucky as row 13 . If you have 12 million dollars and I can give you one million more1 , would you not take it ? In several parts of the world <URL> . 1Trust me , I will not do it , even if I have that much money .
My answer may not directly answer your question but from <URL> , I extract data for year 2014 and put in table as follow : note that total number of crew does not add up with each type of crew in the table Hope it gives you some idea about the ratio of pilot and flight attendant
Here is Boeing 's Examples Block numbers ZA001 Onwards - B787-8 ZB001 Onwards - B787-9 ZC001 Onwards - B787-10 ZD001 Onwards - rebuild of prototypes Line numbers are the serial number of the aircraft of that aircraft type Serial Number is the manufacturers serial ( basically the number of aircraft they have built up to that aircraft ) Airbus does n't use the Boeing Line/Serial numbers , they use a different system where the aircraft serial number is in fact the aircraft line number and the total # of the aircraft being built .
The automatic hookup uses a catchment area to mechanically force the pushrod into a receptacle to ensure a proper mechanical connection when the parts of the plane are connected . As an example , I have sketched below how the ailerons would be connected . The blue structure is the fuselage-side part , and the green structure is the wing-side part of the control linkage . The pushrod coming from the stick is connected to a trapezoidal cone which is hinged at the same point as the wing-mounted pivot lever which is moving the pushrod connected to the aileron . <URL> The opening of the trapezoidal cone is sized such that the end of the pivot lever will always be caught by it , regardless of the stick position and the aileron deflection . At the base where the end of the pivot lever rests when both parts are connected , the exact position and play between both can be adjusted , so the automatic connection will not have an adverse effect on handling . I once witnessed an aborted winch launch of the <URL> in which the linkages to the ailerons were interchanged . The pilot noticed the wrong operation of his ailerons before becoming airborne and released the rope quickly , but could not avoid a ground-loop , because he had pushed the low wing into the ground when trying to correct the plane 's attitude . I was glad not to have been in his position , because I am not sure I had reacted as quickly . Automatic connections would have made this mishap impossible .
I have n't seen the Breaking Bad episode , but in my experience any aviation related scenes in films and series are usually stretching reality beyond the breaking point . But it is possible that a single mistake can cause an accident . The probability of that happening is extremely remote , though . Typically there are a number of safety barriers ( also called defensive layers ) in the system ( 1 ) that prevent any single mistake from developing into a collision . However , every barrier has a small probability of not catching the problem ( e.g. due to it not being perfect or being in state of maintenance / failure ) so eventually a crash could result from a single mistake . This is often called the Swiss Cheese Model ( originally from Reason , J. ( 1990 ) Human Error . Cambridge : University Press , Cambridge . ) <URL> When an accident happens , sometimes the phrase " all the holes in the Swiss cheese lined up " is heard , and you now know why . While the first hole might be the mistake of a controller , the other holes may not be mistakes but are certainly rare circumstances and flaws in the system . Accident investigation focuses on identifying these contributing factors . In the <URL> mentioned by Portree Kid , two immediate causes have been identified ( 2 ) : The imminent separation infringement was not noticed by ATC in time . The instruction for the TU154M to descend was given at a time when the prescribed separation to the B757-200 could not be ensured any more . The TU154M crew followed the ATC instruction to descend and continued to do so even after TCAS advised them to climb . This manoeuvre was performed contrary to the generated TCAS RA . The first cause can be seen as a mistake by the controller , however that mistake could only happen because of a number of contributing factors ( systemic causes ) : Management and quality assurance of the air navigation service company did not ensure that during the night all open workstations were continuously staffed by controllers . Management and quality assurance of the air navigation service company tolerated for years that during times of low traffic flow at night only one controller worked and the other one retired to rest . In addition to the above , the Short Term Conflict Alerting ( STCA ) system did not display conflicts to the air traffic controller because of maintenance ( not listed as a cause in the report , but discussed in the text ) . The second cause is not a mistake by the crew of the TU154M , but a latent failure in the way ACAS/TCAS II was introduced . Never did anyone give guidance on what to do if the controller and the TCAS gave conflicting instructions . In the report this is identified as a systemic cause : The integration of ACAS/TCAS II into the system aviation was insufficient and did not correspond in all points with the system philosophy . The regulations concerning ACAS/TCAS published by ICAO and as a result the regulations of national aviation authorities , operational and procedural instructions of the TCAS manufacturer and the operators were not standardised , incomplete and partially contradictory . So while the accident was caused by a single mistake from the controller , there were also many flaws in the system , which all together allowed the mistake to develop into an accident . ( 1 ) By system I mean the aviation system as a whole , not only the air traffic control ( computer ) systems . ( 2 ) <URL>
Short answer : Yes . But only for a moment . As you suggest , let 's focus on the 90 ° case , because many things will become simpler . Intermediate climb angles can be covered by a linear superposition of horizontal and vertical flight . Now we shoot up at 90 ° flight path angle ( engine thrust permitting ) and leave some angle of attack for the wing to create lift . Lift acts orthogonally to the local flow direction , so the lift will pull the aircraft sideways ( up in the aircraft 's frame of reference ) . Since there is no other force which will oppose this lift ( drag , weight and thrust all act at 90 ° to the lift , parallel to the flight path ) , the aircraft will accelerate sideways ( again , up in the aircraft 's frame of reference ) . The angle of attack will immediately decrease and lift creation will stop -- or the pilot forces the angle of attack to stay constant by pulling the elevator , and now the aircraft will further increase its flight path angle . That is a complicated way of saying that the pilot forces the airplane into a loop . If he wants to maintain this 90 ° flight path angle , he better avoid creating any lift .
A " Safety Alert for Operators " ( SAFO 09004 ) from 2/11/09 says " Slow the aircraft to a fast walking speed on the centerline of the landing runway prior to attempting to exit the runway . Taxi at a fast walking speed until parked at the ramp or until aligned with the centerline of the runway for takeoff . " Which , of course , is n't a regulation , in this example is specifically talking about winter conditions . Source : <URL> Riverside County in Southern California has an ordinance ( regulation ) that states : Section 12.08.100 Taxi speed . No person shall taxi any aircraft on the airport unless there will be no danger of collision with any person or object . All aircraft shall be taxied at a safe and reasonable speed commensurate with safe operation in relation to existing conditions and with due regard for other aircraft , persons and property . ( Ord . 5661 § 1 , 1988 ; prior code § 5.11 ( part ) ) Source : <URL> So whatever a " safe and reasonable speed " is . I 've heard it called a " brisk walking pace . " I had an airline pilot as a ground school instructor once , and she said that ground control was giving them a hassle one day , so everyone decided to taxi at a " brisk walking pace " around LAX . Got ground whipped into shape real quick ! The FAA 's website , under " Best Practices " says to " Maintain an appropriate taxi speed . " <URL> Since it 's not clearly defined by the FAA , I assume that most airlines limit taxi speeds via their SOPs , also due to the variety of equipment , it might be unfeasible for the FAA to mandate a specific speed . Roughly : Max 30 kts : straight line with no close obstacles ( for example : back-tracking on the runway ) Max 20 kts : straight line with obstacles ( for example : on the taxiway , or close to other aircraft/stands/ground vehicles ) Max 10 kts : turns and entry onto ramp area
For statically stable aircraft , the canard is a spoiler in disguise . It will create a strong downwash right behind itself , coupled with an upwash outward of $ \ pi $ / 4 of its semispan . With changing angle of attack and lift coefficient , the vertical position and the strength of both up - and downwash will change , so the wing incidence variation over wingspan can be made right for just one angle of attack . Pros The force to effect flight path changes works the right way , so pitch response times of canards are slightly better than those of a conventional configuration . The wing can be further aft , so in short business jets the cabin might not interfere with the wing spar . Cons The induced drag at off-design points is higher than that of a comparable conventional configuration . The bigger lifting surface must keep some stall margin , so the total lift coefficient will be smaller than that of a comparable conventional configuration . In the end , a canard will need more wing area . Control surface deflections will add to the already high lift coefficient of the canard plane , increasing lift demands on the surface with the smallest margins . The highest lift coefficient is needed at the surface with the smaller <URL> . Normally , the reverse would be better . If the engines are mounted below and ahead of the wing , they will be hit by the wake of the canard , reducing intake efficiency and <URL> margins . To make sure that the control surface will be the last thing on the plane to run into compressibility problems , it should have less lift coefficient and more sweep than the wing . In the end , a statically stable canard will have a lower cruise Mach number than a comparable conventional configuration . The landing gear must be made to retract into the fuselage , because the wing is too far behind the center of gravity to allow the gear to retract into the wing . I could go on , but I guess you see by now where this is heading ...
Everyone collectively went " Oh god , not this one " because this same question has sparked some intense debates in the past . Aircraft rely on airflow over the airfoil ( wings/tail etc ) to produce lift - which is independent of the movement of the tires . This means that with enough air going over the wing , the aircraft will fly even if it is n't moving forward at all relative to the ground . This is why aircraft on ramps at airports need to be tethered to the ground . This is n't only to prevent them from rolling around , but from taking off should the air flow get fast enough over the wing . If you are interested in an entertaining segment , the MythBusters did a fairly scientific experiment of this . Although it is n't perfect , I think it does a good job of explaining the concepts .
Takeoff power is almost never maximum engine power . Maximum power affects engine life as it brings significant wear to the engine . IIRC , if max power is used on takeoff , the crew must log an entry in the logbook to notify maintenance . Turbo-fans produce a lot of power . If you require max power to takeoff , you better double-check your numbers , or you 're operating with a pretty narrow margin . The reality is the reverse : airlines love to do low power takeoffs , and they avoid a high power takeoff as much as practical . Occasionally , a condition such as high ambient temperature ( resulting in high pressure altitude ) , heavy load , obstacle on departure path may demand a max power takeoff . Possible wind shear may also prompt the crew to select a higher takeoff power .
end question
start question
What would be the best alternative during a dead-stick approach ?
Attempting a tight turn , while low and slow , is an almost certain recipe for disaster . Your first option of landing with a tailwind is possibly preferable - there is no inherent danger landing with a tailwind - it 'll extend your landing , and is not ideal . However , it is much safer than trying to maneuver into a position with a headwind with only part of the runway remaining . And with a short runway to start with ( if that was the case ) you might not have enough distance to land safely anyway . There is a third option , with the setup you describe , which is to completly disregard the ( seemingly ) obvious runway close by and look for a suitable area to land in front - a field , a highway , a beach - any of the usualy places you might make an emergency landing in the case of an engine failure . ( Disclaimer : My experience is with single engine propeller aircraft , but I am fairly sure the mantra of Aviate , Navigate , Communicate applies to all aircraft types . Really , in this situation its only the aviate that is relevant )
First allow me to give a quick introduction to RNAV and RNP before geting to SAAAR / RNP AR . Area Navigation ( RNAV ) is a method of instrument flight rules ( IFR ) navigation that allows an aircraft to fly on any desired path within the coverage of referenced navigation beacons , rather than navigating directly to and from the beacons . In other words , waypoints can be defined at arbitrary locations and paths betweens those points ( and traditional navigation beacons as well ) can be defined . RNAV routes are coded into the navigation database by ARINC 424 path-terminators . Whilst RNAV routes can be designed in such a way that the lateral path is strictly described , in general the lateral path has a quite some freedom due to floating leg types ( e.g. turn at altitude , fly heading etc ) and wiggle room for the aircraft to negotiate the turns . When the route is described only by TF ( track to fix ) and RF ( radius to fix ) path terminators , the lateral path is fully fixed . These fixed lateral paths allow procedure designers , for example , to design approaches through mountain valleys down to the runway . RNAV defines a 95 % accuracy bounds . For example , RNAV 1 requires the aircraft to be within 1 NM from the path centreline 95 % of the time . The route designer will ensure a 2 NM obstacle free zone around the path in such a case . Note that RNAV provides no assurance against exceeding the 2 NM zone . There is no automated system monitoring required . Potentially causes of deviations between the path intended by the procedure designer and the actual flown path can be grouped into three categories : First , there is the Path Definition Error . This is caused by database coding mismatch with the original path design . Second , there is the Path Steering Error , caused by the combination of display inaccuracies on the Navigation Display and the inability of the pilot or the autoflight system to stay exactly on path ( Flight Technical Error ) . Third , there is Position Estimation Error , which is the difference between the position of the aircraft estimated by the navigation system and the true position . It is not unthinkable that while normally ( 95 % of the time ) the aircraft will fly within e.g. 1 NM of the intended centre line , there are cases that the aircraft will exceed the 1NM by far , possibly even busting the 2 NM obstacle free zone . That could potentially ruin your day if it happens in a mountain valley . This is where RNP comes in . RNP ( Required Navigation Performance ) is basically RNAV with added protection . For example , RNP 1 again defines a 1NM accuracy for 95 % of the time , but it also offers 99.999 % assurance that it will not exceed the 2NM . It will raise an alert if the 2 NM value will potentially be exceeded . So in addition to what RNAV offers , it includes a system monitoring function that will detect navigation errors and alerts for them . The RNP value alway gives the 95 % accuracy , the 99.999 % assurance ( integrity ) limit is always at twice that value . So RNP 0.3 means that the aircraft has to stay within 0.3 NM of the designed path centreline 95 % of the time . And if it exceeds the 0.6 NM threshold , an alert will be raised with 99.999 % certainty . RNP systems therefore require a system monitoring function . To ensure that the RNP values are met , each of the three error sources mentioned earlier must be under control . For RNP values down to 1 NM that is not much of a challenge . Standard procedures and equipment are deemed to be sufficient here . ( of course the required RNP values must be met by the Actual Navigation Performance ) If an approach requires tighter limits , such as RNP 0.3 or 0.15 , then special authorization is required . This is where SAAAR comes in ( Special Aircraft and Aircrew Authorization Required ) , now renamed to RNP AR ( RNP Authorization Required ) . RNP AR routes only make use of TF and RF leg types to fully fix the lateral path . RF legs are not supported by all navigation systems by default . To get authorization for RNP AR , the aircraft needs to comply with the applicable functional and performance requirements , the crew needs to be trained and lot 's of documentation must be maintained . Basically proof must be provided that all of the three error terms are under strict control . In a sense it is somewhat similar to ILS CAT III approval . References : <URL> describes a means of compliance for RNP AR <URL> gives a good explanation of RNAV and RNP
I happen to have personal knowledge of this particular case . I was in that airplane , too , seated two rows away from him . I 'm also a former pilot and was naturally very interested in what happened , so I asked him some questions during the flight back . He had worked as service mechanic for this company before , servicing their planes in Iceland . Their technical staff and the pilot of this plane already knew him , which made things easier . Tools and parts were available at the airport in Alicante , but no qualified technician certified for this type of aircraft . The technical staff of the airline contacted his boss in Iceland by phone , who agreed to sub-contract him to the airline for the duration of the repair and pay him overtime for the work . They faxed a copy of his certification documents to Stockholm to cover the EASA regulations that require a certified professional doing the repair .
It 's not easy to find research on small ducted fans . I did come across <URL> from 2009 , which does show some relevant results - at low propeller speeds . Duct design The document describes three duct designs , one with a variable bypass inlet and two simpler ones . The simplest one is made from PVC tuning and a foam inlet lip : <URL> <URL> Geometric information is given as : Inner diameter = 14.5 " Duct Chord = 4 " Duct Length ( C/D ) = 0.28 Maximum Thrust One of the results of the project is that a ducted propeller delivers more thrust than an un-ducted one . Here is one of the results , listing $ C_T $ as a function of tip Mach numbers - which are really low and therefore hard to generalise into practical rotor and fan configurations . <URL> Tip Clearance Best results were obtained with a propeller with square tips with the smallest gap between propeller and duct that could be achieved . This was a 3-blade propeller , but the research project was severely limited by the small motor used , and therefore low maximum torque that could be exerted on the propellers .
I 'll give the answer from an ATC perspective . A visual approach is the most preferred approach , since we can get aircraft to follow each other , and do n't have to worry as greatly about aircraft getting too close . The rules say we can compress under certain conditions to 2.5 miles on ILS or radar separation approaches , but timing wise , for the runway to be clear , you can often need less separation between aircraft to maximize its usage . With the visual approach , you 're vectoring to keep aircraft closer so they can see each other and follow in closely to each other to the runway . In most ATC facilities , the Tower decides what runway to use , and the approach control calls the type of approach generally on offer ( this can vary depending on facilities and how they agree to run things ) . A pilot can always request a different approach ... they might be delayed , sometimes significantly if they insist on something way out of the loop .
The Boeing chart you reference appears to use for the approach speed column the Vref speed of the aircraft at its max landing weight in the landing configuration . This is the speed you want to be at or close to when you start the landing flare ( the two 747 carriers I flew for used Vref +5 ) . Absent charted speed limits , controller instructions , or company policy , there is no specific distance threshold along the approach path that you can not cross above that speed . The requirement is to be at the proper speed when you enter the landing flare . However , if you were , say , flying the classic stabilized approach , you would be in the landing configuration at this speed from the FAF ( final approach fix ) to the landing flare . The FAF is typically around 5 miles from the runway . Now , insofar as speed stages , the requirement is not one of specific distance points along your approach path ( again absent charted limits , etc. ) , but rather what you have to do speed wise while changing from a clean configuration to the landing configuration . You 're approaching the airport with the gear and flaps up . The critical element speed wise on the approach is the wing configuration . Given the 747-200 speed of 150 kts in that chart , if you slow to that speed with the flaps up , you will stall . The minimum safe speed would be around 80 kts greater than that . Go to flaps 1 ( which really does n't put the trailing edge flaps at 1 degree but rather puts out the leading edge flaps or slats as some call them ) . Once they 're out you can safely slow to Vref +60 . At flaps 5 you can slow to Vref +40 . At flaps 25 you 'll be able to safely slow to the Vref speed in normal operating conditions . Other aircraft have different flap settings and different speeds . The important thing to remember is that you 're changing the shape of the wing to be able to fly more slowly . Where you will be along your approach path when you do this is typically not determined by distance per se , but by time . Do it too soon and you burn more fuel . Do it too late , and the problem becomes one of not being at Vref when you need to be .
As long as the vertical tail surface sits above the centerline ( more precisely the longitudinal axis of inertia - for now we can assume both fall together ) , any side force will also create a rolling moment . This is undesirable because now a yaw command will not only create the intended yawing moment , but also a rolling moment . If you want to yaw in order to turn , the vertical tail above the centerline will even roll the aircraft in the wrong direction , so you need more coordinated aileron command than with a symmetrical vertical tail . So the short answer to your question is : Terry is right : Extending the vertical tail below is clearly a benefit . This can be seen by the widespread use of ventral fins in combat aircraft . Adding area below the centerline helps to reduce the roll contribution of the vertical tail in a sideslip , which improves handling characteristics ( more directional stability AND lower yaw-induced roll ) . See the picture below for an example where the effects of additional vertical tail area are compared to the effects of a ventral fin of the same area . At supersonic speeds , the low aspect ratio ventral fin has a nearly constant contribution to directional stability , whereas the wing-like vertical tail loses effectivity in proportion to the Prandtl-Glauert factor $ \ frac { 1 } { \ sqrt { Ma ^ 2-1 } } $ . The small ventral fin of the F-104 raised directional stability by 30 % at Mach 2 . At high angles of attack , the vertical tail is in the wake of the fuselage which reduces local dynamic pressure and , consequently , effectivity . The ventral fin then is in ideal flow conditions , so it can help to stabilize the aircraft at high angle of attack , just when the fuselage contribution to instability is largest .
While I do not have a specific source to cite , which is always important to reference in regard to any aircraft work , I 'm basing this answer on my training as an FAA certified aircraft mechanic . ( There are many more experienced mechanics than myself out there , but alas , none who have done this particular process have arrived yet . ) In general , if you have to work on something that does not already have specified methods from the aircraft manufacturer , the go-to reference is : AC43 .13 1b/2b - Acceptable Methods , Techniques , &amp; Practices of Aircraft Inspection and Repair But I do n't know if that volume covers this mishap . I can tell you with some certainty that several inspections will be called for on that aircraft . The skin and structure of the empennage , of course , but also the main gear will almost certainly require a " hard landing check " , since the airframe was adversely loaded so much that the nose lifted . There 's every chance that the event will call for a " tail strike " check , which can be extensive . If the aircraft were tipped forward in an uncontrolled fashion , the nose gear may come down quite hard , but the fact that the forces involved would be unknown ( compared , say , to a landing touchdown at a known sink rate and aircraft weight , ) would also necessitate a hard-landing inspection of the nose gear . In a hard-landing event , the fuselage structure may also be compromised , and relevant areas are also checked , as prescribed by the aircraft 's particular inspection and maintenance documents . When an airframe ever does something in an uncontrolled fashion , many inspections will be needed to conservatively account for every possible imagined consequence , and that can cost a great deal of time and money . All this is preamble to the kind of approach a good mechanic will take to a problem that offers little previous experience . Every A&amp;P can change a tire , balance a control surface , and check for corrosion , but getting an aircraft back on all wheels safely is not often addressed . We know a few things : • The nose gear can support the unloaded nose of the plane ( and we know from records what weight range that is ) . • Dramatic movements are frowned upon . • The aircraft was fine before that last load was introduced . • Personnel safety is a primary concern . ( No dangerous heroics ! ) Things we do n't know : • How hard you can pull down on the nose gear before damaging something ( they were not meant for such loads ! ) • Whether the main gear are at or over their load limit already . ( If people were watching the aircraft 's weight and balance figures , we would n't be in this mess . ) • Whether the fuselage/empennage has been structurally compromised . • How fast/hard the nose might come down with the weight distribution corrected - too fast ? From these things , we can determine what NOT to do : • Pile a bunch of baggage handlers in the nose until it tips back down . Yay , concussions ! • Adding weight ( ballast ) in general . ( Will the airframe be damaged further ? ) • Haul downward on the nose with a winch . ( Do n't tear the nose gear off ! ) • Jack up the tail from the rear . ( We do n't know if it will hold . Probably , but we do n't take chances . ) Variables that could be leveraged : • Can the cargo be winched back towards the front without endangering anyone ? • Does this model ( " type " ) have fore and aft fuel tanks in the main fuselage , and if so , can fuel be moved between them ( or pumped out ) for weight shift , in safety ? We 're left with two primary goals : • Decrease the weight moment behind the mains in a controlled fashion , hopefully without adding any weight to the airframe . • Do not let the nose fall uncontrolled . My approach would resemble the following , depending on equipment available ( or that could be found in the local region ) : Provide safe support under the nose of the aircraft that can support the normal full weight of the nose of the aircraft . We want to ensure the nose can not come down without our say-so . A sling is ideal , and the airframe manufacturer will have specifications on how to lift and support the airframe . In a comment , @TomMcW provided a nice linked visual in this YouTube video : As seen in the video , the best option would be an overhead crane , with a sling approved for lifting that airframe wrapped under the forward fuselage . Here 's a more extreme example of using a sling to lift an aircraft : <URL> Once the aircraft is in a stable support with minimized risk of unexpected movement , the next phase is to UNweight the rear , in the safest way we can . That might be to pump out fuel from an aft tank , or winch a cargo container slowly forward , or ( the least favorite ) manually unload items , using as few personnel as possible . As weight is removed from the rear , the airframe will weigh down the sling . You can lower the sling in a slow and controlled way , with the main gear " chocked " . Once the nose is down , sorting out the rest of the car
The FAA requirements are for the information to be logged , without specifying the details of how it is logged . It 's OK to use electronic log books , and multiple log books . Scanned images are as good as photocopies . Just print them if you ever need them on paper . Some items are required to be signed , so scanned signatures and endorsements may be necessary in an electronic logbook . The older the information , the less its importance . Log books are normally examined to see if what you 're doing is legal , checking ratings , currency , training and reviews , etc. . If you are flying without required night or IFR currency , for example , it is conceivable that they 'd want to check previous flights to see how often that has happened in the past . An insurance company might want to make sure you 've got the hours you claim , but the FAA 's interest is to see if you are legal .
Much longer take-off distance and less endurance , but higher speed at all altitudes with jets . The performance advantage of jets widened with increasing altitude and resulted in a higher service ceiling . Both the <URL> and the <URL> would fly at least 100 km/h faster than any propeller airplane , and the Ar-234 could fly reconnaissance missions over France and England in complete impunity . A Me-262 test variant ( 262 V9 ) with a low-profile canopy reached 600 MPH in level flight . This gave jets the possibility to break off combat at will . They could only be engaged with success when they were flying for a landing with empty tanks or by chance , when the jet pilot was unaware of his opponent . Since the Me-262 was designed to intercept bomber formations , it was not suited for dogfights . The <URL> , on the other hand , was evaluated in 1943 against a FW-190 and would easily outturn the propeller aircraft , so this was not an engine-related characteristic .
A <URL> is that a stick pusher is a : ... device that pushes forward on the elevator control system whenever the aircraft 's angle of attack reaches the pre-determined value , and then ceases to push when the angle of attack falls sufficiently . A <URL> is : A stick pusher system incorporates both a passive monitoring component and an active intervention component that consists of an hydraulic or electro-mechanical pusher mechanism . The monitoring component constantly evaluates critical flight parameters such as airspeed , load factor and flap setting against the aircraft angle of attack . If the angle of attack reaches a predetermined value , the intervention component of the system is activated and pushes forward on the elevator control system until the angle of attack is reduced to an acceptable value . The system operates autonomously and without any required action by the pilots . FAA has an <URL> for stick pusher training . For Embraer 145 , <URL> shows a demo of stick shaker , stick pusher and the warning systems .
Airports can have a left , center and right runways . Memphis ( KMEM ) is a good example . Airports with four or more parallel runways are left and right with the numbers off by one . Los Angeles ( KLAX ) and Chicago ( KORD ) are good examples of such an arrangement .
I think the answer depends on what the birds are doing , but all options are basically " at the pilot 's risk " - the tower is just advising you there are some birds hanging around the airport , but nobody can say how they 're going to react to you trying to land there too . If the flock is airborne and flying across the final ( completely neglecting to coordinate their movements with tower , as birds are wont to do ) you can request an extended downwind until they 've moved on . This has happened to me twice , and in my experience birds tend to be far less interested in airports than pilots . They 're usually gone in a minute or two . If they 're sitting on the runway somewhere you can try a low pass over the field to scare them off , but my preference would be to ask the tower/unicom operator if they can chase them away for me with a ground vehicle ( so I 'm not near the flock in case they decide to disperse " upward " instead of " outward " ) . If they 're just pecking around in the grass near the approach end of the runway looking for lunch <URL> &amp; <URL> have the right idea with a go-around or low approach/overflight to scare them off . ( This is part of why a low pass over an unattended uncontrolled field is often advisable -- you 'll hopefully scare off any critters on the runway that you would n't want there when you actually land . ) If they 're " airport birds " you might want to just land . Some of the airports by me have resident flocks of birds that I 'm convinced just sit there and rate people 's landings - I swear I saw the same birds every day shooting touch-and-gos . These are the kind of birds that are n't going to scatter when you do a low pass unless you hit them with your landing gear , so just be aware of where they are ( in case they lose their minds and try to commit suicide by propeller ) but they probably wo n't bother you . I do n't think I 'd ask for a downwind landing because of birds ( unless we 're talking geese or hawks or something ) , but if it 's a calm-wind day , the pattern is empty , and you 're more comfortable with that idea go ahead and ask . The worst the tower can do is say " unable " .
I would n't worry to much about the mass of the engine . That 's actually not the biggest problem . Instead , I 'd be scared far more by the angular momentum . That turbine has a large moment of inertia and also a higher angular velocity.To flip it , you have to reverse the angular velocity . It 's essentially flipping a gyroscope , but this is a gyroscope weighing several tons .
There are actually quite a few reasons to fly an instrument approach , especially one with vertical guidance ( like an ILS ) , even if the weather does n't require it : It serves as a backup to the visual approach . There are various visual illusions that can cause a pilot to fly an approach too high or too low and monitoring the vertical guidance can help to mitigate those . It helps to ensure that you land on the correct runway , and even at the correct airport . ( Unlike <URL> . ) ATC uses it when pilots do not have the airport or runway in sight . This happens quite frequently at large airports where they have to line many aircraft up on final . The last guy is a long distance from the airport so may not be able to see it but can fly the approach . It can be useful if it is hazy or the sun is making it hard for the pilots to find the airport . Some parallel runways are approved for simultaneous approaches ( as is the case at Narita for runways 34L &amp; 34R ) so ATC will clear two airplanes for the respective ILS 's . This keeps them tracking the centerline of the approach instead of maneuvering visually where they might drift over into the way of the other airplane . Flying the approach on the autopilot leaves more time for the pilot to focus on other things and possibly catch something that might have been missed while hand flying a visual approach . Sometimes instrument approaches are used for noise abatement reasons . If I had to guess about the particular approach that you mention , I would say that it is probably company SOP ( Standard Operating Procedures ) to fly the ILS whenever possible for the safety benefits , and that Narita allows simultaneous parallel landings to the two runways so ATC would require it as well .
A windmill is a turbine , so it 's better to build an optimized turbine . I 've studied your idea and this draft design has come out : <URL> The apparatus has these innovating characteristics : Configurable for 2 , 3 and 4 engine aircraft Can be positioned exactly for optimal efficiency Adjustable up or sideways for local constraints Bird/snake anti-roasting protection ( removable ) Simple and robust 50 or 60 Hz AC selection by adjusting engine thrust Optional gas water extractor For increased operation time , the apparatus can move with the airplane until a certain speed ( configurable ) is achieved ( cable not included ) .
Yes it would be possible to build a fighter plane from wood , not one that can fly at Mach 3 however . There are some olden days examples of fighter planes using wood construction , here is another one from 1938 : the Fokker G. 1 . with a wooden wing . These planes do n't look like F16s , but were subject to fully aerobatic g-forces . <URL> <URL> provides an overview of knowledge of aeronautical wood construction . Wood is a light construction material , and one of the largest aircraft ever built , the Spruce Goose , was made entirely of wood . Wood also has asymmetrical strength properties : it is much stronger in line with the grain than perpendicular to it , one of the main advantages cited for composites . We could follow the same construction method as for composites : shave off thin layers of wood and embed them in resin , line up the majority of the grain in the direction of greatest stress , and use some alternate grain directions like in plywood to create sufficient strength and stiffness in all directions . If we consider the properties of aeroplane construction materials : Strength . Wood has a specific strength that is slightly lower than that of aluminium : spruce has a compression strength of 27.5 N/mm $ ^ 2 $ = 27.5 MPa , and a density of 418 kg/m $ ^ 3 $ . Compare this with untempered 7075 aluminium alloy : a tensile strength of 280 MPa and a density of 2,810 kg/m $ ^ 3 $ . Aircraft aluminium alloy is 10.2 times as strong and 6.7 times as heavy as spruce , so its specific strength is 10.2 / 6.7 = 1.52 that of spruce . But half of the wing is compression loaded , and a thicker skin made of a lighter material buckles less easily . So for wings with a high aspect ratio , part of aluminium 's weight advantage is traded in : compressed skin is dimensioned on skin thickness , not on yield strength . Heat resistance/flammability Aircraft aluminium alloys yield strength reduces as a function of temperature , as indicated in the graph below ( <URL> ) . The red line is for 2024 aluminium : at 250 ° C , the tensile strength ( = compression strength ) is halved . <URL> Compare this with the compression strength of spruce : halved at around 150 ° C ( Source : fig 5-14 of <URL> ) . There are two graph regions for different moisture contents , and that brings us to the main disadvantage of wood : the variability of a natural material , next under point 3 . <URL> But of course the main point of attention would be using a jet engine in a wooden frame . Even the G. 1 had an aluminium front engine construction . Consistency and weather resistance From <URL> ... the principal factors tending to restrict the use of wood are a not unlimited supply of the most desirable species ; a hygroscopicity that results in shrinking and swelling and changes in strength ; and a wide difference in properties with different directions of the grain . These disadvantages can be partially undone by using plywood , however this has an additional weight penalty . Wood has not been used for several decades for constructing airliners or fighters , and for a good reason . Fokker successfully built wooden monoplane aircraft in the 1920/1930s , until a high visibility <URL> brought this construction method under scrutiny . Not long after , the <URL> and the <URL> pioneered aluminium smooth skin aeroplane construction , and the industry has never looked back . So yes , a fighter can be built out of wood and would be strong enough . However it would be heavier , prone to weather influences , and cause of major headaches for integrating a jet engine into its flammable construction . It can not fly at Mach 3 : the SR-71 needed to be built out of titanium , not aluminium , due to the heat resistance required . Spruce would not stand a chance and go up in flames . There are no good reasons to not build a fighter jet from metal or nowadays composits .
The obvious answer you mentioned should be reiterated : Avoid thunderstorms whenever possible ! Just because there are " best penetrating altitudes " does n't change the fact that thunderstorms are extremely hazardous to aircraft and should be avoided in the first place . With that said , the FAA 's <URL> mentions that , if unable to avoid penetrating a thunderstorm : To avoid the most critical icing , establish a penetration altitude below the freezing level or above the level of -15 ºC . This is to help minimize rapid accumulation of clear ice : Supercooled water freezes on impact with an aircraft . Clear icing can occur at any altitude above the freezing level but at high levels , icing from smaller droplets may be rime or mixed rime and clear . The abundance of large , supercooled water droplets makes clear icing very rapid between 0ºC and -15 ºC , and encounters can be frequent in a cluster of cells . Thunderstorm icing can be extremely hazardous . Another point to mention is that , regardless of there being a recommended " penetration altitude , " it is important to maintain a constant attitude , not altitude : It is almost impossible to hold a constant altitude in a thunderstorm , and maneuvering in an attempt to do so greatly increases stress on the aircraft . Stresses are least if the aircraft is held in a constant attitude . But again , emphasizing the dangers of thunderstorms , the circular states : Never regard any thunderstorm lightly , even when radar observers report the echoes are of light intensity . Avoiding thunderstorms is the best policy . and Weather recognizable as a thunderstorm should be considered hazardous , as penetration of any thunderstorm can lead to an aircraft accident and fatalities to those on board .
There are a couple of places in the regualtions that require FAA or NTSB notification of certain events : <URL> <URL> <URL> The closest thing to what you described would be the following in 121.703 ( a ) : ( 11 ) A fuel or fuel-dumping system that affects fuel flow or causes hazardous leakage during flight ; Note that it says during flight though , so this would n't apply and they would n't be required to report it .
The answer is in the question : lateral , fwd/aft is longitudinal . The cyclic stick directions are cyclic longitudinal and cyclic lateral : move the stick and the rotor tilts , producing direct translational movement . The helicopter fuselage follows the rotor angle and therefore pitches/rolls as well , but more as a ( desired ) side effect . Desired because they enable instant judgement on the amount of stick applied . In a fixed wing , stick fwd/sideways is pitch stick and roll stick , because stick inputs primarily affect the aircraft attitudes . Longitudinal and lateral are helicopter terms because stick inputs ( in a hover ) mainly affect translations . And yes on a 6-DoF simulator motion system they are called Surge and Sway .
end question
start question
Are runway safety areas for both emergency landings and aborted take-offs ?
Yes , the <URL> is to provide a buffer zone for aircraft that leave the runway for whatever reason , including rejecting a take-off late or by overshooting on landing . It 's not specifically for an " emergency landing " : sometimes the emergency might only arise during the course of the landing , for example tyres bursting or pilot error . If it were only for emergency landings , then parallel runways probably would n't need to all have a RSA , because the distress aircraft could be offered the one runway that has one . But in fact every runway needs an RSA , because any landing might suffer a runway excursion .
According to the <URL> , the main reason is search and rescue : b . It is strongly recommended that a flight plan ( for a VFR flight ) be filed with an FAA FSS . This will ensure that you receive VFR Search and Rescue Protection . So the question becomes , does search and rescue have value in populated areas ? I would say that - excluding large cities - populated areas are actually not very densely populated at all ( relatively speaking ) , and there is a very good chance that no one will see your aircraft come down or even react if they do . You might be flying at night , or no one may be looking in the right direction , or they may assume you 're landing at a private strip or doing cropdusting or whatever . And even when an aircraft is known to be down in a specific area , it 's often very hard to find it - especially if you land in trees - so anything you can do to narrow down the search area is important . An AOPA safety video ( I forget which one ) mentioned an incident where a helicopter went down less than a mile from a runway threshold at a class B airport and it still took 24 hours to locate it ( the details may be different , but you get the idea ) .
From the <URL> : CONTAMINATED RUNWAY − A runway is considered contaminated whenever standing water , ice , snow , slush , frost in any form , heavy rubber , or other substances are present . A runway is contaminated with respect to rubber deposits or other friction-degrading substances when the average friction value for any 500-foot segment of the runway within the ALD fails below the recommended minimum friction level and the average friction value in the adjacent 500-foot segments falls below the maintenance planning friction level . ( See also <URL> Thanks to <URL> . So this covers rubber and oil , but not debris . However , from searching the glossary there are no instances of the word " debris " in the document . Usually if debris or oil were noticed on a runway , ATC would close the runway ( issue a NOTAM ) and then use an alternate runway until the debris or oil were cleaned up . From a pilots perspective , if you notice debris on the runway just tell ATC ( provided you did n't hit it ) , and they will close the runway for a FOD ( foreign object debris ) check . My local airport does this usually twice a day or more , typically by running a car down the runway looking for debris .
What does your POH/AFM says ? Ignoring winds and other factors , it depends on effective runway length , not just runway length . If you have a runway long ( really long ) enough , you can takeoff/land in either direction . As mentioned <URL> : ... advantage or disadvantage of a sloped runway is that a 1 % runway gradient -- an increase or decrease in altitude of 10 ' for every 1000 ' of runway length -- is equivalent to a 10 % increase or decrease in effective runway length ... Example : Runway length is 1500 ' with 3 % up-slope gradient Landing uphill on it will give us an effective runway length of almost 2000 ' ( 1500 ' x 1.3 = 1950 ' ) . Landing downhill on it will give us an effective runway length of just over 1000 ' ( 1500 ' x 0.7 = 1050 ' ) . Just for reference , the runway ( 6 : uphill ; 24 : downhill ) at Lukla Airport has 12 % gradient and is 1500 ' long . Effective Runway Lengths ( using the formula above ) Hence , hypothetically speaking , if runway 24 is 48,400 ' long with no wind , A380 <URL> takeoff too .
Generally speaking you continue your climb after rotation although this will depend on the runway , runway conditions and airport procedures . <URL> : In some cases if you are leaving from a grass strip ( still technically a runway ) you will go for your soft field take off maneuver . In this case you will actually pop the plane off the ground into ground effect as soon as you can ( you will be flying at this point ) . Then build up speed in ground effect ( at a level attitude so you can see the runway fine ) then begin your climb out when you have sufficient speed at a climb attitude . <URL> : If the runway is short ( or there is an obstacle to clear ) you will execute your short field maneuvers . In this case you will take off with 1 notches of flaps . Gun the engine but hold the breaks and let the prop spin up . Then as soon as you hit rotation speed pull back to your best angle of climb . Then when you have cleared your obstacle you can level it out to a normal climb t ( best rate or what ever you planed for ) . In this case clearing the obstacle may be more important than strictly maintaining the runway heading ( depending on where the obstacle is ) . In this maneuver you will focus on your airspeed ( to keep from stalling ) as well as your attitude indicator and your heading indicator to keep as on course as possible . Air Port Procedures : Some airports have special procedures for departing because of obstacles , air spaces , noise abatements etc. . For example I fly out of DYL and they have a procedure on runway 23 that calls for a turn to 250 and climb out to 1200 ft before executing any other turns or maneuvers . Once I have cleared the trees I will usually begin my turn . Generally speaking you fly the runway heading after you have rotated and you do this using the heading indicator NOT the compass . Since you are in accelerated climbing flight your compass is inaccurate .
An assumed temperature takeoff ( also known as " flex " on Airbus/Fokker aircraft ) is where the engine thrust is reduced to match the performance on a higher-temperature day , up to either the maximum thrust reduction allowed or the maximum assumed temperature that meets takeoff distance requirements . Unlike a derate , assumed temperature takeoffs do not reduce the minimum control speed used for calculating takeoff speeds ( $ V _ { MCG } $ for $ V_1 $ , $ V _ { MCA } $ for $ V_2 $ ) . The minimum selectable temperature is the lowest temperature beyond the flat rating temperature range ( the range of temperatures where maximum thrust is achievable , limited by an engine control unit ) , and the highest temperature is the temperature at which the maximum thrust reduction allowed will be met . Except with specific certification and approval ( such as 40 % flex on the A340 ) , such a procedure must not reduce the thrust beyond 25 % of the nominal takeoff thrust ( either full rate or a takeoff derate ) . For example , the range of assumed temperatures permitted is 30-75 ° C ( flat rated to $ ISA +15 $ , thrust at 75 ° C is 75 % of normal rating ) . The main reason for performing an assumed temperature takeoff is to conserve engine life , therefore reducing maintenance costs . According to Boeing , engine wear exponentially increases with the takeoff thrust used -- with engines costing about 10 million USD each , this has the potential to save a lot of money for airlines . If you are taking off using assumed temperature , you may ( but are not required to ) add thrust to TOGA in the case of an emergency , however if you are using a takeoff derate , you must not increase the thrust beyond the derated N1 , as this could cause a loss of control ( higher thrust = higher actual $ V _ { MCG } $ ) . Not all aircraft allow assumed temperature in conjunction with derates . For example , you can only select a derate or a flex temperature on all Airbus aircraft ( if a derate option is offered ) . NOTE : do not attempt to " copy the jet jocks " in a piston aircraft and attempt a reduced throttle takeoff : only at takeoff throttle levels is extra fuel injected for cooling and reduction beyond this point could result in CHT levels rising to unacceptable levels , increasing the risk of engine damage .
FAA has letters of agreement with US DOD , which authorizes certain military aircraft to fly faster than 250 KIAS below 10,000 feet . A good example of this would be the <URL> , described in <URL> : 12-10-11 . AUTHORIZATIONS T-38 / T-1 airspeeds in excess of 250 KIAS below 10,000 feet MSL are authorized by competent military authority in accordance with FAA Order 7110.65 and the letter of authorization granted to DOD . The reason for this waiver is discussed in <URL> : THE T-38 'S SPD WAS ABOUT 330 KTS ; THE SPD LIMITATION OF 250 KTS HAD BEEN WAIVED FOR T-38 ACFT , DUE TO THE ACFT 'S LACK OF CONTROLLABILITY AT THE LOWER SPD . The relevant letter from <URL> : <URL> Also , from <URL> : 14 CFR Part 91.117 covers aircraft speed . Recognizing that some DoD aircraft performance requirements exceed 250 knots , the FAA issued an exemption to 14 CFR Part 91.117 . The exemption has been claimed for other aircraft too - like <URL> : ... climb-out occurs at 350 KCAS for an air-to-air configured jet and 330 KCAS on one with air-to-ground ordnance . ... this is significantly higher than the 14 CFR speed restriction of 250 knots below 10,000 feet . The F-15E , like most fighter aircraft , falls under the Letter of Agreement between the DoD and FAA allowing some military aircraft a waiver to that speed limit .
Private Pilot Airplane Single-Engine Checkride Requirements Eligibility Requirements ( <URL> ) Be at least 17 years of age for a rating in other than a glider or balloon Be able to read , speak , write , and understand the English language Instructor logbook endorsement certifying your aeronautical knowledge ( <URL> ) and that you are prepared for the written test Passed the written test and can present your original embossed Airman Knowledge Test Report Instructor logbook endorsement certifying your flight proficiency ( <URL> ) and that you are ready for the flight test Log all required aeronautical experience ( below ) Aeronautical Experience ( <URL> ) : 40 hours of flight time ( 35 for 141 schools ) that includes : 20 hours of dual instruction 10 hours of solo flight training 3 hours of cross-country dual 3 hours of night dual ( to get an unrestricted license ) that includes : 1 cross-country flight of over 100 nautical miles total distance 10 takeoffs and 10 landings to a full stop ( with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern ) at an airport 3 hours of instrument dual 3 hours of dual in preparation for the practical test within 2 calendar months 10 hours of solo including 5 hours of cross-country time 1 150 NM solo cross country flight , with full-stop landings at three points and one segment of the flight consisting of a straight-line distance of more than 50 NM between the takeoff and landing locations 3 takeoffs and 3 landings to a full stop ( with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern ) at an airport with an operating control tower
Most instructors say that ( in a low wing plane ) you should see the runway on the tip of the wing or between the tip and 1/4 in the wing . AOPA has a <URL> . This <URL> ( page 3 ) . This leg should be approximately 1/2 to 1 mile out from the landing runway , and at the specified traffic pattern altitude .
Ejection Seats are not a free ticket out . They are incredibly violent and rough on your body . This newspaper article has a more chilling quote from an interview : About one in three will get a spinal facture , due to the force when the seat is ejected - the gravitational force is 14 to 16 times normal gravity and it might be applied at 200G per second . Bruising and abrasions are typical from the shock of the chute opening or the air blast . In the early days , there were cases where pilots would eject into very-high-speed air and it would whip their arms behind and break them , pop their shoulders out ; same thing could happen to the legs . <URL> Hence , it is very possible to get back pains and a host of other problems as a result of ejecting . Since these type of things are not that easily reversible , you 'd rather take the safe path and remove then from the cockpit than put then back in a work environment that known is pretty hard on your body . Aircrew seem to agree : " It was the most violent thing I 've ever felt in my life , " says one of the B-1 crew members , whom the Air Force asked me to identify as " Captain IROC . " " I lost a full inch in height , " because his spine absorbed such tremendous G-forces . <URL> Modern ejection seats are however increasingly intelligent and will gauge the ejection force applied to the conditions , cutting down the number of serious cases . This <URL> discusses the symptoms of four individuals who crashed their jets in mid-air . The medical problems encountered with ejection can be classified as follows : Injuries from the emergency that causes ejection -- fire or collision . Canopy jettison : burns from " MDC splatter " and cuts from fragmented plastic . For these reasons , aircrew are always advised to wear their visors down , to protect the face . Firing of ejection gun : spinal injuries . Entering airflow : wind blast may cause lung damage ; seat tumbles at variable speed , which may be as high as 180 rpm . ( All seats have a drogue parachute or deployable aerodynamic panels to prevent tumbling ) ; flail injuries to extremities . Parachute deployment : snatch injuries . Landing : lower limb injuries .
The correct term is to vacate a runway . The term is used several times in the ICAO Manual of Radiotelephony ( Doc 9432 ) , including the following example ( among many ) : 4.9 After landing Unless absolutely necessary , controllers should not give taxi instructions to pilots until the landing roll is completed . Unless otherwise advised , pilots should remain on tower frequency until the runway is vacated . Pilot : Georgetown Ground Fastair 345 runway vacated ATC : Fastair 345 taxi to stand 27 via taxiway alpha And a relevant note from the same document : Note . -- The runway is vacated when the entire aircraft is beyond the relevant runway-holding position .
The closest to what you ask was maybe the <URL> experimental VTOL transport . Dornier Do-31 in hover . Picture <URL> It was developed to fly supplies to VTOL fighter bases . Makes no sense to have a VTOL fighter fleet if you can not supply them , right ? That was what the Do-31 was for , and the technically successful program folded when NATO abandoned the VTOL strategy in the Sixties . Compared to regional airliners of its time , the table below shows how much the installation of sufficient thrust has cut performance : I used the <URL> for comparison , because it is of similar size and age . As you can see , VTOL easily costs half the payload . 36 fully equipped troops may weigh more than 36 passengers , but they will sit on much lighter seats and have much more frugal accommodations . Note that I used the reduced take-off mass for VTOL flight , but have no information if that mass would have included the full payload . The range is valid only for the higher maximum take-off mass of 24.5 tons , for which a conventional take-off was necessary . The Do-31 could have fitted the Belgian airline <URL> , which at the time ( the Fifties and Sixities of the last century ) had the most advanced VTOL strategy of all airlines . They operated <URL> , but eventually reverted to regular aircraft well before the Do-31 would had been available . <URL> is still in operation after almost 40 years , but this is more a taxi service than an airline . Considering not only the increased fuel consumption , but also the increased maintenance cost on more and diverse engines ( most VTOL airplanes have dedicated lift engines ) , the operating cost even at the times of cheap fuel were too high to make the convenience worth it . I think it is possible to develop a VTOL A320 , but it would look very different , would cruise at a lower speed and have a much reduced payload and range . Tickets would be horrendously expensive , though . EDIT : Thanks to @egid for his suggestion to use mass fractions for comparison . Unfortunately , I found <URL> of the F-28 only for a later version , but the expanded table shows the point clearly : The useful load fraction is the result of dividing the difference between take-off mass and operating mass empty by the take-off mass , showing the sum of payload and fuel as a fraction of take-off mass . Adding lift engines , slow-speed controls and a rear loading ramp clearly reduced what could be carried in VTOL flight .
While there probably is an " ideal " attitude to impact water , and it would be nice to crash-land with exactly the correct attitude ... it 's very much a secondary consideration . By far the most important thing , when landing on water , is to land slowly . As such , your aim should be to land ( / crash ) with whatever attitude gives the lowest possible ground speed/descent rate at the point of impact . If that means a " normal " flare , do a normal flare . If that means a harsher flare with a tail strike , do that instead . The point is that you 're in an emergency situation , and your biggest priority is to get the speed right : you likely do n't have the luxury of trying to fine-tune your angle of impact and flare . Additionally , you always have the risk of over-flaring and stalling into the water instead , which is a worse end result . So yes , it may - with some airframes - be beneficial to have a tail strike , but you 're far better off just keeping the aircraft under the best control possible and reducing your speed as far as possible
What the text means is for triple simultaneous approaches for airports above 1,000 feet MSL , the FAA needs to conduct a case-by-case study . I.e. there is no automatic approval , yet . Also , but not related , for airports below 1,000 feet MSL , reduction in separation from 5,000 feet also requires a case-by-case study . ... impractical or the ... I do think the paragraph you quoted can benefit from better punctuation . Runway-to-runway separation does increase with elevation due to increased ground-speed and reduced reaction time . The case-by-case study is usually done via numerous trials . As for why 5000 feet , I was stuck in a loop between Annex 14 Volume I , PANS-ATM ( Doc 4444 ) , and the AC 150/5300 -13 A. Each quoting the other . Literally . The Manual On Simultaneous Operations On Parallel Or Near-Parallel Instrument Runways does indeed discuss reaction times . So , it 's fair to deduce the increased separation is to give more time for ATC to notice any deviation and have time to react . The FAA AIM does confirm the OFZ ( Obstacle Free Zone ) increases by 20 feet per 1000 feet elevation . The OFZ is in turn quoted as the reason for the runway separation increase the higher the airport is in the AC you quoted . In short , increased elevation/ground speed requires case-by-case study to approve or bring down the separation . It 's down to the reduced reaction time and airport equipment -- e.g. radar accuracy , refresh rate , and so on . The values themselves seem to be derived from trials plus added factor of safety plus rounding up . I ca n't find information on the trials . Separation is not reduced with increased elevation , it 's the opposite -- if the airports ( low and high ) have the same exact equipment .
They could but there really is no reason to do so . Most aircraft <URL> and are perfectly controllable in such situations ( provided they can actuate the control surfaces ) . As for the situation you propose there are a few issues with it , First off , <URL> is not <URL> and ca n't just be burned in the same way . The JATO engines are a bit different than the rocket assist that Space-X is using ( although the principal is similar ) . For takeoff the Jato engines help add to the totally available thrust and allow the plane to get off the ground in a shorter distance . The rockets are ( I believe ) single use and provide a very quick burst of thrust . As for the loss of control this depends on what causes the loss of control and how the rockets are affixed to the airframe . In the case of the Alaska airlines flight you reference the jack screw forced the tail into a position and prevented it from moving , this put the plane in an unrecoverable dive that would only be exacerbated by rocket engines unless you could control the angle at which they were pointed . Again in the outlined case you would need to be able to counteract the full surface deflection of a control surface . In essence you would need the kind of thrust control that <URL> . Now to answer the broad question of " could rocket thrusters be used to bring a disabled aircraft down softly " the short answer is yes . They could be added for such a task but the toll they take on the plane would make it a hard sell to the airlines . In short the use case is small and the added weight cuts into the profitability of the flight ( you need a lot of jet fuel and heavy thrusters to pull this off ) . On top of all that the system would have to be built and certified for use , a task that should not be taken lightly . In the end you get a safety system that has a small use case and a big impact on the aircraft . Perhaps the <URL> can learn from <URL> is the use of parachutes . The last and somewhat debatable point ( common to all safety systems ) is when do you actually turn it on ? What is your definition of unrecoverable ( yes this varies ) ? Cirrus teaches people to basically always pull the chute in an emergency . Are you going to teach pilots to to always trigger this rocket decent system even if the plane may be recoverable ? What if you run out of fuel before getting to the ground and now you are to low to recover from the rocket assisted decent ?
In case of air to air refueling , the ' receiver ' ( the aircraft being refueled ) should be careful about not getting into the wake of the tanker , which is usually much larger and heavy . For example , the NATO air-to-air refueling manual , <URL> : The area of extreme turbulence directly behind and slightly to the right of the tanker should be avoided . Blade stall and uncontrolled settling may be encountered if this area is entered . The receiving plane is usually flown below the wake turbulence of the tanker , in both the hose &amp; drogue and flying boom methods . Usually , the receiver is directly behind and around 10 ' below the tanker . For example , see <URL> In addition to turbulence , in case of close formation flying , there are other things to contend with , as explained in <URL> : In addition to the trailing air vortices the receiving aircraft must contend with downwash of airﬂow from the tanker . The affected local airﬂow typically exhibits a nose-down pitching moment on the receiver which , in turn , affects its speed and approach rate . Not only the receiver , the tanker should also be careful about flow disturbances . ... mostly between large transport aircraft , the lead aircraft experiences a change in its airﬂow caused by the bow wave , or upwash , from the receiver . This increases the angle of attack around the tanker 's tail which also results in a pitch-down motion . Under-running the tanker is particularly dangerous since the downwash effect will dissipate , resulting in the receiver pitching up . At the same time a tanker on altitude hold may instigate a nose-down pitch due to a perceived climb due to the decrease in pressure in the surrounding air , potentially leading to collision . The figure below shows some regions where disturbances would be encountered aft of a tanker . <URL> Typical spanwise airﬂow disturbances from a trailing tanker wake. ; image from <URL> by Peter . R. Thomas et . al. . In addition , the trailing aircraft should also be careful about the jet exhaust .
You would not attempt this . Aircraft are certified to climb with engines inoperative after V1 , they would just climb to a holding altitude and run the checklist . They would rather not attempt to any cruise altitude . Running the checklist you would determine if you are above the maximum landing weight ( MLW ) and decide to burn or if able , to dump fuel . Dumping fuel during the takeoff/rotation phase is not advisable to be honest , as you would leave a contaminated runway behind . Sure , most of the fuel will evaporate , but there will be a contamination nonetheless . I will quote <URL> 's comment shamelessly for another item to consider : According to <URL> a 747 can dump 6000 pounds of fuel per minute . Given that ( from what I found ) it typically carries at least 200,000 pounds , and has an MTOW of over 800,000 pounds , it seems unlikely you 'd dump enough fuel fast enough to make any difference .
An RTO can happen for any reason , mechanical , FOD , ATC error , etc. . The boss ( airline operations ) will want to know what happened . Safety Is everyone safe ? Is anyone in immediate danger ? Prepare documents for the NTSB investigation . Time How much time will be lost ( e.g. to cool the brakes ) ; this can affect the schedule of this particular plane days ahead . Especially if maintenance is required . Notify the destination airport of the delay , and also publish the delay for the next flight from said destination airport . Maintenance Make sure the airline 's maintenance stationed at the airport can deal with the issue . If not , get on the phone with airlines who can help . Find a replacement plane and send it over there . Get the all-clear from an airline engineer that the hot brakes wo n't affect another attempt . It depends on how hot they are . If a delay is expected , start the clock , airlines can keep passengers on a stationary plane for so long , I guess it 's two hours . Been there , it 's awful . If it will take more , find them a gate , if no gate is available , get the stairs and a bus . Whose fault was it ? Get a grip on the PR before things get out of hand , i.e. tweet . If anyone is suspected of not doing their job properly , start an investigation . If the ATC is at fault , send them the bill . If it is another airline 's fault , call the insurance company . Fuel Not really an issue for an aborted take-off after few seconds of take-off thrust , but nonetheless run the numbers again . Both in the cockpit and in the ops center .
This is for safety reasons . Take-Off and Landing are the two most critical phases of flight and thus , every additional step to ensure survivability , be it even just adjusting the light , is taken . The interior lights or cabin lights are adjusted to match the exterior environment , so that in case of an emergency , especially if the interior lights fail , your eyes are already accustomed to the light setting and you do not require additional valuable seconds for adjustment to a possibly darker or brighter environment . The lights are usually adjusted at dusk , night or dawn to match the exterior environment . <URL> If the cabing lights do not fail during an emergency , the dimmed light also makes it easier to identify the " EXIT " signs which illuminate and make the guidance lighting on the floor easier to follow . The bright emergency lighting is more prominent to identify when the cabin light is dimmed , saving valuable seconds as the aircraft is evacuated . This also ties in with having to raise the blinds on the windows . The blinds need to be raised during take-off and landing irrespective of the outside light situation , however , with a darker cabin , any outside light source , especially from fires or other hazards is easier to identify by the crew , making the decision process of whether one side could be inappropriate to use for evacuation faster , e.g. fire on port side -- > no evacation on that side . The blinds are therefore raised to allow a better view for cabin crew of the outside area and external aircraft parts , such as engines , wings , etc. . See also this related question : <URL>
How the Swiss Air pilots got paid would , of course , depend on Swiss Air policy . I suspect pay policies vary greatly between airlines and countries , but for what it 's worth below are the pay policies for the four airlines I worked for in the 1980s and 1990s . At all four I would have been credited with only the time from push back until the parking brake was set on return insofar as flight time was concerned , but as you will see that would n't have made any significant difference in my pay . commuter # 1 no union -- a straight salary but with an hourly addition if your flight time went over a minimum , which it never did . commuter # 2 no union -- a straight salary regardless of the number of hours flown , but they never abused that . 747 freight carrier no union -- a straight salary plus an hourly addition if your flight time went over a minimum , which it occasionally did . 747 passenger carrier in-house union -- flight time hourly pay with a guaranteed minimum . You always went substantially over the minimum . They tried to get you as close as possible to the regulatory max of 1000 hours a year . Additionally , they had a policy that whenever your duty time ( as opposed to flight time ) went over 16 consecutive hours , you got paid for each hour over that at a rate of 1.5 times your regular hourly flight time rate . Also , you were paid half your regular hourly flight rate while deadheading . Then , if you had less than 8 hours ( I might not be remembering that number correctly ) between assignments , your duty time continued . My first assignment for this airline was a 32-hour duty day . I operated from JFK to AMS ( Amsterdam ) , so my duty time started at show time , 2 hours before departure . At Amsterdam 5 hours on the ground then commercialling ( riding in the back on another airline ) to SIN ( Singapore ) and then to CGK ( Jakarta ) positioning for a Hajj flight . Crew scheduling regularly abused pilots , but nobody complained because you were being so well paid when they did abuse you . The breakdown for hours at the flight time rate for that trip was approximately : 7.5 hours operating time JFK-AMS 8 hours deadheading pay AMS-SIN-CGK ( half of 16 hours riding in the back ) 24 hours extended duty pay ( 32 hours duty time minus 16 hour threshold times 1.5 ) So , 39.5 pay hours at the regular new first officer rate of 55 per hour = 2,172.50 , which looked pretty good to me since I had come from a carrier than paid me a straight 4500 per month salary as a 747 captain . I ca n't remember all the flight time/duty time details , but back then at least the international rules were much less restrictive than the domestic rules . Also , back then it was common practice to do things like scheduling a flight for , say , 11:59 for regulatory purposes , when everyone knew it would go slightly over the 12-hour international rule of the time . It may be worth noting here , that the mind-set of the crew , at least the cockpit crew , is totally different from that of passengers . The passenger wants to get from point A to point B , whereas the crew is simply ' at work ' regardless of whether they go anyplace or not . Consequently , at least in my experience and opinion , delays are n't nearly as frustrating to crew as they are to passengers .
end question
start question
What is the purpose of a Victor Airway ?
An airway ( Victor or otherwise ) is just a standard route for aircraft to fly on in the national airspace system - for all practical purposes they are literally highways in the sky ( with the lanes being stacked vertically rather than horizontally ) . This is part of the paradoxical logic of how ATC provides separation services for IFR aircraft : " You have to put them together to keep them apart . " -- In an environment with no radar , or in crowded airspace , having everyone following a standard routing ensures that you know what each plane is going to do . If you have 10 aircraft all flying along an airway and each separated by altitude or time you know they wo n't hit each other We define the attributes ( width , minimum altitude , etc. ) of a victor airway mainly for purposes of obstacle clearance : A VOR has a specific degree of precision in its measurement , and if we assume the maximum distance from the VOR ( the widest degree of arc ) and the maximum allowable " slop " in the VOR receiver/indicator in the aircraft that means an aircraft that thinks it 's " on the airway " will be somewhere within a given width around the defining radial : For Victor airways that width is 8 nautical miles - 4NM on either side of the centerline radial - or 4.5 degrees if the VORs are more than 102 nautical miles apart . Those numbers may sound like they 're arbitrary , but they are n't : If the VORs are exactly 102 nautical miles apart then the width of the airway at the 51 nautical mile midpoint between the two VORs is - you guessed it - 4 nautical miles . The further apart the VORs are the wider the center of the corridor becomes , accounting for the fact that a degree of arc gets wider as you get further from the VOR . Airways are an IFR construct so if we continue on the assumption that the plane is in the clouds and the pilot ca n't see anything then within the airway corridor the aircraft needs to be clear of any obstacles ( towers , trees , etc. ) , and of course it needs to be able to receive the VORs that define the airway . The combination of those factors and a few others will determine the minimum altitude at which a given airway can be used . Note that much like ground highways airways are not always the most direct or convenient way to fly from one location to another . In particular the Victor airways are defined by VOR radials ( or the intersections of such radials ) , but they 're not always a straight line between two VORs . As an example , take a look at <URL> : The airway I picked ( V451 ) will take me from Groton VOR ( GON ) to La Guardia VOR ( LGA ) , but it bends in three places on this route : CREAM , KEYED , and NESSI ( not labeled on the sectional , but its the bend southeast of Bridgeport ) . A straight line between the two VORs would be the 265 radial from Groton direct to La Guardia : A much shorter distance , but not a " standard " airway routing .
It 's been a while since my last lessons on radars , but . . The pulse length and the pulse repetition frequency play key roles in radar min and max ranges . The pulse the radar sends must be short enough to end ( and the radar switch to detection mode ) before the reflection returns . To give a rough example , if the pulse length is 2 ms , the theoretical minimum range would be equal to pulse distance in 1 ms ( 1 there and 1 back ) . The pulse travels at light speed , so you can calculate the distance there . Note that the pulse lengths differ a lot depending on radars , and presumably none of the are 1 ms long . Free quote from the book Understanding Radar Systems : Pulse length of 3 µs , which is a fairly typical pulse length for a long-range airborne surveillance radar , would give a theoretical range resolution of 450 m. However , other factors such as signal processing degrade the resoution , and in the given case the resolution would be around 750 m. Note again , that radars are designed to serve a specific purpose , for example a long-range surveillance radar emphasizes range over resolution . What it comes to fighters , most modern fighters have <URL> instead of pulse radars , which work continuously and handle the signal differently .
Flutter is a phenomenon that can occur when a structure is subjected to aerodynamic forces . It occurs not only in aircraft but also for example in buildings , power lines , road signs and bridges . Flutter is an oscillation caused by interaction of aerodynamic forces , structural elasticity and inertial effects . Perhaps the best known example of flutter is the bridge over the <URL> that collapsed due to flutter in gale force winds . Flutter in aircraft causes the wings and / or stabilizers to oscillate . When the airspeed increases the energy added in each oscillation to the structure by the aerodynamic forces increases . At some speed the damping of the structure may be insufficient to absorb the energy increase from the aerodynamic loads and the amplitude of the harmonic oscillations will grow until the structure breaks . A flutter test is performed to determine what speed flutter occurs yet is still damped . Theoretically an aircraft should be able to stay structurally intact up to the design dive speed ( $ V_d $ ) which is at least 1.4 times the design cruise speed . In flight tests , the $ V_d $ is not always demonstrated as this is very risky since there would not be any margin from breaking up . The maximum speed is slowly increased in subsequent flight tests with careful data analyses in between up to a point where the test team decides that it is no longer safe to continue . This establishes the maximum demonstrated dive speed ( $ V _ { df } $ ) ; the published maximum operating speed ( $ V _ { mo } $ ) and never-exceed speed ( $ V _ { ne } $ ) are well below $ V _ { df } $ to give margin from disaster . This <URL> in a Hawker 800 . The incident occurred not during testing but was caused by <URL> ( FAA PDF ) .
A <URL> mentions that the UK borrowed the numbering system from the US . I believe the magnetic headings were adopted by the RAF in the UK early in 1944 and were inspired by American practice . Prior to that , RAF runways were numbered clockwise from north . From the <URL> on page 515 from the snippet view ( unfortunately ca n't find a fully scanned version ) there 's mention of a plan based on recommendations to number the runways . <URL> This is confirmed by <URL> : <URL> So the when is circa 1943 , the who is US Department of Commerce . It caught on by regulation based on recommendations . Naming runways north-south or 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 were probably very confusing as the number of users grew .
Definitions always depend on their context , that is why documents often included a list of definitions . It allows authors to define terms in the context of the document . A definition context is not always a document , it could for example be a field of expertise as well . The Commercial Aviation Safety Team / International Civil Aviation Organization ( CAST/ICAO ) <URL> ( CICTT ) <URL> as : The aircraft is moving on the aerodrome surface under its own power prior to takeoff or after landing More detail can be found in the <URL> definition document . This is definition can be applied in many situations . The Eurocontrol definition you link to comes from the Air Traffic Flow &amp; Capacity Management ( ATFCM ) and Airport Collaborative Decision Making ( A-CDM ) domains where statistics about gate-to-runway time play an important role for planning purposes . In that context it is not really interesting to distinguish the time that was spend in pushback from the time spend actually taxiing to the runway . The taxi-out time is hence defined as the time between off-blocks and take-off .
Each vessel , whether land , sea , or air , should ( might ) have a defined afterbody . The afterbody is <URL> as : The afterpart of a vehicle ; The part of a vessel abaft midships ; A companion body that trails a satellite or spacecraft ; A section or piece of a launch vehicle , rocket , or spacecraft that enters the atmosphere unprotected behind the nose cone or other body that is protected for entry and Merriam-Webster Online <URL> it as : : the after part of a body : such as a : the part of a ship abaft midships b : the bottom portion of a seaplane hull or float aft of the main step To show you , visually , an easy to see set of examples , consider the following pictures of floatplanes ( seaplanes ) : In the first and second images , the afterbody is that part of the aircraft behind the step , which is the little ' notch ' or , well , ' step ' just behind the main wheels . In the third picture , the afterbody is everything after the step , which is the more steeply angled section under the wings . The step is generally just aft of the center of gravity of the plane . Generally speaking , if one were to discuss the afterbody of a large airliners , such as the Airbus A380 , the afterbody would be the fuselage from the wings back , but not including the tail ( where the rudder and elevators are . ) I could not find any Airbus references to ' afterbody ' however . I did find some references to the afterbody of a Boeing 787 , being that part of the plane behind the pressurized cabin , which is the very back of the plane , including the tail . Not a very good solid definition where everyone agrees , sorry .
In a jet engine using the <URL> , number 4 is the station numbering of combustor exit/turbine nozzle guide vane leading edge , and T4 is the temperature at this station . <URL> ( <URL> ) From this document ( in French ) : <URL> which is a thesis by Elodie Roux , this table on page 198 : <URL> tells us the T4 temperature is 1633 K , that is 1360 ° C.
Assuming this is the standard inclined plane task from physics textbook , as <URL> for instance , the acceleration is $ a = g \ cdot \ sin ( \ theta ) $ where $ a $ is acceleration , $ g $ is the free fall acceleration ( 9.8 m/s ^ 2 ) and $ \ theta $ is the pitch angle down ( 0 assuming horizontal ) . This equation applies does not take the air resistance into consideration so would only apply to relatively slow speeds . Interestingly , under these conditions the acceleration does not depend on the mass of the plane . The equation should also apply for the positive pitch angles , but the acceleration would be negative in this case ( slowing down ) .
Well , the SDR dongle paid off - mystery solved . It turns out , the signal was actually at 153.2 MHz , but was somehow breaking through into 110.515 MHz on my handheld scanner . The signal originates from a high power pager transmitter using the FLEX protocol . As this is plain text , I decoded some of it using an excellent open source application called PDW , and have listed it below for reference and general interest ( sensitive information has been redacted ! ) .
The main benefit of biplanes is that the lift can be distributed across both wings . This provides more lift with less wingspan and places less load on each wing . Less load means the materials can have lower strength . This was very important in the early days of aviation , when engine power , materials , and weight were much more limited . The major downside of a biplane is aerodynamics . The wings interfere with each other , causing drag . While structural bracing between the wings can reduce weight , it also adds more drag . <URL> A biplane configuration does not make much sense for delta wings . The main drawback of a biplane is drag , but drag increases with the square of velocity , and delta wings are best in high-speed flight . <URL> , they have higher viscous drag due to the large surface area . A second delta wing will add more area , increasing both wave drag ( from the cross section ) and viscous drag ( from the surface ) . Configuration of the aircraft also becomes problematic . Most aircraft with delta wings tend to be fairly flat , allowing lower area and therefore lower drag . The closer the wings are , the more they will interfere . The further apart they are , the more structure is needed , either in a larger fuselage or in structural braces , which increases weight and drag .
The FAA has <URL> on ASDE-X , most of which I personally have no idea how to interpret correctly . The <URL> in particular has a lot of technical details on radar performance and although I did n't understand much of it I did notice this requirement : 3.6.3 Map Registration The display of target data shall [ R306 ] be registered to the display map with an accuracy of at least 20 feet . So whatever the technical capabilities of the system are , operationally it seems that you can assume it 's accurate to within 20ft , which seems to be reasonable in the context of large aircraft . You may be able to get more out of the documentation than I could , of course .
I may have more news on that next week from Sun 'n Fun 2017 . Pipistrel will be an exhibitor at the show and may have a Panthera prototype on display . Currently the Panthera is planned to be released as an experimental kit and may be type certified at some point in the future . I know the program has suffered some setbacks , including an increase of empty weight by some 200 lbs . New aircraft development is never fast nor without complications . The Panthera does look intriguing - 200 KIAS on 10 GPH with good , stable flight characteristics and modern avionics , BRS parachute , etc. . I want to take it for a demo flight when production examples become available .
The fundamental benefit is that the operator does n't have to make a lot of adjustments on " legacy " airplanes , they can " simply " install the arm on the existing aircraft that they already have in service . And this is the main selling point for such a device , they are not marketing it to operators that still have to buy or lease an airliner , but to those that already have one and might want to reduce the number of pilots they have to employ . Gürkan Çetin notes in the comments that this device is not certified ( yet ) . That 's partially the point of such demonstrations , to convince authorities that it can be certified , and to incentivate operators to lobby for their approval .
To become an Air Force pilot , you have to be a commissioned officer , there are few ways you can do that . First you can go through the Air Force Academy , which is probably the most common . Another way is to be in an ROTC program through your college of choice . The last way I know of is to graduate college and join the Air Force through the officer candidate school ( OCS ) . Regardless of the method you choose , there are certain requirements you must meet : Be a U.S. Citizen Have any 4 year college degree or be within 365 days of attaining it Minimum 2.5 GPA ( although I 'd be surprised if they took you that low ) Under the age of 28 by the board convening date Have a standing height of 64-77 inches and a sitting height of 34-40 inches Have no history of hay fever , asthma , or allergies after the age of 12 Meet USAF weight and physical conditioning requirements Normal color vision Meet refraction , accommodation , and astigmatism requirements Distance vision can not exceed 20/20 uncorrected or must be corrected to 20/20 or better Near vision can not exceed 20/40 uncorrected or must be corrected to 20/20 or better If you 've met those requirements you can then go through the Air Force Officer Qualifying Test ( AFOQT ) and through Military Entrance Processing Station ( MEPS ) for your intellectual and physical evaluation . If you pass those tests , you may be selected for the Officer Candidate School ( if not joining through ROTC or Academy ) . After that you go into undergraduate pilot training ( UPT ) where you spend a year learning to fly through academic and hands-on training . Depending on how you perform at UPT you will receive a seat assignment . Higher scores are selected for fighter training while lower scores move towards transport aircraft . You can voice your opinion on what you want to fly , but ultimately the decision is driven by the needs of the Air Force at the time you graduate UPT . After UPT , you will move to Advanced Flight Training ( AFT ) which is between 6 months and a year long depending on the aircraft you 've been assigned . After AFT you 'll be assigned a squadron and location . If you do n't meet height requirements There is a waiver process , although getting a waiver for height requirements is extremely rare ( if not completely unheard of ) . The issue is that the ejection systems are designed for a specific height . This process starts by appealing a medical review board which you are allowed to write a letter to argue your position , however even with a waiver you would probably not be assigned a fighter aircraft . You would probably be assigned an aircraft that does not have an ejection system like transport or mid-air refueling aircraft . As <URL> mentions in the comments , the T6 training aircraft is also equipped with an ejection seat and if you ca n't fly the trainer , you ca n't progress on . The only other alternative to be a US Air Force pilot outside of height requirements is to be an unmanned aircraft pilot . Source 1 : <URL> Source 2 : <URL>
How do you define a crew duty day ? When does it start and when does it end ? In the most simplistic terms , a crew 's duty day can be defined in two parts : the " flight duty period " ( FDP ) and the " flight time " . The FDP begins when the crew " clocks in " for their shift . There might be administrative duties to accomplish prior to flying , so " flight time " has not yet started . The FDP ends when the last flight that they operate blocks in . The Flight Time begins and ends with each Block Out to Block In , and there might be several individual flights within a single FDP . Once the FDP is over , they might still be required to attend to admin duties , but their FDP " clock " has stopped ticking . Their " rest " clock has not yet started , just because their FDP has ended . ( Some of these terms and definitions will be expanded upon later . ) Also what are the legal limits ( in other words how long can a crew duty day last in terms of hours ) ? This is an extremely complicated question , and the rest of this answer will be devoted to this , in conjunction with your other sub-questions . [ Are there ] standardized set of rules ? Not necessarily rules , per se ... but the ICAO does have a lot of documentation about duty/rest , fatigue management , and the effects on safety . Although the ICAO can not publish laws , most of it 's member nations write their aviation laws in close conjunction with ICAO 's recommendations . These nations have ratified treaties stating that they will " abide by " most of the ICAO 's recommendations . does each country define its own rules ? Yes , each regulatory body has its own laws for determining duty/rest requirements . Most are very similar , and based on the ICAO 's body of documentation and research . Narrowing this down even further , each carrier develops it 's own policies and procedures that are based on ( and approved by ) it 's parent nation 's regulatory body . What happens when you fly say from the US to Australia ? Which set of rules prevail ? You will follow the policies of your air carrier , which are enforced by your carrier 's country of registration . Let 's start with the US . Ok , within the US , most of the rules regarding duty/rest for Part 121 Air Carriers are enumerated in <URL> . There are some " All Cargo " duty/rest requirements under Part 121 <URL> ( Domestic ) , <URL> ( Flag ) , and <URL> ( Supplemental ) ; however , carriers can chose to use these 121 Subparts OR Part 117 , but not both . Once they make that choice ( listed in their GOM/OpSpecs and approved by the FAA ) , they are stuck with it . What is the exact definition of a " crew duty day " ? As noted in the comments of the question , this is not a legal term within the US FARs . Under Part 117 , we find the definition for these related terms : Calendar day means a 24-hour period from 0000 through 2359 using Coordinated Universal Time or local time . Duty means any task that a flightcrew member performs as required by the certificate holder , including but not limited to flight duty period , flight duty , pre - and post-flight duties , administrative work , training , deadhead transportation , aircraft positioning on the ground , aircraft loading , and aircraft servicing . Flight duty period ( FDP ) means a period that begins when a flightcrew member is required to report for duty with the intention of conducting a flight , a series of flights , or positioning or ferrying flights , and ends when the aircraft is parked after the last flight and there is no intention for further aircraft movement by the same flightcrew member . A flight duty period includes the duties performed by the flightcrew member on behalf of the certificate holder that occur before a flight segment or between flight segments without a required intervening rest period . Examples of tasks that are part of the flight duty period include deadhead transportation , training conducted in an aircraft or flight simulator , and airport/standby reserve , if the above tasks occur before a flight segment or between flight segments without an intervening required rest period . Rest period means a continuous period determined prospectively during which the flightcrew member is free from all restraint by the certificate holder , including freedom from present responsibility for work should the occasion arise . From there , it can get extremely complicated and an airline 's crew scheduler probably could not do their job without the aid of a computer . Flight crewmembers are restricted to a certain number of hours in a duty period , and there are limits to cumulative hours as well : total Flight Time can not exceed : -- 100 hours in any 672 consecutive hours or -- 1,000 hours in any 365 consecutive calendar day period . And then ... total Flight Duty Period can not exceed : 60 flight duty period hours in any 168 consecutive hours or 190 flight duty period hours in any 672 consecutive hours . They are required to have a certain number of hours of " rest " in between these duty periods , and those rest hou
According to <URL> , is defined as : ... the period between the end of evening civil twilight and the beginning of morning civil twilight , or such other period between sunset and sunrise as may be prescribed by the appropriate authority , as defined by the Member State . ( The FAA and ICAO use a similar definition . ) You can get the Civil Twilight times from <URL> , but ignoring the specifics , the same rule of thumb the FAA uses for purposes of night currency will likely work for you too : Night starts one hour after sunset ( Sunset being when the last of the visible sun disc drops below the horizon . ) Night ends one hour before sunrise ( Sunrise being when the first of the visible sun disk breaks the horizon . ) This actually cheats you out of a few minutes of " night " on either side of the calculation , but it 's conservative guidance if you 're conservative in what you log you wo n't accidentally mess up and give yourself more night time than you 're really entitled too ( i.e. you wo n't make yourself " night current " when you really are n't ) . Note that I 'm a US pilot -- since all my flying and training is based on FAA regs in the US if I 'm completely off the mark and any European pilots or CFIs want to set me right it would be much appreciated :-)
A <URL> is any sensor that detects whether there is something in its proximity ( within specified distance ) . There are many kinds of proximity sensors ( optical , magnetic , capacitive etc. ) that detect different kinds of target objects and to various distances . In this case , proximity sensor is used to detect position of the spoiler . Proximity sensors are preferred over micro-switches because they are more reliable , since they have no moving parts and thus do n't wear out . For parts actuated with hydraulics they are the only way to detect the position , since hydraulic actuators do n't provide any direct way for detecting their position ( compared to electric actuators , where in some cases the response of the actuator can be used to detect the position ; the principle is similar to a magnetic proximity sensor anyway though ) .
I think the answer depends on what the birds are doing , but all options are basically " at the pilot 's risk " - the tower is just advising you there are some birds hanging around the airport , but nobody can say how they 're going to react to you trying to land there too . If the flock is airborne and flying across the final ( completely neglecting to coordinate their movements with tower , as birds are wont to do ) you can request an extended downwind until they 've moved on . This has happened to me twice , and in my experience birds tend to be far less interested in airports than pilots . They 're usually gone in a minute or two . If they 're sitting on the runway somewhere you can try a low pass over the field to scare them off , but my preference would be to ask the tower/unicom operator if they can chase them away for me with a ground vehicle ( so I 'm not near the flock in case they decide to disperse " upward " instead of " outward " ) . If they 're just pecking around in the grass near the approach end of the runway looking for lunch <URL> &amp; <URL> have the right idea with a go-around or low approach/overflight to scare them off . ( This is part of why a low pass over an unattended uncontrolled field is often advisable -- you 'll hopefully scare off any critters on the runway that you would n't want there when you actually land . ) If they 're " airport birds " you might want to just land . Some of the airports by me have resident flocks of birds that I 'm convinced just sit there and rate people 's landings - I swear I saw the same birds every day shooting touch-and-gos . These are the kind of birds that are n't going to scatter when you do a low pass unless you hit them with your landing gear , so just be aware of where they are ( in case they lose their minds and try to commit suicide by propeller ) but they probably wo n't bother you . I do n't think I 'd ask for a downwind landing because of birds ( unless we 're talking geese or hawks or something ) , but if it 's a calm-wind day , the pattern is empty , and you 're more comfortable with that idea go ahead and ask . The worst the tower can do is say " unable " .
There are two factors which limit the possible speed of piston engines : <URL> , and relative speed of moving parts , here the pistons in their cylinder barrels . If the engine runs too fast , the flame front originating from the spark plug will not have traveled far enough to have burnt most of the fuel by the time the piston moves down again . This puts a fundamental limit to the growth in power output over speed in piston engines . Also , if the relative speed between moving parts is too high , the lubrication will fail and the parts will overheat quickly . In order to run at the highest possible speed , <URL> used castor oil , which in turn motivated early aviators to wear long scarves over their mouth so their digestive system would not be compromised by sitting right in the exhaust stream of their engine . Today , lubricants have improved but still set a clear limit to the maximum speed at which a piston engine can be run . Cooling can be managed by pressurizing the cooling system and improving radiator and pump performance while inertial loads on the engine components can be dealt with by lightweight , high-strength materials . Reducing the <URL> will allow a higher speed before the ignition limit bites while reducing the <URL> will reduce piston speeds , again allowing a higher engine speed before lubrication fails . An optimimized engine will balance both so that the possible speed can be fully exploited . For the IO-360 and IO-540 , those dimensions are 5 ⅛ " and 4 ⅜ " , respectively . This places them below the <URL> and closer to the typical <URL> . I could not find reliable data on the engine speed of <URL> , which should come close to the maximum sensible engine speed at that size class . The best I could find was the 3,700 RPM of the <URL> , an engine with 5.9 " bore and 6.5 " stroke , so I would guess by using good fuel and lubrication , the Lycoming might end up somewhere between 4000 and 4500 RPM . I 'm sceptical that much useful power can be extracted at 5000 RPM and am sure that the lifetime at this speed will be measured in minutes , not hours .
The distribution of how pilots get to the majors is bimodal . If you can get a military pilot slot and give 4-10 years to the USAF , you can then get an FAA ATP and start interviewing at whatever majors are hiring and have your ex-mil buddies on the hiring board . Great way to get in at FedEx or UPS . This costs a few grand for your ATP but that 's about it . If you ca n't get a military slot , getting up to the point you can instruct from nothing can vary wildly in cost . The accelerated flight training programs will do this for around $ 70,000 . Next you instruct until you hit 135 mins and do either that or instructing . At this point you should n't be paying for time anymore . When you get on at a regional you 'll sit right seat for a few to many years then you 'll upgrade . After about 1.5-2 years in the left seat you 'll have the bare minimums to apply at a major .
end question
start question
When using the phonetic alphabet , for airways , should we say Uniform or Upper ?
ICAO ICAO Annex 11 and Doc 4444 confirm the usage of Upper . Airways are four groups per ICAO , the older group is <URL> . Those stand for Amber , Blue , Green , and Red . There are three other groups . So an airway named UG1 will be called Upper Green ( not Golf ) One on the radio . Example they give in Doc 4444 : N0450F310 L9 UL9 STU285036/M082F310 UL9 LIMRI ( ... ) the flight will proceed on Airways Lima 9 and Upper Lima 9 to a point bearing 285 degrees magnetic and 36 NM from the Strumble VOR . From this ( ... ) <URL> also confirms it , check page 251 : <URL> FAA ( for airways only ) Q is called Q ( kyo͞o ) on the radio ( not Quebec ) , J is called J , not Juliet or Jet ( Jet is what it means ) . See <URL> 2 − 5 − 1 AIR TRAFFIC SERVICE ( ATS ) ROUTES . VOR/VORTAC/TACAN airways or jet routes . State the word " Victor " or the letter " J " followed by the number of the airway or route in group form . EXAMPLE − " Victor Twelve . " " J Five Thirty − Three . " The FAA is similar in using the color code for the aforementioned group : Colored/L/MF airways . State the color of the airway followed by the number in group form . EXAMPLE − " Blue Eighty − One . " Also check the <URL> , page 2-24 of <URL> , here are two examples they give : UR5 -- Upper Romeo Five UW456 -- Upper Whiskey Four Fifty Six Yes the FAA handbook does not agree with their ATC Job Order regarding R being Red ( this will be for the <URL> such as those still in Alaska ) . Note : the question asks about airways , the information here is not for tail numbers , navaids , etc. , only airways . See here for how the FAA decides on the designations : <URL>
My answer was rather concise first , and I got the impression that I need to elaborate the question first . The question is about the best airspeed for maximum range . With wind . Best range means you cover the most distance while the wind is carrying the plane with it . If you have a headwind , the longer you stay aloft , the more you are carried back , so you better hurry up . With a tailwind , it helps to slow down because now the wind is helping you to cover even more distance . But how much ? We need to pick that particular speed where the change in fuel consumption just balances the change in speed over ground . I always found that easier to explain with gliders , and there you can really observe which polar point is best . Just picture yourself as an observer on the ground who sees the plane fly by in the distance . If you plot a line with the combination of positions and altitude , there must be one flight speed that produces a line where the flight path angle is the shallowest . This is the desired optimum . That has only little to do with optimum L/D - this is just one other point you can find with a sink speed polar . And it happens to be the point for best glide in still air . But there is so much more that humble polar will tell you , if you look at it the right way . With powered aircraft you need to pick the polar point where your fuel flow is lowest for the given speed over ground . Basically , you fly like the glider and add enough power to stay at the same altitude . That is all the difference . User2168 has answered that part already with a graphical solution . OK , now back to gliders . Please look at the plot below which shows airspeed on the X axis and sink speed on the Y axis . The solution is graphical : You start on the X-axis at the point which corresponds to the wind speed and put a tangent on the sink speed graph . Where the tangent touches the sink polar ( blue line ) , the plane flies at the best L/D for that given wind speed . Move the starting point to positive speeds for headwind and to negative speeds ( not shown here ) for tailwind . If the term " best L/D " is already reserved in your mind , please read this as the " best polar point " . It is really the same . Since User2168 has beaten me to the graphical solution , I will add an analytical solution . For powered flight things become more tricky , because thrust changes with speed . To simplify things , we can say that thrust changes over speed in proportion to the expression $ v ^ { n_v } $ where $ n_v $ is a constant which depends on engine type . Piston aircraft have constant power output , and thrust is inverse with speed over the speed range of acceptable propeller efficiencies , hence $ n_v $ becomes -1 for piston aircraft . Turboprops make some use of ram pressure , so they profit a little from flying faster , but not much . Their $ n_v $ is -0.8 to -0.6 . Turbofans are better in utilizing ram pressure , and their $ n_v $ is -0.5 to -0.2 . The higher the bypass ratio , the more negative their $ n_v $ becomes . Jets ( think J-79 or even the old Jumo-004 ) have constant thrust over speed , at least in subsonic flow . Their $ n_v $ is approximately 0 . Positive values of $ n_v $ can be found with ramjets - they develop more thrust the faster they move through the air . Now for fuel flow : This goes up and down with the power output of the engine . Again a simplification , but it helps to get to grips with the problem and gives useful results . This lets us re-formulate the problem as : At what airspeed do I have the best ratio between power and ground speed ? Mathematically , we want to fly with $ \ frac { P } { v_w + v } $ at the lowest possible value . $ P$ is the power , $ v_w $ is the wind speed and $ v $ the airspeed . To express the thrust behavior over speed , I break P up into a product of a constant $ K_S $ , the throttle setting $ \ delta $ and the speed like this : $ K_S \ cdot \ delta \ cdot v \ cdot v ^ { n_v } $ . Here is the general solution , pasted as a PNG to save me all the typing in the editor : Please note that implicitly the lift coefficient is on both sides of the equation . To solve it , you need to do it recursively , until speed and lift coefficient match . I took this form because of the similarity to the general form at still wind which can be found in many performance books . This here I did n't find anywhere , and it took me a while to figure it out . Thank you , Lnafziger , for the excellent question ! It gave me a chance to learn something . Now I have put the results into a plot . In order to eliminate the aircraft-specific parameters , it shows the ratio of $ c_L $ with wind over $ c_L $ without wind . The plot is metric , but will work for all units if you use the same units for wind speed and air speed . To give an example for the application of the correction factor : If you are flying in a 20 m/s headwind and your best range speed at still wind is 50 m/s ( approx 97 kts ) , the $ c_L $ needs to be 70 % of the $ c_L $ at still wind for piston-powered aircraft . This makes your corrected airspeed 60 m/s ( v is proportional to $ \ sqrt { c_L
FLC mode maintains airspeed during a climb or descent , while VS mode maintains a specific vertical speed . Often air traffic controllers will request that you " maintain 250 knots in the descent " or something to that effect , which is much easier to achieve when using Flight Level Change . As another answer points out , by maintaining airspeed , climbs are made safer as the autopilot will not attempt to maintain a rate of climb regardless of whether or not the airspeed is safe . FLC mode is typically only available in advanced autopilots , and as far as I know they need to connect to an Air Data Computer to get the necessary information . How to use FLC would depend on the equipment available to you : aircraft with auto throttle will maintain speed and an appropriate rate of descent automatically . for aircraft without auto throttle you 'd set your target altitude , enable FLC , adjust your target speed if needed , and set your throttle for climb or descent to maintain the desired altitude change rate . I 'm referencing the Garmin GFC700 as it 's the only autopilot I 've used with FLC mode , but I imagine the same steps and rules would apply .
First , a word of caution - Do n't attempt your own oil changes on an aircraft unless you 're familiar with the process , and have both the tools and skills you 'll need to get it done right . It 's probably a good idea to have your mechanic supervise you on your first oil change , and check your work on the next few until you 're sure you 've got the hang of it . This is n't an oil-change how-to - just a list of stuff to look at to judge the general health of an engine . Disclaimers and warnings out of the way , here 's what I look for ( or ask the shop to check ) during an oil change : Draining that dirty old oil First , do n't forget to grab a sample for oil analysis while you 're draining ( I 'll talk about that a little later ! ) . Now , while the oil is running out of the drain you 're really looking for big chunks of metal coming out with it ( or heaven forbid blocking the drain hole ) You also want to make sure there is no nasty <URL> coming out ( that 's a car in the video , but the principle is the much same ) . Basically what 's coming out of the drain should look like oil . It 'll be dirty ( dark to black , rather than the pretty clear-ish liquid you poured into the engine all those hours ago ) , but it should still be flowing nicely . Obviously chunks of metal here would be bad . If you 're noticing them in the drained oil you 've got some serious mechanical damage in your engine and you need a mechanic to check it out . Sludge generally means you need to talk to your mechanic too - often it means a bunch of low-time oil changes to clean out the gunk from the engine , but if it 's severe it could indicate other engine problems that need attention Checking the Oil Screen If your engine has an oil suction screen that can be removed and cleaned ( as on most Lycoming engines ) , remove it and inspect it for any pieces of metal , then clean it and reinstall it . As with chunks in the drained oil , bits of metal in the screen are often a sign of a serious mechanical problem - if you find any you 're going to want to talk to your mechanic . Inspecting the Oil Filter As part of every oil change the filter should be cut open and inspected for fine metallic particles in the pleats . There are a few of ways to do this ( one is to simply stretch the pleats out under a bright light and look at them , another is to wash the filter in a solvent and strain the used solvent through a coffee filter to see if any particles are left behind ) . <URL> If you find any bits of metal in the filter you already know what I 'm going to say -- you 're going to want a mechanic to check things out . A very small amount of metal may not be a serious issue , or it might be the beginnings of an engine on a path to self-destruction . Run an oil analysis Some people do an oil analysis every oil change , some people do n't ever do one . Smarter people than me say it 's probably a good idea to do them , so I consider it to be cheap insurance and a good window into where those " bits of metal " I keep talking about above might eventually start coming from . There are plenty of companies that do aviation oil analysis and for an idea on what 's in the report <URL> . <URL> Note that a single oil analysis wo n't tell you much ( unless things are REALLY out of whack ) - it 's the long term stability or trends that matter here , so if you 're going to do an oil analysis be prepared to do them at every oil change from now on ... Do the things that are n't oil-related An oil change is a good opportunity to do some other regular maintenance - Since the cowling is off anyway why not clean/gap/rotate your spark plugs ( which is another mind-numbing task the FARs allow owners with a private pilot certificate to do ) ? In fact since the cowling is apart and your engine is naked now 's the time to give it a good once over for any loose parts , chafing wires , etc. that might have come up since the last oil change or service that had someone under the cowling . It 's probably also a good opportunity to check all your lights ( interior and exterior ) , and break out the manufacturer 's lubrication chart to see if there are any other things that need to be oiled , greased , cleaned , or sprayed . So what 's all this fuss about metal ? You 've probably noticed above that I 'm really harping on all the ways you can find metal in your oil in this answer . The simple fact is that all engines wear , and eventually they wear out . That wear shows up as microscopic bits of metal relatively harmlessly suspended in the oil ( what the oil analysis picks up ) , but if that wear suddenly accelerates bigger pieces of metal start getting torn off of the moving parts in your engine , and showing up in other places like the oil filter and screen , letting you know something is wrong with your engine , and hopefully letting you know on the ground rather than in the air . I do n't want to give the wrong impression here though : Not every bit of metal that turns up in an oil filter will be a death sentence for the
The general rules for this are in <URL> , Procedures for Handling Airspace Matters . <URL> describes when and how air routes are defined and designated , although it does n't go into much detail about some things . For example , the instructions on when to create a route are fairly general : 20-1-3 . WHEN TO DESIGNATE AIR NAVIGATION ROUTES ATS routes should be designated to serve en route operations when : a . The route is predicated upon NAVAIDs that are suitable for inclusion in the system . b . The benefits of the designation should outweigh any adverse effects to other airspace users , and : 1 . The route is a normal extension of an existing airway ; or 2 . Users will benefit from charted information pertaining to navigational guidance , minimum en route altitudes , and changeover points . Similarly , although there are some clear rules for NAVAID spacing , it does n't tell you why a route would follow certain ones and not others : 20-3-1 . NAVAID SPACING a. VOR Federal airways are based on NAVAIDs which normally are spaced no farther apart than 80 NM . They may be based on more widely spaced NAVAIDs if a usable signal can be provided and frequency protection afforded for the distance required ( see Order 9840.1 , U.S. National Aviation Handbook for the VOR/DME/TACAN Systems ) . The naming convention is in 20-1-5 : 20-1-5 . ROUTE IDENTIFICATION Dual designation of ATS routes must be avoided . All alpha-numeric ATS route identifications must be assigned by Airspace Regulations and ATC Procedures Group as follows : a. Identify ATS routes based on L/MF NAVAIDs by color names ( e.g. Amber , Blue , Green , and Red ) followed by a number designation . 1 . Designate those routes extending east and west as Green or Red . 2 . Designate those extending north and south as Amber or Blue . b. Identify ATS routes based on VOR NAVAIDs as follows : 1 . Route lettering must be as follows : ( a ) The letter " V " will prefix low altitude ATS routes below FL 180 . ( b ) The letter " J " will prefix high altitude ATS routes at FL 180 through FL 450 . 2 . Route numbering must be as follows : ( a ) Assign even numbers for those ATS routes extending east and west . ( b ) Assign odd numbers for those ATS routes extending north and south . c. Identify advanced RNAV ATS routes as follows : 1 . The letter " T " will prefix low altitude RNAV ATS routes below FL 180 , and the letter " Q " for RNAV routes FL 180 and above . 2 . Route numbering must follow the guidelines detailed in paragraph 20-1-5 . b. 1 . ( a ) and b. 2 . d. Route segments must be listed from West to East for even numbered ATS routes , or South to North for odd numbered routes . Many airways do n't follow that numbering convention exactly , at least on certain segments . For example , V67 is more or less <URL> although overall it 's mostly north-south ( from ENL to GQO ) . I assume that as the number of routes increased , they became longer and less consistent , possibly to avoid creating too many total routes : it looks like the lower-numbered routes are often more ' correct ' than higher-numbered ones . But just like with a road , even if it 's clear why the road exists ( I can see that people want to drive from A to B ) it may not be clear why it follows the exact route it does ( why does the road go north of that hill and not south of it ? ) . All those ' small ' decisions were made by the person who designed the route and there 's probably no way to know them all .
The short answer is , it depends . The FAA Airplane Flying Handbook merely states that this can be performed once the aircraft has established positive climb , but does not specify exactly when . Ultimately two situations arise : The airplane is sufficiently large/high performance that normal operating procedures specify the use of flaps for all takeoff scenarios , in which case the manufacturer or the operator ( if applicable ) may well specify a flap retraction schedule , which seeks to allow the aircraft to accelerate effectively during climb out , avoid overstressing the flaps by having the aircraft fly past the maximum speed for each flap setting , while at the same time maintain a comfortable margin above stall speed . The airplane only requires flaps for certain kinds of takeoffs such as maximum performance or soft-field efforts . In that case , procedures may be somewhat looser in defining the exact moment of flap retraction . A climb checklist , should you choose to use one , will likely mention the flap configuration as an action/verification item , so that would likely be a good moment to retract them if you have n't done so already . Personally , I usually retract them passing thru 200-300 feet AGL , which usually coincides to the aircraft being at least half-way between clean configuration Vx and Vy ( I 've been mostly flying Skyhawks , Skylanes , Arrows , and Huskies ) . Whichever way you do it though , you want to avoid retracting them too low and too slow , but also forgetting about them and blowing through Vfe ( which even light , slow airplanes can do quite handily ) . With respect to the actual changes in aircraft behavior the changes , you 'll likely notice the following things : A slight-nose down moment as wing 's characteristics change , which influences the airflow reaching your horizontal stabilizer . The converse applies when extending flaps . Mind you , this is an airplane model-specific thing and one that seemed most noticeable to me in the Cessna family of light singles . Fort he same power setting and pitch attitude , the aircraft will begin to accelerate quicker for each notch of flap retraction . Climb rate is trickier as it is dependent on you power setting , airspeed , and pitch angle ; your inputs will matter . However , generally speaking , the reduction in drag would lead to a greater difference between power available ( or power set ) and power required , so , all things being equal , you would likely see an increase in climb rate .
In the specific case of a flight service receive-only frequency you will be able to hear other aircraft transmitting in that frequency ( you still listen to your com radio , so treat the transmitting part just like any other transmission and wait for a break before you key the mic ) . In the more general case when you have one controller ( or Flight Service Specialist ) working multiple frequencies you call in when the one you 're transmitting on is quiet ( and in the case where you 're receiving Flight Service over a VOR wait for that to be quiet too ) . The controller or FSS will answer you if they 're free . If they 're busy on another frequency or a landline they 'll respond with " Aircraft calling , stand by " ( or if they 're really busy and do n't hear you you wo n't get a response and you 'll try again in a minute ) . It 's not a perfect system , but it works pretty well most of the time .
From the <URL> : CONTAMINATED RUNWAY − A runway is considered contaminated whenever standing water , ice , snow , slush , frost in any form , heavy rubber , or other substances are present . A runway is contaminated with respect to rubber deposits or other friction-degrading substances when the average friction value for any 500-foot segment of the runway within the ALD fails below the recommended minimum friction level and the average friction value in the adjacent 500-foot segments falls below the maintenance planning friction level . ( See also <URL> Thanks to <URL> . So this covers rubber and oil , but not debris . However , from searching the glossary there are no instances of the word " debris " in the document . Usually if debris or oil were noticed on a runway , ATC would close the runway ( issue a NOTAM ) and then use an alternate runway until the debris or oil were cleaned up . From a pilots perspective , if you notice debris on the runway just tell ATC ( provided you did n't hit it ) , and they will close the runway for a FOD ( foreign object debris ) check . My local airport does this usually twice a day or more , typically by running a car down the runway looking for debris .
Yes they can . There was an attempt to allow one to pass over a country freely with the <URL> however this is not a blanket thing and not everyone partakes . ... As of the summer of 2007 , 129 countries were parties to this treaty , including such large ones as the United States of America , India , and Australia . However , Brazil , Russia , Indonesia , and China never joined , and Canada left the treaty in 1988 . These large and strategically located non-IASTA-member states prefer to maintain tighter control over foreign airlines ' overflight of their airspace , and negotiate transit agreements with other countries on a case-by-case basis. :23 Since the end of the Cold War , first freedom rights are almost completely universal. :151 Most countries require prior notification before an overflight , and may charge substantial fees for the privilege ( <URL> )
OK , I sat on my hands for a while , so now I 'll stick my head in the lion 's mouth . You should absolutely sump your tanks every time you go flying as part of a routine preflight inspection , whether you 've taken on fuel or not , whether the aircraft has been hangared or out on the ramp , and even if it 's below freezing . Water is n't the only thing you 're looking for ( misfueling happens - also bits of fuel tank sealant , rubber from a rotting bladder , dirt that made it past the fueling truck 's filters , etc. - you want to find these things ! ) Ideally if it 's below freezing you should also pre-heat your aircraft so the <URL> , instruments , and fuel are above freezing when you 're preflighting ( which is generally accomplished by sticking the plane in a heated hangar ) , but sometimes that 's not an option and you make do . Why should you sump the tanks if it 's below freezing ? Well like I said above , water is n't the only thing we 're looking for - and all those concerns still hold valid no matter what the temperature is . Water is the one that people seem to come up with as a reason for not sumping when it 's below freezing though , so let 's talk about water : There are five general ways water can manifest itself in your ( Avgas ) fuel system : Liquid Water If it 's not been below freezing ( or it 's really sunny and your fuel tanks have acted like an oven ) water may be liquid , waiting for you at the sump drain just like on a warm summer day . You 'll drain it out and go on about your business . Slush ( ice crystals suspended in the fuel ) If it 's below freezing you may have suspended ice crystals or slush in the fuel ( particularly if you just took on fuel ) . This will look " cloudy " when you drain it from the sump and it 's a good indication that today is not a good day to fly : you may have a LOT of water in the fuel , and you need to need to deal with it ( warm the plane up and drain off the water , and figure out how so much of it got in there in the first place ) . ( There is a chance that slush could jam your fuel drain open , in which case your fuel tank will empty itself onto the ramp with great rapidity . ) Little bits of ice Little drops of water can freeze into little bits of ice , which are often just too big to come out of the fuel sump drain , but just small enough to lodge in it and keep it from closing ( which , again , will cause your tank to empty itself onto the ramp with great rapidity . This is also an indication that today is not a good day to fly ) . BIG bits of ice over the sump drain Liquid water will flow to the lowest point in the fuel system ( the drains ) . If it 's below freezing it will freeze there , potentially blocking the sump drain . You 'll notice this condition because the sump valve may feel stiff , your tank may not drain , or it will drain very slowly , possibly with water in the fuel . This is a good indication that you should n't fly until you figure out what the cause of the problem is ( it could be ice , it could be a defective valve , or it could be a bunch of other things , but until you know you want to stay on the ground ) . Hidden Ice ( big bits of ice away from the sump drain ) This is perhaps the most insidious : Ice that 's not near the sump , and does n't block or jam anything . Hopefully you 'll spot this sitting at the bottom of your tank when you look in to check the fuel level ( you do visually check your fuel level , right ? ) , but you probably wo n't notice anything out of the ordinary when you sump the tank . ( There are of course other ways water can hide out in the system besides the fuel tanks , but these are where you 're most likely to find it . ) The most likely " bad thing " to happen to you in any of those scenarios is that your fuel sump will be jammed open by ice . This means you 'll spill a tank 's worth of avgas on the ground , and you 'll have to call your airport 's spill cleanup/emergency number and let them know . That emergency is on the ground , and it may be a little embarrassing to have to explain to the spill cleanup folks , but it 's better than the other possibilities . The Bad Things that can happen to you in the air if you go flying with undetected ice/water in the fuel are far worse : The ice could melt and your engine could start trying to burn water , which does n't ignite very well . <URL> for one example of how things can go catastrophically wrong if you neglect to sump your tanks ( or ignore the warning signs when you do ) .
The <URL> seems to be that no one knows for sure , but the most likely explanation is that before class A existed there was Positive Control Airspace ( PCA ) that started at FL240 , and DME was a requirement in PCA . The main reasons for requiring DME were : There 's a limited number of <URL> so it is n't easy to use cross-radials from other VORs for fixes or position reporting ; DME is a simple alternative If there 's no radar coverage then ATC can still manage lateral separation effectively using DME That all seems plausible enough , but some sources out there say that PCA started at FL180 , not FL240 , e.g. this <URL> : [ VFR on top ] was a principle [ sic ] factor in the <URL> and led to " Positive Control Airspace " ( PCA ) FL180 and above . Because of the speeds of the aircraft involved , non-radar procedures were unwieldy ( standards called for ten minutes between aircraft ; some 80 miles for a typical jet ) , even with the development of aircraft installed Distance Measuring Equipment ( DME ) and the reduced separation available between DME equipped aircraft ( 20 miles ) . FL240 is also where ATC starts using Mach numbers instead of knots ( ATC orders <URL> ) and the separation minima change ( section 8-4-4 ) . I do n't know if that 's for historical reasons or physical/operational reasons , but it looks to me like FL240 is considered the general starting point for high-altitude operations ( <URL> requires a high-altitude endorsement for aircraft that can operate above 25,000 ' MSL ) .
It 's a little complex , but here is a shot . Take a look at the following graph : <URL> What you can see is multiple airspeeds . For a plane , the rate of cruise is maximised around Airspeed B is reached - this is when the difference between power available and power required is the greatest and therefore the most excess energy is available for climb . The slope here indicates how much power is necessary for that airspeed - the steeper the curve , the worse it is . The value is really high for airspeeds all the way to left . If you were to deploy the flaps , you would sort-of shift the power required curve to left - adding drag , reducing the difference between the power available and power required , reducing the maximum rate and in the process increasing the power necessary . <URL> In the equation above , you want to increase lift . Yes , you can do this with flaps - it would increase CL . As you yourself state , it takes a lot of drag to use flaps and slats . Another option is to increase velocity . This is more efficient and uses less energy . The reason we need is flaps is since as the velocity drops for landing , we need to increase the CL to maintain sufficient lift for landing . Airspeed for B for landing though is much too fast , so you want to slow down to the left side of the graph . See <URL> on a little more detail on this relationship . As for flap limitations , they appear to be 20,000 ft for the Boeing 737 - Mostly because boeing found them unnecessary to use at higher altitude .
I have flown several times to SJC for touch and goes . I have always been on the weekends , and probably in the afternoons . It is a lot of fun , especially because the runways are so long for a small plane . I think I 've been three times , and each time they have accommodated me on 30L . The wind is almost always favoring the 30 runways , and I do n't remember ever being cleared for 30R . They will occasionally make you circle briefly before entering the C . They will also sometimes make you extend for a pretty long pattern to the SE if they have a big fella cleared for 30R . All the big commercial jets seem to be sent to 30R , and it is small GA jets that use 30L . I have only done touch and goes , as I wanted to get out of the way quickly . But I get the impression that the tower is happy to accommodate as long as they 're not too busy . My instructor told me that they sometimes will say ' no ' if they are busy , especially during the morning push , but I have no experience of that . Have fun ! There 's a beautiful 787 that is often at the terminal , keep an eye out for it !
When related to a significant point , there is no difference between pass and cross . For altitude/FL only pass is used . The phraselogies used by ATC is described in ICAO <URL> ( Air Traffic Management / PANS-ATM ) , chapter 12 , phraseologies . The document explains the meaning for ATC , therefore to be understood and used by pilots . 12.3.1.2 LEVEL CHANGES , REPORTS AND RATES EXPEDITE CLIMB ( or DESCENT ) [ UNTIL PASSING ( level ) ] AFTER PASSING ( significant point ) 12.3.1.4 TRANSFER OF CONTROL AND / OR FREQUENCY CHANGE AT ( or OVER ) ( time or place ) [ or WHEN ] [ PASSING/LEAVING/REACHING ( level ) ] CONTACT ( unit call sign ) ( frequency ) 12.3.1.10 ADDITIONAL REPORTS REPORT PASSING ( significant point ) REPORT PASSING ( three digits ) RADIAL ( name of VOR ) VOR 12.3.2.3 MAINTENANCE OF SPECIFIED LEVELS MAINTAIN ( level ) UNTIL PASSING ( significant point ) MAINTAIN ( level ) UNTIL ( minutes ) AFTER PASSING ( significant point ) 12.3.2.4 SPECIFICATION OF CRUISING LEVELS CROSS ( significant point ) AT ( or ABOVE , or BELOW ) CROSS ( distance ) MILES , ( GNSS or DME ) [ ( direction ) ] OF ( name of DME station ) OR ( distance ) [ ( direction ) ] OF ( significant point ) AT ( or ABOVE or BELOW ) ( level ) 12.3.2.8 SEPARATION INSTRUCTIONS CROSS ( significant point ) AT ( time ) [ OR LATER ( or OR BEFORE ) ] ADVISE IF ABLE TO CROSS ( significant point ) AT ( time or level ) 12.3.3.1 DEPARTURE INSTRUCTIONS AFTER REACHING ( or PASSING ) ( level or significant point ) ( instructions ) 12.3.4.12 TURN OR CLIMB INSTRUCTIONS AFTER TAKE-OFF AFTER PASSING ( level ) ( instructions ) 12.4.2.3 PARALLEL APPROACHES YOU HAVE CROSSED THE LOCALIZER ( or GBAS/SBAS/MLS FINAL APPROACH COURSE ) If another wording is used in some country , the differences must be explained in the country AIP , at section GEN 1.7 . For USA ( <URL> ) , Doc 4444 differences are found at GEN 1.7-23 . There are none related .
If you are asking if a plane can be taken from the gate all the way to the sky by auto-pilot I 'm quite certain the answer is no . Not because a plane ca n't configure itself for take off and power up the engines ( I 'm quite certain it can , though I would defer to more knowledgeable people for that ) . Not for that reason , but rather because there is no system in place to electronically guide an aircraft through a series of taxiways all the way to the base of the runway so that it can line up to take off in the first place . Keep in mind , ATC gives a lot of instructions for ground operations , funnelling aircraft this way and that via taxiway A through Z. They 'd have no way of telling an auto-pilot about these directions , there 's no computer to send out signals and there is no voice recognition build into the plane . If you told the pilots , they would have no way to input the instructions into the autopilot , nor would the autopilot know what to do if it ever received such instructions . It just is n't designed to follow taxiways . Also , beyond just taxiway layout , there are a lot of planes in close proximity on the ground , plus bunches of other important vehicles ( fire trucks , fuel trucks , de-icers , etc. ) Steering around all of those , faultlessly , would be quite the feat . We 've only just gotten to the point where <URL> , I think a plane navigating an airport ( and doing it while minding ATC ) is a bit of a ways off . EDIT : Raidri 's video does a much better job of <URL> and his comment is correct . I did underestimate how good the systems are these days . That being said , I 'm not changing my answer . There still , currently , is no way to convey ATC instructions to the aircraft . As a point of clarification : I saw the question as asking about technology in it 's current state . Will we eventually be able to do this . Heck yes , absolutely . A great deal of the technology is in place and what 's left is either right on the horizon or close to it . FAA clearance will probably take some time , but we 'll get there . I was mainly answer the question from the perspective of modern tech and what is currently ready to be installed on a plane .
I 'm assuming you 're more interested in the base-or-downwind question rather than the where-is-the-2-mile-base question . Theoretically you 're supposed to fly the published procedure unless told otherwise . In this case the procedure would probably be a standard traffic pattern . Being told to ' report ' means only that , you should report it when you 're there . This is not to be confused with the ( in my experience ) more common instruction " Enter and report a 2 mile base for runway 16 " , in which case you head for the base and not the downwind , and you report it when you get there . To argue ad absurdum , the clearance " Cleared touch and go , after the touch and go , make left traffic , report mid-field downwind " does n't mean you should head straight for the downwind . As always , when in doubt , ask .
Either C or D controllers will likely accept your requested heading , which can be given as a rough compass point , on initial contact . This contact will be after picking up the terminal info on ATIS , when you contact ground . Your preferred direction will be passed up the chain . A class D may tell you something like " cleared for takeoff , Northbound departure approved " , in which case I would feel free to turn as soon as I deemed it safe . In a class C scenario , the same thing could happen , but they might vector you around other traffic . In all cases " resume own navigation " will be permission to take your heading . If you are still on runway heading and feel you have not been given a clearance sending you where you want to go , you may contact tower or departure control , depending on whom you are with , and say something like " Tower , Diamond two-eight bravo , request heading zero six zero " They may respond with an " approved as requested " or " heading zero six zero approved " or they may give you instructions to " fly present heading , I 'll call your turn " indicating they are not ready for you to take your heading yet . The short answer is , you can take your heading when you have been cleared to do so . Understanding when you have been cleared is a matter of becoming familiar with standard phraseology . Controllers I have worked with , especially at C and D airspaces have been accommodating . Their job is to send pilots where they want to go while keeping aircraft out of each other 's way . They have rolled along with me when I have changed my mind about landing , I can say " I changed my mind , I 'd rather depart the pattern to the south " but to be brief I 'll say " Cancel landing intention , request south departure . " As airspace gets bigger and controllers are busier ( which can vary by location and even time of day ) brevity becomes increasingly important . To get practice , you can find out when an particular airspace is less busy . Controllers have been known to be chatty when traffic volume is low , and you may even be able to ask questions about preferred phraseology .
AOPA has <URL> on exactly this question ( written by an attorney ) . Their advice is basically that it 's a judgement call on your part and one that you should think about carefully . Not calling may antagonize the FAA , but calling if it 's a major safety issue may be unwise : That does n't necessarily mean , however , that you should call the telephone number or respond to the FAA 's letter , and blather the most expansive defense you can conjure up . A little judgment is called for here -- and , unfortunately , there are no hard and fast rules . If you think the FAA may be inclined to just admonish you orally or content itself with administrative action , then a humble , cooperative approach may be best . Saying you wo n't talk without a lawyer , when the likely outcome if you do talk is minor , may only prompt the FAA to propose sterner action . Before you talk , however , think carefully about what you want to say , how much to say , what questions the FAA is likely to ask and how you 'll answer them . If , on the other hand , there is a substantial chance the FAA will take certificate action against you or will propose a fine , the best course of action , as I said above , is to hire an attorney . Do n't ignore the FAA ; be polite , but do n't provide more information than the bare outlines of what is already known and obvious to all . State quietly that you understand the FAA 's desire to investigate possible violations , that you take your obligations to fly safely very seriously , and that you will be happy to cooperate . Also say that , unless the FAA is not contemplating action against you , you feel it best to consult a lawyer before proceeding . Since the FAA likely wo n't give you any guarantees , its representative will be the one overreaching if he presses you to respond anyway . Politely decline if he does . I also had a look through the AOPA discussion forums ( members only , so no links ) and my summary of their comments would be : File a <URL> within the 10-day limit , whatever happened If you know what you did wrong and you know it was minor , then make the call If you do n't know what you did wrong then call but be prepared to end the conversation immediately if you have no good response or you realize it 's more serious than you thought If you know you caused a major safety issue ( actual or potential ) then do n't call and get a lawyer instead If you know the person you have to call - e.g. if it 's the tower controller at your home airport - then you should give more weight to calling In general , it 's better to call and have to cut off the conversation than not to call in the first place Whatever you say , keep it short and factual When you find out what you did wrong , get some ground and/or flight training from an instructor to address that specific issue and have him endorse it in your logbook ; this shows the FAA that you 've taken the issue seriously and you 've actively taken steps to make sure you wo n't do it again
First you need a wing that is representative of a flightworthy article . Next , you need to collect the significant load cases . The most obvious one is that of maximum lift , but sometimes wings have failed even when they were strong enough to support the maximum bending moment . Torsion from aileron deflections and flutter are important , as is the in-plane bending moment from lift at high angle of attack . Normally , the wing is <URL> and computer-controlled hydraulic jacks are used to pull on it , but this can be made much simpler . Below you see the ultimate strength test on the <URL> wing : Discarded soda bottles were collected , filled with a pre-calculated amount of water and hung from the main spar while the center of the inverted wing was lifted up by a forklift . <URL> Load test on Dedalus wing . Yes , the guy with the Dedalus shirt is <URL> . Own work . Besides the maximum strength tests , fatigue tests are of equal importance . Here a statistical load distribution ( frequent low loads , infrequent high loads ) is applied to the wing over thousands of hours . These tests stretch into the early operational phase of a design , such that the structure is cleared for more hours as the test progresses .
No , Tower has final authority over which runway to use . Tower controllers have direct line-of-sight with the runway . Tower has better knowledge about equipment outages , obstacles and other special situations happening on or around the runway . Tower is the one who is granting landing clearances . They have authority to reject planes that are coming in from the wrong direction . The job of Terminal Control is to " pass " the airplane to Tower . From that point onwards , the responsibility of Terminal Control has ended ; Tower will direct the plane until it leaves Tower 's responsibility ( miss approached / on the ground ) . For example , a pilot can approach an airport with an published instrument approach , then circle to land on a different runway . The runway is located at the airport . Therefore the responsibility lies with whoever has control at the airport , not the surrounding airspace . The airspace directly at the airport belongs to Tower , not Terminal Control . Your concern of conflicting traffic is , to a certain extend , invalid , because they have been addressed by the airport designers . See , for example , the approach for VMMC : <URL> The approach begins from the South or South West . An approach from the East would have conflicted 07 approaches for VHHH . Missed approach requires a climb to at least 5,500 feet . That keeps the plane separated vertically from departing or arriving traffic at the West of VHHH . For reference , 07R approach for VHHH : <URL> You can find similar cases for airports like KLAX , KJFK and EGLL .
end question
start question
Is there a light civilian helicopter capable of a 250 NM trip without refueling ?
I would need a definition of the word ' light ' as it is a little relative . Most light turbine helicopters eg a <URL> or a <URL> will do this job just fine . It is a little difficult to locate a reciprocating engine powered helo that meets those criteria . The <URL> and the <URL> would be my choices for that but cost over $ 300,000 a piece . The <URL> would be another good choice . It is a light turbine helicopter and <URL> , though you may be required to put another 100,000 USD or so into it .
Thread In your <URL> question , I wrote that a great circle is like a taut thread on a ball . If you have a tactile ( Braille ) globe , get two pins and a thread . Place the pins on the departure and arrival cities , and wrap the thread around the pins so that the thread is taut . You can then follow along with your finger . Coordinates Another method is to go to <URL> website . Enter the departure and arrival airports ICAO codes ( you can get them from Wikipedia ) . And plot the flight plan . The generated flight plan will be close enough to a great circle . The waypoints will be listed by their latitude and longitude . The distance and track ( heading ) for each leg will also be listed .
<URL> means data read on the basic instruments . Not-raw data means enhanced information built from raw data and/or flight management system . <URL> bars are not raw data , but a computation from basic air data , desired airspeed , roll angle limit , etc. . At the next higher level , the <URL> can use the FD data to fly the aircraft . Similarly desired speed can be determined automatically and thrust can be managed by the <URL> . Taking off and climbing with FD , auto-throttle and autopilot <URL> Takeoff with FD and AP , just after liftoff ( A320 simulator ) . Source : <URL> The green bars of the FD shows what should be the attitude of the aircraft , SRS ( <URL> ) guidance law has been used to determine the desired 165 kt speed . The pilot may fly the aircraft manually using these non-raw data . In the present case the pilot has also activated another layer of assistance : Autopilot and auto-throttle . The AP follows the FD indications , and the thrust is managed by the auto-throttle so that the desired speed is achieved safely as soon as possible . The indication in the <URL> means autopilot , flight director and auto-throttle are currently selected / active . T/O with raw data Flying with raw data implies not using the FD or the SRS mode , nor the AP other modes or the auto-throttle . The crew must determine the attitude to be used after the T/O rotation , and during the climb . They also need to manage the thrust required . For example , the roll angle has to be determined manually , depending on all factors discussed above and the desired horizontal track . <URL> Takeoff without FD ( A320 ) . Source : <URL> Benefits Not using computer assistance helps maintaining and developing pilot skills and prevents dependency on automation that can always <URL> . The correct attitude , speed and thrust depend on many limits -- some are displayed in the <URL> band and the <URL> when they have video displays -- that the pilots must have in mind . So it 's usual that pilots perform manual take-offs and landings and raw-data operations . The frequency of such permanent training may be influenced by the <URL> ( standard operating procedures , SOP ) which can either encourage or discourage crews to use the airplane automatic features at certain phases of the flight . On modern aircraft there are some mechanisms ca n't be inactivated as the direct transmission between controls and corresponding actuators have been replaced , partially or totally , by <URL> . The conversion between actual pilot movements and electrical command signals is subject to some level of filtering provided by the fly-by-wire system . Other raw data operations <URL> . Raw data navigation . This post consistently uses Airbus-based explanations , as terminology varies between aircraft manufacturers ( but principles are mostly the same for this topic ) .
You can download Google Earth airspace files for most countries , and move through them in 3D to explore what they would look like for various areas . For example , you could see where you would be " under " a Class B shelf , or where you might navigate to avoid B/C/D airspace and " surface airport E airspace " ( if you 're flying an ultralight , for example ) . These files can be downloaded from <URL> Here is a screenshot I just captured of the Seattle Class B , looking northwest from the southeast corner . <URL>
Currently there is no rotary wing craft capable of supersonic flight . Combined with the forward motion through the air , the rotating blades attack the air on one side and retreat backwards on the other . As the aircraft moves faster this poses 2 problems : The retreating blade has a point of zero air speed , starting from the axis at hover and moving to the tip with forward speed , an effect known as <URL> . Eventually a large portion of the blade has negative airflow ( backwards to what it had when hovering ) causing loss of lift control on that side ( there may still be lift , but the pitch of the blade has little influence ) . The craft will roll ( and I believe gyro forces will bring the pitch up , and the craft will recover ) The advancing blade will go supersonic , starting from the tip . Aerodynamics change . There are ideas of new blade actuators that can change the blade for 1 ) reverse airspeed and 2 ) supersonic aerodynamics . As you have noticed , nothing has panned out so far ...
Mass does n't affect the maximum distance , only the maximum endurance . For example , image two identical planes A and B : A weights 50kg less than B. Assuming no wind ( horizontal / vertical ) and speed of best glide , both gliders will land at the exact same spot . The lighter airplane A however will arrive later than B , as the speed of best glide is less than for B . In conclusion you can say , that additional mass only increases cruise speed , but not the travel distance . Glider competitions are most of the time a route you have to fly in the shortest time possible . So that means , if you have a higher speed of best glide , you can fly faster in competitions . The only downside to having a higher weight is , that your liftrate in thermals will be decreased and due to the higher speed it is harder to center the thermals . It is to some extend also possible to shift the Centre of Gravity ( CG ) with the added load . The further it is to the aft limit , the higher your maximum distance is . This is because you will have less down-force from the stabilizer required . ( If the CG is at the front limit , you will need to pull the control stick in order to fly level , therefore you have more drag ) . However I think this is rather a positive side effect and most of the time the water is used for flying faster . Source : I am a glider pilot and currently doing my ATPL training .
The answer depends on who you ask . The structural engineer would prefer a single wheel , and as few legs as possible , while the aerodynamicist would vote for 8 or 12 wheels , because then the bogie has less frontal area and can be accommodated even in thin wings . Generally , less than two wheels would compromise redundancy , and more are needed to reduce local ground pressure . Remember that the A-300B was initially not allowed on some US airports because of a slightly higher ground pressure . See <URL> for more . Modern designs use two wheels per strut for redundancy when the aircraft is light enough and replace them with a bogie with as many wheels as necessary to carry higher aircraft masses . The A-340-200 has gained a central strut with two wheels ( A-340-200 / 300 ) rsp . a 4-wheel bogie ( A-340-500 / 600 ) , while the equally large , but lighter A-330 uses just the two 4-wheel main gears without the central gear . Airbus could have used two six-wheel bogies , but preferred to keep commonality with the A-330 gear . More than 6 wheels per bogie is very unusual , but there are exceptions : Since the Tu-144 had no thrust reversers , all braking had to be done by the wheel brakes . Additionally , the bogies needed to fit between the intake ducts inside the nacelles , so the final design used 8 wheels with the large housings of the disc brakes sticking out towards the center of the bogie . Tupolev Tu-144 landing gear ( picture <URL> ) . This particular aircraft is parked in the back yard of the Aviation Institute in Kazan . If you want to know how this 8-wheeled monster would fit inside a supersonic airliner , read the answers to <URL> . Convair experimented with different tire sizes for the <URL> and even a tracked version . The initial single wheel design resulted in the biggest aircraft tire ever produced , but in the end the conventional ( but novel at this time ) 4-wheel bogie was preferred because the single wheel had too much ground pressure for most US airbases . Earlier airplanes had used 2-wheel bogies ( Tupolev TB-3 , Junkers G-38 ) or a pair of wheels left and right of the strut ( Douglas DC-4 ) . XB-36 ( first prototype of the B-36 ) taking off ( picture <URL> ) When Air India ordered their first A320s , they were afraid the main wheel pressure would be too much for some Indian airfields . Airbus produced a version with a four-wheel bogie instead of the usual two-wheel main gear of the regular A320 . When they later ordered the A321 , India seemed to have improved their airfields , because the newer planes use the regular two-wheel gear which is mechanically simpler and needs less maintenance . <URL> Air India A320 ( picture <URL> )
<URL> contains recommended crew member procedures and training for combating in-flight fires . It has information about causes , indications and procedures of in-flight fire fighting . According to the AC , Upon discovering a fire , the initial focus should be on aggressively extinguishing the fire with a readily available extinguisher ( which will likely be halon ) , but do not use water if it is believed the fire is of aircraft electrical system origin . Generally , you should consider using the first available extinguisher rather than delaying your firefighting efforts while you locate a particular extinguishing agent for a class A , B , or C fire . Airbus <URL> also says pretty much the same thing : Any fire , no matter how small , may rapidly become out of control , if not dealt with quickly.The first priority will always be to put it out . Coming to the Galaxy Note 7 issue , the AC says , h . What are the Recommended Procedures for Fighting a Lithium Battery Fire ? The following procedures are recommended for fighting a fire in a lithium-type-battery-powered PED . The procedures consist of two phases : extinguishing the fire , and cooling the remaining cells to stop thermal runaway . ( 1 ) Utilize a halon , halon replacement , or water extinguisher to extinguish the fire and prevent its spread to additional flammable materials . ( 2 ) After extinguishing the fire , douse the device with water , an aqueous-based extinguishing agent , or other nonalcoholic liquids to cool the device and prevent additional battery cells from reaching thermal runaway . Though the standard procedures in case of a fire has to be decided by the company , the FAA recommends some procedures to be followed , like : • Be aggressive ; if flames are visible , fight the fire immediately . • Someone must immediately notify the flight crew to describe the fire , smoke , smells , action being taken , etc. . • If flames are not visible , find the base or source of the smoke . • Pull circuit breakers , in applicable area . • Do not reset circuit breakers , unless instructed by flight crew . • Relocate passengers as necessary . • Locate hot spots using the back of your hand . • Don PBE ( not necessarily in this order ) . The flight crew ( who are supposed to don their oxygen masks on indication of smoke/fire ) are supposed to inform the ATC and plan for an emergency landing , if necessary .
Simple answer ... No . You could rule out the types of planes that could land at an airport by an <URL> but there is nothing specific .
None . While a number of aircraft are certified for autoland with automatic rollout until safe taxi speed , and some can have the autopilot control rollout until the aircraft completely stops , no commercial aircraft has autopilot control of various critical parts for landing such as the flaps and the landing gear .
Yes , it is possible . The shockless transition from supersonic to subsonic . It has been tested both experimentally and numerical solution . Read <URL> . But in your case I would suggest you to be a bit cautious and recheck your mesh and boundary condition in CFD solver .
Jessica Cox explains it herself in this video : <URL> She 's using her legs in place of hands ( I.e , using her feet to manipulate the controls , throttle etc ) and she specifically flies an Ercoupe which has no rudder pedals .
Very rarely will a manual directly be used by flight crew for calculation of fuel uplift . Flight crews generally receive an Operational Flight Plan prepared by the operator ( the airline ) , or an agent of the operator , where calculations have been made for how much fuel will be required for the specific flight , and necessary reserves . Flight crew may elect to revise the fuel required to provide additional margin for weather , traffic or other factors . The calculations made for the Operational Flight Plan are made with flight planning software , which in its turn uses data from performance manuals/data sets , and takes a large amount of parameters into account ( routing ( duh ! ) , wind , flight altitude , speed , aircraft weight , load distribution ( c.g. ) , alternate airport availability etc ) . Flight crew can however make simplified fuel calculations using the FPPM for the aircraft type ( Flight Performance and Planning Manual ) ( Boeing ) . The flight profile is however generally quite limited to a few climb/cruise/descent schedules , and the data is not what would be used on a normal line day . Distribution of FPPM ( and other manuals ) is generally restricted . If you however would come across a replica of a FPPM , you could probably make a usable fuel calculation using the instructions within it .
Helicopters are able to do something called <URL> if all thrust is lost . In a helicopter , an autorotative descent is a power-off maneuver in which the engine is disengaged from the main rotor system and the rotor blades are driven solely by the upward flow of air through the rotor . In other words , the engine is no longer supplying power to the main rotor . ( Look in particular at the direction of flight arrows . Remember there 's a lift vector coming of the blades as well in both cases . ) Basically , the collective is decreased immediately when thrust is lost for whatever reason . This allows the airflow coming through the blades to push them around , like a reverse windmill in a way , keeping the blades spinning . This also generates lift , keeping the helicopter generating some lift ( while descending of course ) . At the instant of engine failure , the main rotor blades are producing lift and thrust from their angle of attack ( AOA ) and velocity . By lowering the collective pitch , which must be done immediately in case of an engine failure , lift and drag are reduced , and the helicopter begins an immediate descent , thus producing an upward flow of air through the rotor system . This upward flow of air through the rotor provides sufficient thrust to maintain rotor rpm throughout the descent . Since the tail rotor is driven by the main rotor transmission during autorotation , heading control is maintained with the antitorque pedals as in normal flight . Once the helicopter reaches ground , the pilot will pull up . Since the blades were spinning a bit faster than needed for a hover since he was flying forward the whole procedure , he simply pulls up and levels out carefully close to the ground until the helicopter touches down . This being said , you have to be careful , since if you 're flying to slow you ca n't pull it off . When landing from an autorotation , the only energy available to arrest the descent rate and ensure a soft landing is the kinetic energy stored in the rotor blades . Tip weights can greatly increase this stored energy . A greater amount of rotor energy is required to stop a helicopter with a high rate of descent than is required to stop a helicopter that is descending more slowly . Therefore , autorotative descents at very low or very high airspeeds are more critical than those performed at the minimum rate of descent airspeed . This dangerous conditions are shown in a height-velocity diagram as is seen below , in this case apparently <URL> . <URL> Here 's a little video to get an idea of how it looks for the pilot : Autorotation is often time critical and has to be done right as there 's only one shot and as such is practised by pilots on a regular basis . All extracts in this section are from <URL> by the FAA , an excellent and very extensive publication on the topic .
Not feasible . A start of each engine can take 30-60 seconds or longer and would require the APU ( noisy ) . In some airplanes you lose the packs during start so you would impact pressurization . Additionally many engines have a required time at idle after start before significant thrust is applied . Lastly , with all engines offline , the airplane will be in some sort of essential power mode and many systems will be offline or unavailable . You might then ask that we land at idle but that can present issues with spool up time before thrust is available . One of the primary reason we land with a high flap setting is so that we have the drag to maintain approach speeds with the engines spooled up . This gives us near immediate power if we need it to go around . I 'm sure someone else can provide historical data from when idle approaches in jets were normal and specifics into why we do n't do this today .
Near as I know , the answer to the first question is no . The aircraft requires that a tail stand be fitted to it when the gun , magazine and electromechanical drive mechanism is removed for maintenance . Operation of the A-10 without the gun would exceed the weight and balance envelope for the aircraft , making flight , as well as ground operations hazardous . The A-10 has been proposed for use as a converted water bomber to fight forest fires but this balance problem without a counterweight installed in this region would make this very difficult . <URL> If one was going to remove the gun for a ferry flight , it would have to be fitted with some kind of counterweight in its place , which would defeat the original purpose of removing the gun .
In a conventional helicopter the lift generated by the rotor is controlled by the collective pitch . Raising the collective pitch increases the Angle of Attack of the the rotor blades and consequently the lift , and inevitably increases drag . The drag is overcome by increasing the torque from the engine . Vertical movement is achieved by balancing the collective pitch against the torque while maintaining a relatively constant rotor speed . The torque from the engine pushing the rotor one way results in a tendency of the fuselage to rotate in the opposite direction . This is conventionally countered by a tail rotor or other similar device , and varying the force generated by this rotor controls the yaw . So far , so good . In a helicopter with coaxial rotors there is no tail rotor , but the torque issue remains . Here , it 's resolved by applying equal but opposite torque to each rotor . Lift overall is controlled by changing the Angle of Attack of both rotors . If the same inputs are applied to both rotors then the torque remains balanced . However , the Angle of Attack of one rotor can be increased while that Angle of Attack of the second is decreased , leaving lift overall unchanged . This will increase the drag on the first rotor , and hence the torque required to maintain rotor speed . Simultaneously , the lift , drag and torque on the second rotor has been reduced , producing an imbalance in the direction of torque between the two rotors , and a consequent yaw moment around the axis of rotation . All this can be achieved without a significant change in rotor speed . In fact , the exact rotor speed does n't play a part in yaw control .
Airway data is published in each country by their respective regulatory authority . This is published as a part of AIP ( Aeronautical Information Publication ) . This <URL> contains links to some of the sites having electronic AIPs . The relevant data can be found in Part 2 - Enroute ( ENR ) . For example , <URL> gives the details for UK airways . I do n't think there is a worldwide list as the airways of each country is controlled by the respective government through regulatory body and this information is updated periodically ( in cycles of 28 or 56 days ) .
Feathering The collective pitch control , or collective lever , is normally located on the left side of the pilot 's seat with an adjustable friction control to prevent inadvertent movement . The collective changes the pitch angle of all the main rotor blades collectively ( i.e. , all at the same time ) and independent of their position . That 's what you referred to as feathering , notice it says " independent of their position " . It 's for collectively increasing or decreasing of the lift on all blades -- the engine will keep the RPM constant . Using the collective in level flight would cause a climb or descent , while with the helicopter pitched forward an increase in total lift would produce an acceleration together with a given amount of ascent . -- <URL> Flapping Flapping is position dependent as <URL> . Flapping is not pilot controlled . It 's to counter the <URL> .
Short Answer No , it does not have a back-up , there are some fail-safe components in the system ( see below ) , but in general the system itself is not duplicated . The system , together with a design that avoid ignition sources within the tanks , is just a part that contributes to prevent fuel tanks to ignite . An <URL> for commercial planes have been considered since <URL> and first regulation arrived in may 2006 . Longe Answer The certification CS25 .981 Fuel tank ignition prevention states : ( a ) No ignition source may be present at each point in the fuel tank or fuel tank system where catastrophic failure could occur due to ignition of fuel or vapors . ( c ) Design precautions must be taken to achieve conditions within the fuel tanks which reduce the likelihood of flammable vapors . So the function that should be achieved is prevent tank ignition and there are two fronts two work on , avoid ignition source , and reduce fuel vapors ( similar to the two slices of cheese that rbp was mentioning in the comments ) . So the fuel ignition system is a system designed to avoid fuel vapors . As can be seen in the image below , within the systems there are some redundancies ( e.g. : Dual Flow Shut Off Valve ) , but the system itself is not duplicated . Moreover the system is not on the Minimum Equipment List ( MEL ) , so the aircraft can still be dispatched with the system inoperative for 10 days . <URL>
end question
start question
During an engine failure should I deploy 10 ° of flap or keep it clean ?
You keep it clean : adding flaps adds drag . You can see this in Section 3 of the Cessna POH , which includes a Maximum Glide ( distance ) diagram . In the C172S POH that I checked , it notes that maximum distance is achieved with : SPEED 68 KIAS PROPELLER WINDMILLING FLAPS UP ZERO WIND ( A tailwind would extend your range , but only in one direction . ) Two other points worth noting : If the engine failure also caused an electrical failure then you wo n't be able to use the flaps anyway ( in models with electrically operated flaps ) You might want to reduce your gliding distance if the best landing spot is relatively close by , and extending flaps is one way to do that ( along with slipping , S-turns or other maneuvers , and extending the gear )
Depending on what type of headset you wear , you may not need to worry . I wear a set of David Clark H10-13 .4 's , which have quite a bit of lateral clamping force on the sides of the head ( unlike , for example , the Bose A20 and clones , which rest mostly on top of the head and have much less inward force around the ears ) . I found that I was able to comfortably do all the basic maneuvers ( loops , rolls , spins , hammerheads ) as well as sustained inverted , negative 1G flight , without ever feeling like my glasses were in danger of leaving my face . Without knowing more about your headset and the type of maneuvers you were doing ( Mine were nowhere near what you 'd call extreme ) I ca n't be more specific , but you might be good to go just as you are .
I am not a glider pilot , but the principle holds for flying any fixed wing aircraft1 : you should keep your head level with the aircraft , as you described , not the horizon . As your instructor explained , there may come -- or will come -- a time when you are not able to keep your head level with the horizon due to the nature of a particular maneuver or orientation , and that is a practical matter to consider . It is certainly difficult to incline one 's head 60 ° to the side in a steep turn . From my perspective , however , the more important reason is that your frame of reference needs to be the aircraft . You are used to viewing the world with the ground as your frame of reference ; down is down , up is up . As you learn to fly , however , you need to learn a new way to view three dimensional space , or -- more specifically -- the way you move through that space in the aircraft . It might sound cheesy , but you really need to learn to become one with the aircraft and hold the same perspective regardless of the aircraft 's orientation . Now , that being said , as you gain experience and develop your skills , you may come to realize that this perspective shift does not always require that your head remain rigidly perpendicular to your shoulders . Rather , it is a matter of perception which will eventually be independent of how your head is oriented relative to the aircraft . At my first flying job I spent much of my time in maneuvering flight and my head was rarely still -- much less level with the aircraft . I spent a great deal of time with my head on a swivel , looking up and down , side to side , craning forward to clear into a turn , looking back into the cockpit , etc. . At this stage in your training , however , it is probably important to train to keep your head straight within the aircraft ; certainly follow your instructor 's instructions , and you should do well . 1This probably holds true for rotorcraft as well , or any aircraft for that matter . I am only sharing what I am familiar with .
The " Degrees " of flap deployment generally refers to the deflection from the neutral ( 0 ° - flush with the rest of the wing ) position of the flaps . For most GA aircraft this is an actual angular measurement - 10 ° of flaps corresponds to the flaps lowering 10 ° from their neutral position , but the degree of travel can also be given as a percentage ( 0-100 % ) . The aircraft 's maintenance manual will specify the actual travel ( and specify how it is to be measured ) , and if specific position detents are provided there will usually be " rigging limits " specified for where each position stop must be &amp; how accurate the control position must be at each stop .
All your plane 's systems are happier when you 're flying , including the pilot . Ideally you 'd fly often in order to keep your engine happy ( distributing clean oil throughout the system to protect against corrosion , and heating it enough to drive off water from the crank case ) . As a rule of thumb <URL> . Their threshold used to be 10 hours , so I personally try to fly at least 10 hours a month much when practical , but 5 at a minimum . Blackstone has a LOT of data on aircraft engine wear patterns accumulated , and I generally trust their insight in this regard ( after all they 're not trying to sell me an engine , just asking me to pay them to play with my used oil ) . When weather or other factors mean you ca n't fly enough to keep your engine " active " you can preserve it in accordance with the manufacturer 's instructions , but let 's be honest , most of us are n't going to " pickle " our engines for the winter . It 's a LOT of work , and it means you ca n't go fly on those nice winter days we sometimes get . In situations like this it may be beneficial to ground-run your engine ( say at least on a monthly basis ) just to keep things lubricated and happy . Ground runs at a little below runup power or a fast idle are usually the order of the day here . Taxiing around is also probably a good idea , if practical , to keep your wheel bearings and related components moving -- maybe take your plane down to the runup pad and back . When doing the ground run you want to observe a few guidelines to make sure what you 're doing is actually beneficial to the engine : Make sure you 've got clean oil in the plane ! Any time you think the plane is going to be inactive you want to have good , clean oil in the engine ( and you want to have done a thorough ground run or flight to spread that clean oil everywhere ) . This gives you optimal protection against corrosion . Treat it like a flight . Preflight the plane like you 're taking it up , even if you 're not . You may not be flying much because of the weather , so there 's a real chance your plane 's systems will be in less-than-excellent shape . That thorough walk-around may catch a potentially expensive problem before it becomes a real issue . <URL> Hand-in-hand with treating it like a real flight , you want to make sure you 're not abusing your engine in the name of protecting it . Get the engine oil to normal operating temperature . Part of the point of the ground run is to drive off water that has condensed in your oil -- oil is good for metal parts , and water is bad for them . If you do n't get the engine oil up to normal middle-of-the-green-arc temperatures and keep it there for a good while ( 20-30 minutes at least ) you may not be driving out the water , which can lead to a very unhappy engine . If you do n't get the oil up to operating temperature long enough you may wind up doing more harm than good ! Combustion blow-by leaking around the piston rings contains water ( and a bunch of other corrosive things your engine does n't like ) , and really short ground runs that do n't bring the engine to temperature are mainly just causing wear from the startup and dumping these nasty things into your oil . Your engine is not going to like that . Run long enough to recharge your battery . Watch your ammeter / load meter after startup , and make sure that your battery has been replenished before you shut down . This means running your engine at a high enough RPM that the charging system can charge the battery ( a fast idle is usually fine ) , and long enough that the battery can be charged ( which is n't a problem , because if you were paying attention to # 4 you 've noticed we 'll be running the engine a good while anyway ) . Monitor your cylinder head temperatures . If equipped with CHT probes , make sure you 're not exceeding the CHT limits for your engine during the ground runs . This goes hand in hand with # 7 below . Lean your mixture to avoid fouling your plugs . You should be using less than 65 % of your engine 's max rated power for these ground runs -- in fact you should probably be somewhere around 50-60 % . Rather than running full rich , pull back on the red knob and let the engine burn cleaner ( but keep an eye out for the warning signs of detonation/preignition ) . You probably only want to do this if you 've got Cylinder Head Temperature readouts you trust -- when in doubt you can always run full rich ( for the added cylinder cooling ) and just clean your plugs . Depending on the outside air temperature your ground run may last anywhere from 30 minute to 90 minutes ( I 've not personally had one last longer than that , though it 's theoretically possible I suppose ) -- it all depends on how long # 4 and # 5 above take . A final thought : I use ASL CamGuard in my oil . It goes in with every oil change . <URL> , and there seems to be ample real-world-anecdotal evidence as well as a good amount of actual materials testing research that indicates it 's a pretty decent corrosion inhibitor . I 've not had my plane/engine long enough to know if this treatme
First , a word of caution - Do n't attempt your own oil changes on an aircraft unless you 're familiar with the process , and have both the tools and skills you 'll need to get it done right . It 's probably a good idea to have your mechanic supervise you on your first oil change , and check your work on the next few until you 're sure you 've got the hang of it . This is n't an oil-change how-to - just a list of stuff to look at to judge the general health of an engine . Disclaimers and warnings out of the way , here 's what I look for ( or ask the shop to check ) during an oil change : Draining that dirty old oil First , do n't forget to grab a sample for oil analysis while you 're draining ( I 'll talk about that a little later ! ) . Now , while the oil is running out of the drain you 're really looking for big chunks of metal coming out with it ( or heaven forbid blocking the drain hole ) You also want to make sure there is no nasty <URL> coming out ( that 's a car in the video , but the principle is the much same ) . Basically what 's coming out of the drain should look like oil . It 'll be dirty ( dark to black , rather than the pretty clear-ish liquid you poured into the engine all those hours ago ) , but it should still be flowing nicely . Obviously chunks of metal here would be bad . If you 're noticing them in the drained oil you 've got some serious mechanical damage in your engine and you need a mechanic to check it out . Sludge generally means you need to talk to your mechanic too - often it means a bunch of low-time oil changes to clean out the gunk from the engine , but if it 's severe it could indicate other engine problems that need attention Checking the Oil Screen If your engine has an oil suction screen that can be removed and cleaned ( as on most Lycoming engines ) , remove it and inspect it for any pieces of metal , then clean it and reinstall it . As with chunks in the drained oil , bits of metal in the screen are often a sign of a serious mechanical problem - if you find any you 're going to want to talk to your mechanic . Inspecting the Oil Filter As part of every oil change the filter should be cut open and inspected for fine metallic particles in the pleats . There are a few of ways to do this ( one is to simply stretch the pleats out under a bright light and look at them , another is to wash the filter in a solvent and strain the used solvent through a coffee filter to see if any particles are left behind ) . <URL> If you find any bits of metal in the filter you already know what I 'm going to say -- you 're going to want a mechanic to check things out . A very small amount of metal may not be a serious issue , or it might be the beginnings of an engine on a path to self-destruction . Run an oil analysis Some people do an oil analysis every oil change , some people do n't ever do one . Smarter people than me say it 's probably a good idea to do them , so I consider it to be cheap insurance and a good window into where those " bits of metal " I keep talking about above might eventually start coming from . There are plenty of companies that do aviation oil analysis and for an idea on what 's in the report <URL> . <URL> Note that a single oil analysis wo n't tell you much ( unless things are REALLY out of whack ) - it 's the long term stability or trends that matter here , so if you 're going to do an oil analysis be prepared to do them at every oil change from now on ... Do the things that are n't oil-related An oil change is a good opportunity to do some other regular maintenance - Since the cowling is off anyway why not clean/gap/rotate your spark plugs ( which is another mind-numbing task the FARs allow owners with a private pilot certificate to do ) ? In fact since the cowling is apart and your engine is naked now 's the time to give it a good once over for any loose parts , chafing wires , etc. that might have come up since the last oil change or service that had someone under the cowling . It 's probably also a good opportunity to check all your lights ( interior and exterior ) , and break out the manufacturer 's lubrication chart to see if there are any other things that need to be oiled , greased , cleaned , or sprayed . So what 's all this fuss about metal ? You 've probably noticed above that I 'm really harping on all the ways you can find metal in your oil in this answer . The simple fact is that all engines wear , and eventually they wear out . That wear shows up as microscopic bits of metal relatively harmlessly suspended in the oil ( what the oil analysis picks up ) , but if that wear suddenly accelerates bigger pieces of metal start getting torn off of the moving parts in your engine , and showing up in other places like the oil filter and screen , letting you know something is wrong with your engine , and hopefully letting you know on the ground rather than in the air . I do n't want to give the wrong impression here though : Not every bit of metal that turns up in an oil filter will be a death sentence for the
According to <URL> In aviation , propeller synchronization is a mechanism that automatically synchronizes all propellers of a multi-engine , propeller-driven aircraft so that they rotate at the same speed . As for why its used the article states Propeller synchronization serves mainly to increase the comfort of crew and passengers , since its primary purpose is to reduce the " beats " generated by propellers that are turning at slightly different speeds . As for what happens if you do n't use it , according to the article Synchronization is not normally necessary for proper operation of the aircraft .
FLC mode maintains airspeed during a climb or descent , while VS mode maintains a specific vertical speed . Often air traffic controllers will request that you " maintain 250 knots in the descent " or something to that effect , which is much easier to achieve when using Flight Level Change . As another answer points out , by maintaining airspeed , climbs are made safer as the autopilot will not attempt to maintain a rate of climb regardless of whether or not the airspeed is safe . FLC mode is typically only available in advanced autopilots , and as far as I know they need to connect to an Air Data Computer to get the necessary information . How to use FLC would depend on the equipment available to you : aircraft with auto throttle will maintain speed and an appropriate rate of descent automatically . for aircraft without auto throttle you 'd set your target altitude , enable FLC , adjust your target speed if needed , and set your throttle for climb or descent to maintain the desired altitude change rate . I 'm referencing the Garmin GFC700 as it 's the only autopilot I 've used with FLC mode , but I imagine the same steps and rules would apply .
Bird strike happens all the time - almost on a daily basis . See <URL> : there are 9 instances of bird strike on the past 7 days at the time this answer is written . Usually it is ingested into the engine ( which usually <URL> ) , other times it impacts the cone or leading edge of the wings or knocks off a pitot tube . While a few incident make it to mainstream news from time to time , bird strike is a common occurrence in the aviation industry . It is an unusual situation , but not a dangerous situation if the pilots handle it properly . How severe if it collided with the windshield ? The windshield is <URL> during certification . At worst the outer layers will crack , and the pilot will execute the landing using the " cracked windshield " procedure ( Yes there is a procedure written for this scenario ) . A note about the UFO : technically it is an UFO , an Unidentified Flying Object . It could be a bird , a drone , weather balloon etc. . Examination of the impact area might reveal what the object was .
Apparently , yes , it has -- see <URL> . As the article reports , the issues appeared to be related to the turbocharger , but I 'm not sure how far ( if at all ) accident reports or details go beyond that .
Near as I know , the answer to the first question is no . The aircraft requires that a tail stand be fitted to it when the gun , magazine and electromechanical drive mechanism is removed for maintenance . Operation of the A-10 without the gun would exceed the weight and balance envelope for the aircraft , making flight , as well as ground operations hazardous . The A-10 has been proposed for use as a converted water bomber to fight forest fires but this balance problem without a counterweight installed in this region would make this very difficult . <URL> If one was going to remove the gun for a ferry flight , it would have to be fitted with some kind of counterweight in its place , which would defeat the original purpose of removing the gun .
I go through the SAFETY checklist with all my passengers . <URL> Seat Belts - This is where they are and how to use them . Air Vents - Here are the air vents and how to use them Fire - In case of a fire here is the location of the fire extinguisher and this is how you use it . PASS method . Exits , Emergencies and Equipment - Here are the exits on the airplane and here is how to open the door . Know that you are in good hands and that I have been well trained to land safely under most situations . If for some reason an emergency occurs in flight follow my directions . If we need to land off the airport , I will ask you to pop open the door just before landing to ensure we can exit the airplane safely . Here is any safety equipment that you may want to use on this flight . i.e. supplemental oxygen . Traffic and talking - Please point out an traffic that you see and I will do the same . Please no talking while I am on the radio . Once we start taxiing to the runway please remain quiet til we are far enough away from the airport . I will let you know when it is safe to talk again . When we come in to land , I will ask that you remain quiet , unless an emergency situation occurs , till after the landing is complete and we are taxiing back to parking . Your questions - Do you have any questions ? Alright , lets go have some fun ! <URL>
A <URL> ( MOU ) is n't an aviation term or practice , it 's a general business/legal term for a ' pre-contract ' of some kind . Before two companies commit to a legally binding and perhaps very expensive contract , they 'll often prepare an MOU to make sure that everyone involved has the same understanding of what will be in the contract . That way , there should n't be any big surprises or fundamental disagreements when the real contract is prepared . In the context of aviation , that could be things like how many aircraft will be purchased and when , or what the price is anticipated to be , or anything else that both side consider important . That means that the information in an MOU could be very interesting for other parties ( " can you explain why our competitors are paying you $ 50m less per aircraft than we do ? " ) , so they 're usually confidential . Another common use for MOUs is for PR/Marketing purposes . If two companies are discussing a joint business venture they might come up with an MOU and use it to generate market interest or even raise capital ( " I know we 're a small company but we have an MOU with Boeing to jointly research alternative fuels " ) . Given that background , I do n't think it 's likely that you 'll get any specific answers to your questions . An MOU could include all the things you mentioned but only a real contract is enforceable .
You can not " switch off " a stage of a turbine engine . As seen <URL> jet engines are a single block mechanically locked together : all the stages ( compressor AND turbine ) connected to the same shaft . If the shaft turns , all connected stages turn with it . You can have designs with multiple shafts , but this increases the complexity ( design and maintenance ) heavily . Even if we assume for a moment that you could have 1 shaft per stage , stopping one of these would be generally a bad idea . For acoustic reasons the number of blades on the stationary part of the stage and those on the rotary part must be prime to each other ( example : 37 blades on the stationary side and 39 on the rotary one ) ; this means that when the rotary part stops you can not align all the blades with the stationary ones , creating drag and losses within the engine , thus reducing the efficiency . How would efficiency of a Jet Engine change , if we assume for a second that its a possibility , to stop a few stages ( turn them into free instead of locked ) ? You would still decrease the efficiency : compressor stages are the ones actually <URL> ( you would then produce less thrust * ) and the turbine stages are the ones extracting energy from the exahust . * : you could even risk having the flame going upstream if you stop too many compressor stages and not having enough pressure at the combustion chamber inlet .
Counter-intuitively , <URL> ( see chart on page 1-9 and text on page 1-10 ) is actually , they should be off during the line-up-and-wait phase . When cleared to ... " Line up and wait " -- when entering the departure runway without takeoff clearance , turn on all exterior lights ( except landing lights ) to make your aircraft more conspicuous . Then when takeoff clearance is received , the expectation is that landing lights will be turned on . The best rationale I 've seen for this is so that Tower controllers ( and other aircraft ) have an immediate visual cue that an aircraft " on the numbers " understands that it has been cleared for takeoff , or not . Another FAA document , <URL> ( these are " best practice " recommendations , not requirements ) : Exterior Lighting : o Taxi with taxi light on when moving , off when stopped . o Turn on all exterior lights when crossing any runway . o If cleared to " Line Up and Wait " , turn on all exterior lights except landing lights . o When " Cleared for take-off " , turn on all exterior lights , including landing lights o If you see an aircraft in take-off position on a runway with landing lights ON , that aircraft has most likely received its take-off clearance and will be departing immediately .
Both the MetroJet and GermanWings incidents were deliberate acts of destruction , not accidents in any common understanding of the word , or indeed in the sense defined by the Convention on International Civil Aviation . The <URL> , as it 's also known , defines an accident as : An occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft [ ... ] in which [ ... ] a person is fatally or seriously injured [ ... ] except when the injuries are [ ... ] inflicted by other persons . My emphasis added - see <URL> for the full definition - it 's quite dry but interesting , if you 're interested in that kind of thing . The exceptions it lists are illuminating . Deliberate acts and " incidents " I do think that the definitions in the Annexe are slightly odd . You 'd think that the deliberate destruction of an airliner in flight should be called an incident , but an incident is apparently : An occurrence , other than an accident , [ affecting safety ] . I guess that 's one way of describing a bombing or deliberate crash into terrain ... but then there 's also a Serious incident which is merely : An incident involving circumstances indicating that an accident nearly occurred . [ my emphasis again ] So that would make the GermanWings and MetroJet cases incidents , but not serious incidents ! However : since " Appendix 7 " of the ICAO Accident/Incident Reporting Manual lists " types of incident " , and deliberate acts of destruction are not amongst them , I can only deduce that they are classified as neither incidents nor accidents . I am not sure exactly what the official terminology is for them .
Engine failure is not that common . For a gas turbine engine , a press release by <URL> gives some data as a reference point . In 1995 they quoted various engines as having a dispatch rate of between 99.99 % and 99.89 % . That is only 0.01 to 0.11 % of flights could not depart due to an engine issue . However , that does n't identify in flight failures , best captured by the inflight shut down ( IFSD ) rate . Data on this is difficult to get for specific engines , as the OEMs consider it competitive information , so the best guide is probably as mentioned the ETOPS rating . The ETOPs fleet is <URL> as achieving a shut down rate of less than 0.01 per 1000 engine hours . Another way of defining reliability is the ( repair ) shop visit rate ( SVR ) . Figures given for this ( by GE in the same link as above ) were between 0.085 and 0.231 visits per 1000 flight hours . However , this covers both scheduled and unscheduled maintenance ( i.e. failures ) , so perhaps does n't identify what you want . For piston engines , the answer to this <URL> probably has some useful data . In addition , Continental <URL> in 2014 that they had an IFSD rate of 0.0061 per 1000 flight hours , which they claim is the most reliable piston engine in general aviation . This compares with " less than " 0.01 for gas turbines , so , it seems very similar . It maybe possible to find a better value for the IFSD rate for gas turbines . Given the rate is so low , it really needs to be quoted to more than 2 decimal places , or given per 100,000 flight hours . Ultimately , I would expect the IFSD rate for gas turbines to be lower than for piston engines , due to the huge economic incentive gas turbine manufacturers and the commercial airline industry has increasing reliability for turbofan engines , that does not exist to the same extent , for general aviation piston engines .
When flying over mountains Pilots will have to encounter unpredictable winds , high density altitude , steeply rising terrain and box canyons , mountain waves , rotor clouds , turbulence , and clouds covering high ground . <URL> It is therefore essential to take the below mentioned factors into consideration : ( 1 ) ROUTE PLANNING : When flying over mountains Route Planning is extremely important because a straight line between two points may not always be the best way to go . Therefore , pick a route that avoids the rugged areas and highest peaks where an emergency landing could not be made . It usually takes very little extra time to bypass the most mountainous areas and follow major roads through more populated areas and lower terrain . Do not approach a ridge until you have sufficient altitude to cross with a safety margin . If you encounter too much sink , you must have enough altitude to turn away towards lower terrain . To make that turn as easy as possible , its wise to turn your aircraft to a 45-degree angle to the ridge before you cross . <URL> ( 2 ) THE TERRAIN FACTOR : The rising terrain will often out climb non-turbocharged aircraft . If your aircraft has a service ceiling of 14,500 ft. , that is based on standard atmospheric temperature which is 59 ° F at sea level and decreases an average of 3.5 ° F per thousand feet . If the surface temperature at 5000 ft. is 100 degrees , the density altitude on the ground is about 9,000 ft. When you climb to an indicated altitude of 9,500 feet you have reached the service ceiling of you aircraft . ( 3 ) THE WIND FACTOR : In a light aircraft , it is best to stay on the ground if the winds are greater than 35 miles per hour . Due to the venturi effect , winds will be much greater in the vicinity of mountain passes . Cross passes as high as possible , as downdrafts up to 2,000 feet per minute can occur on the leeward side.When strong winds of 40 to 50 miles per hour are blowing perpendicular to a mountain range , expect mountain waves and strong downdrafts for many miles on the leeward side . ( 4 ) THE CLOUD FACTOR : The combination of rising ground and lowering ceiling can be deadly . Mountains disappear not only in clouds , but also at night . You should not fly over high territory after sunset unless you are at the minimum en route IFR altitude which provides a 2,000 ft. clearance along airways . When flying after dark , closely monitor your altitude and when in a turn , your rate of descent . A mountain checkout flight is all that is required to get started . The checkout will enable you to operate around some pretty impressive terrain : Flatlander Focus : Two good books on the market are The Mountain Flying Bible by Sparky Imeson , and Flying the Mountains : A Training Manual for Flying Single-Engine Aircraft by Fletcher Fairchild Anderson . Reading either one will give you a solid foundation on which to build your skills . Most Importantly - Know Your Aircraft &amp; Its Limitations <URL> ( a ) What distance over the ground does your aircraft cover in a rate-one turn ? ( b ) What 's the distance for a steep turn ? ( c ) What speed and configuration do you use for reduced visibility and for a minimum radius turn ? ( d ) What is the best-angle-of-climb speed ? ( e ) Do you know the manoeuvring speed ( VA ) and understand its application in potentially turbulent conditions ? ( f ) How is your aircraft performance and handling affected by altitude and turbulence ? ( g ) How is performance affected when operating at maximum-all-up-weight ? Needless to say recent practice and currency are vitally important .
This is heavily dependent on the local jurisdictions you plan to operate in and what their laws are . First off you must find out if your desired countries of operation accept foreign certificates . This varies heavily all over the world and can range from full no questions asked acceptance , to you needing to simply take the test again ( in that country ) through any various case you can think of . Second you need to find out what certificate you need . Here in the US to give rides ( and receive compensation for such ) you need a commercial certificate . This looks like it <URL> . Hours . The FAA requires a few more hours than the Canadian certificate will , <URL> Are at least 16 years of age ; and Have logged at least 10 hours of flight time in a glider and that flight time must include at least 20 total glider flights , and Have 2 hours of solo flight time in a glider , and Have passed the FAA written examination ; and Have passed the flight exam with a FAA Examiner . <URL> A minimum of 6 hours of flight training under the direction and supervision of an instructor At least 2 hours of solo flight time , including a minimum of 20 takeoffs and 20 landings Right off the bad Canada requires 4 less hours which , no matter how you spin it will be cheaper ( since you have to pay for less time ) . Here is the US if you are not a citizen you will need to pass an NTSB background check to train . I do not know if Canada has a similar requirement . Travel , assuming you are in the Caribbean already it may be cheaper to travel to Florida ( or the like ) to train then go all the way up to Canada for your training . Edit : According to this document the ECCAA does issue glider ratings <URL> ( a ) The Authority may issue the following ratings for pilots ( i ) Category ratings in the following aircraft : ( a ) Aeroplane ; ( b ) Rotorcraft ; ( c ) Glider ; ( d ) Lighter-than-air ; ( e ) Power lift .
When related to a significant point , there is no difference between pass and cross . For altitude/FL only pass is used . The phraselogies used by ATC is described in ICAO <URL> ( Air Traffic Management / PANS-ATM ) , chapter 12 , phraseologies . The document explains the meaning for ATC , therefore to be understood and used by pilots . 12.3.1.2 LEVEL CHANGES , REPORTS AND RATES EXPEDITE CLIMB ( or DESCENT ) [ UNTIL PASSING ( level ) ] AFTER PASSING ( significant point ) 12.3.1.4 TRANSFER OF CONTROL AND / OR FREQUENCY CHANGE AT ( or OVER ) ( time or place ) [ or WHEN ] [ PASSING/LEAVING/REACHING ( level ) ] CONTACT ( unit call sign ) ( frequency ) 12.3.1.10 ADDITIONAL REPORTS REPORT PASSING ( significant point ) REPORT PASSING ( three digits ) RADIAL ( name of VOR ) VOR 12.3.2.3 MAINTENANCE OF SPECIFIED LEVELS MAINTAIN ( level ) UNTIL PASSING ( significant point ) MAINTAIN ( level ) UNTIL ( minutes ) AFTER PASSING ( significant point ) 12.3.2.4 SPECIFICATION OF CRUISING LEVELS CROSS ( significant point ) AT ( or ABOVE , or BELOW ) CROSS ( distance ) MILES , ( GNSS or DME ) [ ( direction ) ] OF ( name of DME station ) OR ( distance ) [ ( direction ) ] OF ( significant point ) AT ( or ABOVE or BELOW ) ( level ) 12.3.2.8 SEPARATION INSTRUCTIONS CROSS ( significant point ) AT ( time ) [ OR LATER ( or OR BEFORE ) ] ADVISE IF ABLE TO CROSS ( significant point ) AT ( time or level ) 12.3.3.1 DEPARTURE INSTRUCTIONS AFTER REACHING ( or PASSING ) ( level or significant point ) ( instructions ) 12.3.4.12 TURN OR CLIMB INSTRUCTIONS AFTER TAKE-OFF AFTER PASSING ( level ) ( instructions ) 12.4.2.3 PARALLEL APPROACHES YOU HAVE CROSSED THE LOCALIZER ( or GBAS/SBAS/MLS FINAL APPROACH COURSE ) If another wording is used in some country , the differences must be explained in the country AIP , at section GEN 1.7 . For USA ( <URL> ) , Doc 4444 differences are found at GEN 1.7-23 . There are none related .
end question
start question
What 's the possibility of a commercial airplane crashing due to a computer error ?
First ; let 's be honest . No one really knows what the exact probability is . But we do have a design certification system that requires developers to apply various development assurance processes to meet specific safety standards for the design . The primary requirement is covered by <URL> That has a lot of words about identifying potential faults and mitigating the associated hazards . But there are no numbers . As with most rules , the FAA conveniently provides an Advisory Circular to help you show compliance with the rule . In this case , its <URL> . The acceptable standard for critical faults ( those with a potential catastrophic result ) is found at the bottom of para 10 . ( 3 ) Extremely Improbable failure conditions are those having a probability on the order of 1 X 10 ^ -9 or less . So , if the developers do their job to the standard and the standard ( and the methods used to evaluate it ) are accurate the answer to the question is : The probability is less than once in every 1 billion hours of operation . As a point of statistics , that number applies to the cumulative hours of all aircraft of that design .
I would not recommend a telescope for viewing aircraft . As others have pointed out , a telescope that is suitable for astronomy would be incredibly overpowered for viewing aircraft - the aircraft would move out of the viewing frame very quickly , and you would have a difficult time tracking them . I would suggest picking up a <URL> ( the kind of thing bird watchers and hunters use - good ones can be had in the 50 to 100 dollar price range , and excellent ones abound from about $ 100 up ) , or a pair of good binoculars for your plane watching . The zoom factor is far better suited to plane spotting , and either option would be substantially more portable than a full telescope rig . As for advice on a telescope , there is an Astronomy stack exchange site , and while <URL> the Astronomy site 's <URL> might be a good place to ask for advice on picking a telescope . ( I 'm not sure how active their chat room is , but it 's worth a shot ! )
For precisely this reason the <URL> had a fuel tank in the horizontal tail . However , the pilots I spoke with ( Pan Am ) did not understand the purpose and insisted that the tank is empty all the time . The A330 and A340 also have a tail fuel tank , and here its fuel level is automatically controlled . <URL> A330 tank arrangement ( picture <URL> ) . Note the trim tank in the horizontal tail . Shifting the c.g. a little back reduces drag slightly ( <URL> , depending on initial c.g. position ) but also static stability . This is no problem when the FCS adds enough stability , but in case of a system failure you should make sure that the rear tank can be emptied soon . Hand flying an aircraft with relaxed static stability <URL> . The A350 did away with this feature because it was felt that the added complexity would outweigh the benefits .
$ V_1 $ is takeoff decision speed . It is based upon : Runway length Temperature Reduced thrust takeoff Takeoff weight Takeoff flap setting If $ V_1 $ is higher than $ V_R $ , then ( as far as I am aware ) , $ V_1 $ will be adjusted to be the same as $ V_R $ . You have to make the decision to takeoff by the time you rotate , so it does not make much sense to have $ V_1 $ higher than $ V_R $ . $ V_2 $ is takeoff safety speed . During a one engine inop takeoff we would accelerate to and climb at this airspeed to our acceleration height ( a height we could level off at and be safe from obstacles while we further accelerate ) . We also referenced certain flap transitions on takeoff to $ V_2 $ ( e.g. $ V_2 +15 $ - flaps 0 ) To address the rest of the question , $ V_1 $ and $ V_2 $ are primarily used in large aircraft . In light twins you also need to be aware of $ V _ { MC } $ . $ V _ { MC } $ is the minimum controllable airspeed with an engine inop . In particular you do not want to be slower than this airspeed during climbout in case of engine failure .
I think there are already plenty of answers here to give you a clue : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Normally , atitude restrictions give a top limit . A minimum altitude is hard to enforce when one engine fails - then the aircraft can only continue at a lower altitude ( typically around 15,000 ft for a two-engined jet ) or the cabin pressurization fails ( now the aircraft needs to continue below 10,000 ft ) . This is speculation , but maybe the 26,000 ft limit is caused by information that rebels in the West Sinai have gotten hold of <URL> . Those have a fairly low upper limit to their effectiveness .
At the absolute simplest , compared to a two-bladed propeller , a slightly smaller three-bladed propeller can produce more thrust at a given RPM , improving climb performance . Because of the smaller diameter , the propeller tips actually travel slower than the equivalent two-bladed design , reducing noise inside and outside the airplane . Hartzell Propeller has a great <URL> . Their explanation of why more blades produces less noise is pretty good : A 2-blade propeller produces two pressure pulses per revolution , where a 3-blade propeller will produce three smaller pulses per revolution ( for the same amount of total thrust ) which is inherently smoother and therefore quieter . The 3-blade propeller will generally have a smaller diameter than the 2-blade propeller that it replaces , which also reduces the tip speed and noise .
It looks like British Airways may still offer their <URL> , which Danny Beckett mentioned in <URL> . Another possible option would be to move to another ( probably non-Western ) country for a while . Southeast Asia in particular is experiencing a large amount of growth in airline traffic and seems to hire lots of American , Australian , and European pilots , so you might be more likely to find openings in a program there that would cover the cost . The Middle East might also be an option , given their current huge growth in airline traffic , though I 'm not sure what their hiring policies are like . Cathay Pacific is an example of such a program in Southeast Asia . Among <URL> is their <URL> . They hire people from all over and send them to a flight training school in Australia . I remember them even advertising this program on the plane the last time I flew with them ( a couple of years ago . ) Being a former British colony , someone from the U.K. would probably fit in well there . I think every pilot I had on my last trip with them was either American , British , or Australian . Seems like it would be a fun airline to fly for , too , if you were ok with moving to Hong Kong for at least whatever their commitment period is . With the vast majority of their flights being international on wide-bodies , you 'd likely get to heavy jets much more quickly than you would in Europe or , especially , the U.S. . One additional thing to note , though , as I mentioned in my comment earlier , if you do n't meet RAF 's requirements due to your eyesight , you may also have trouble getting the necessary medical certificate for an Airline Transport Pilot license , especially in Europe or the U.S. . It turns out the EASA 's requirement 's regarding color vision are pretty much identical to the ones I mentioned in my comment earlier regarding FAA standards . <URL> : ( a ) Applicants shall be required to demonstrate the ability to perceive readily the colours that are necessary for the safe performance of duties . ( b ) Examination ( 1 ) Applicants shall pass the Ishihara test for the initial issue of a medical certificate . ( 2 ) Applicants who fail to pass in the Ishihara test shall undergo further colour perception testing to establish whether they are colour safe . ( c ) In the case of class 1 medical certificates , applicants shall have normal perception of colours or be colour safe . Applicants who fail further colour perception testing shall be assessed as unfit . Applicants for a class 1 medical certificate shall be referred to the licensing authority .
For the FAA , a " complex aeroplane " must have : A retractable gear ( not necessary for a seaplane ) ; In-flight adjustable flaps ; and A controllable pitch propeller . The FAA 's definition is given in <URL> : Complex airplane means an airplane that has a retractable landing gear , flaps , and a controllable pitch propeller , including airplanes equipped with an engine control system consisting of a digital computer and associated accessories for controlling the engine and propeller , such as a full authority digital engine control ; or , in the case of a seaplane , flaps and a controllable pitch propeller , including seaplanes equipped with an engine control system consisting of a digital computer and associated accessories for controlling the engine and propeller , such as a full authority digital engine control . However , the EASA has a different definition of a " complex motor-powered aircraft " that is an airplane , which is considerably more " complex " : an aeroplane : with a maximum certificated take-off mass exceeding 5 700 kg , or certificated for a maximum passenger seating configuration of more than nineteen , or certificated for operation with a minimum crew of at least two pilots , or equipped with ( a ) turbojet engine ( s ) or more than one turboprop engine Note that 5700kg is about 12567 pounds .
In AF447 the falling motion most definitely affected the angle of attack . Due to the fact that the pf did keep the stick pulled back for all but the last few seconds of the fall the aircraft was so steep that , although the aircraft was falling at a slight pitch up , angles of attack actually reached as high as 60 ° . The descent was so steep that the air was passing over the pitot tubes at such an angle that it was reading below 40 knots , although the plane was moving far faster then that . The computer required that the airspeed be of a certain value to consider the aoa plausible so the stall warning stopped sounding even though the aoa was between 30 ° and 60 ° during the fall . When it hit the water the forward ground speed and the vertical speed were both 107 kts . As far as why the pilot did not realize he was stalled , that 's the question of the century . Much effort has been put into figuring that out , and there are numerous things that are at play . But in the end I do n't think anyone has come up with a satisfactory answer for that . If you want to dig into the causes of this crash and get a good understanding of Airbus systems in general I highly recommend <URL> and it 's companion <URL> . The author is uniquely qualified and gives the most thorough explanation yet is not as technically challenging as reading the BEA report . All of the numbers mentioned in this answer come from the linked book .
I 'll give the answer from an ATC perspective . A visual approach is the most preferred approach , since we can get aircraft to follow each other , and do n't have to worry as greatly about aircraft getting too close . The rules say we can compress under certain conditions to 2.5 miles on ILS or radar separation approaches , but timing wise , for the runway to be clear , you can often need less separation between aircraft to maximize its usage . With the visual approach , you 're vectoring to keep aircraft closer so they can see each other and follow in closely to each other to the runway . In most ATC facilities , the Tower decides what runway to use , and the approach control calls the type of approach generally on offer ( this can vary depending on facilities and how they agree to run things ) . A pilot can always request a different approach ... they might be delayed , sometimes significantly if they insist on something way out of the loop .
The term " fast ailerons " is an informal term that generally refers to the response of the plane relative to the pilot 's input to the aileron controls on the stick or yolk . The faster the plane responds , the faster the ailerons ( or other controls ) . The roll rate is the speed at which a plane can complete a roll . This depends on a number of factors , including aileron size , maximum aileron deflection , wing length , and speed . Ailerons that can deflect a lot of air without disrupting the airflow over the wing too much are desirable in an aerobatic plane , so the roll rate can be increased and so the plane will have better roll control at lower speeds . While larger ailerons are desirable on an aerobatic plane , they are also more susceptible to flutter at high speeds , which is not desirable because it tends to rip them off the wing . There are several design techniques that can be used to mitigate this , such as gap seals , counterweights , countersurfaces , etc. .
There have been many accidents because the vacuum system failed ; AOPA has <URL> that discusses some of them , and see <URL> for an example . As for accidents caused because the pilot did n't notice , that 's a more difficult question : if the pilot did n't survive then there 's <URL> and what he experienced . It 's always possible that the pilot was fully aware that the vacuum system failed , he just was n't good enough at <URL> to keep the aircraft under control .
Most of the time the turbulence we experience is termed " chop " , which is akin to what you experience on a boat on the lake -- bumps but no real altitude deviations . With altitude deviations we 'll call it " turbulence " . Within these broad categories we 'll qualify them with " light " , " moderate " , " severe " and " extreme " in reports to ATC and other aircraft . These reports do suffer from a fair bit of subjectivity with respect to aircraft type ( wing stiffness ) and pilot experience . If it is light chop , I 'll generally just ride it out and turn the seatbelt signs on . The first thing I 'll do if encountering moderate chop or turbulence is to query ATC and get ride reports from aircraft ahead of us and at different altitudes than us . From this information I 'll make a determination to ride it out or to request a climb/descent . If the turbulence was particularly bad , slowing down was an option , but I only came across that need a few times . Our ability to descend would often be limited by route length and fuel and major lateral deviations also depended on contingency fuel , so in some cases we had no choice but to stay in the chop . If the turbulent areas were well forecast or had lots of PIREPS , our dispatchers would sometimes route us differently . As for power adjustments , if we were n't slowing down due to aircraft limitations I would just adjust power so that maximum airspeed deviations stayed below Mmo .
Can a large modern jet airliner plunge intact underwater from flight ? No . Large airliners are not desgned for this and are not even strong enough to make a landing on water in less than perfect conditions . E.g. . <URL> striking the surface at a larger angle would certainly lead to widespread disintegration . Is it possible for a large modern jet airliner to sink intact ? Yes ( as near as makes no difference ) Almost all large aircraft impacting the sea surface in an emergency or uncontrolled will break up immediately and catastrophically . One notable exception was <URL> , an A320 , which was landed on water without breaking up . It was described as " still virtually intact though partially submerged and slowly sinking " . The left engine detached and sank . So a controlled landing on water is possible under extremely favourable circumstances . It would then be possible for the aircraft to sink in more-or-less one piece without creating a large amount of floating debris .
On the EMB-145 the passenger cabin was split into 5 zones and we were given passenger totals in each zone from the flight attendant prior to leaving the gate . If balance is off ( this happened quite rarely for us ) you would tell the flight attendant " I need 2 passengers from zone 5 moved to zone 1 " or " I need a passenger from zone 3 moved to zone 2 " or some other similar instruction . The flight attendant would solicit volunteers and if no one did , they would instruct someone to move . The move was only for takeoff and once airborne they could go back to their normal seat . After moving passengers we would re-calculate the weight and balance to verify we were in the envelope and set takeoff trim . Similar methods are used in larger airplanes with the cabin split into zones . The only time we would use ballast is when we had a full cabin and not enough bags in the cargo ( not common ) . In those cases we would ask ops for ballast and they would put something in the cargo . They would try to make it useful if an outstation needed something else they would just load 50 lb bags of sand .
Over Europe and many other parts of the world , the general rule is that if an aircraft in controlled airspace does not reply to instructions from Air Traffic Control , military jets will be scrambled to intercept the aircraft . Basically you are asking if there are exceptions to that rule . I think there are a few . First of all , ATC will not inform the military of every instruction that is not reacted to ; there would n't be enough jets . Pilots do miss instructions occasionally , sometimes aircraft are handed of to the wrong frequency by ATC , wrong frequencies are entered into the radio etc. . All these things usually sort themselves out in matter of minutes and it would be a waste of resources to scramble . If no contact is established after a certain amount of time , only then the military will be involved . However if an aircraft starts to deviate from earlier acknowledged instructions without reacting on the radio , it is safe to assume that the time to alert the military is considerably shorter . And then of course the aircraft must be in range of military jets . An aircraft halfway across the Atlantic is simply too far out for most interceptors so until the aircraft is getting closer to shore I do n't think there is much reason to scramble jets . Some more information about loss of communications , causes and prevention can be found in this <URL> . For obvious reasons the exact procedures for scrambling military aircraft are not publicly available .
According to the <URL> , this definition is in <URL> : ( d ) Commercial aircraft . A " commercial aircraft " is any aircraft transporting passengers and/or cargo for some payment or other consideration , including money or services rendered . [ ... ] ( h ) Private aircraft . A " private aircraft " is any aircraft engaged in a personal or business flight to or from the U.S. which is not : ( 1 ) Carrying passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes ; ( 2 ) Leaving the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in order to lade passengers and/or cargo in a foreign area for commercial purposes ; or ( 3 ) Returning to the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in ballast after leaving with passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes ;
The bank angle ( $ \ phi $ ) in a stationary turn is limited by the maximal load factor of the aircraft ( or the pilot - whichever is less ) : $ $ \ phi _ { max } = \ arccos ( \ frac { 1 } { n _ { max } } ) $ $ Utility category gliders ( $ n _ { max } = 5.3 $ ) have a maximum bank angle of 79 ° . Aerobatic gliders with $ n _ { max } $ between 7 and 10 can fly only slightly steeper turns ( 82 ° -84 ° ) . If you 're flying with an airspeed slower than design manoeuvring speed $ V_A $ the limiting factor is the maximum lift coefficient . In that case , the formula gets $ $ \ phi _ { max } = \ arccos ( \ left ( \ frac { V_S } { V } \ right ) ^ 2 ) $ $ $ V_S $ is the stalling speed in the current configuration , $ V$ the airspeed of the glider . <URL> ( own work ) Then , how do you get the tightest turn radius ? With high speed and high bank angle or with low speed and low bank angle ? Without the structural limitation the radius could become 0 . With it , however , your best option to get a minimal turn radius is to fly with maneuvring speed and maximum load factor . You can use the following diagram to calculate the minimum turn radius at any speed ( just multiply the ordinate with the squared stall speed of your aircraft ) . <URL> As stated in many comments , during aerobatics/dynamic manuevers you can get any bank angle for a certain ( sometimes really short ) period of time : <URL> 0 ° / 180 ° bank angle <URL> <URL> 90 ° bank angle <URL>
Definitions from <URL> . Metering : A method of time-regulating arrival traffic flow into a terminal area so as not to exceed a predetermined terminal acceptance rate . Metering airport : Airport adapted for metering and for which optimum flight paths are defined . Metering fix : A fix along an established route from over which aircraft will be metered prior to entering terminal airspace . Normally , this fix should be established at a distance from the airport which will facilitate a profile descent 10,000 feet above airport elevation [ AAE ] or above . But behind these definitions , that 's a whole domain under research and experimentation to shape the future of air traffic management . Metering methods are currently designed to respond to traffic increase , resulting airports congestion , and requirement for fuel saving and less nuisances from aviation . Solutions are known collectively under AMAN acronym for <URL> . As said , this fix is established on a route prior to the terminal airspace , 10,000 feet or more above the airport elevation . It can be the <URL> . The concept is to manage cruise speed to arrive at the metering fix in time , instead of holding/vectoring before ( or in ) the terminal area . ATC can determine in advance times aircraft will be allowed into the TMA , based on aircraft capabilities , traffic and weather ) . ATC is able to issue a " EXPECT descent in n minutes " to facilitate planning by crew using their FMS . This allows for limited vectoring and holding prior to the TMA . When holding/vectoring is still needed , it happens at higher altitude , which is better for noise/emissions management . <URL> Thales AMAN/DMAN concept in Europe , <URL> For example , there is such metering for arrival at Sydney . Sydney has a curfew at night , aircraft are descended in the order they arrive , which encourage crews of early flights to arrive before the end of the curfew and hold . But because many crews use this trick , waiting time increases . By using metered arrivals ( ALOFT in-house system and <URL> AMAN from Thales ) , crews are provided with a narrow time window for crossing metering fixes , one at 160 NM from the airport , the other at 40 NM . Once you have the window , there is not need to hurry and then wait . The time crossing the first metering fix can be provided up to 1,000 NM before arriving at this fix . What 's exactly a profile descent and how is it related to the metering fix ? The descent profile is the curve of altitudes followed for descent . The most efficient way to descent is the continuous descent without level segments . The aircraft just glides with idling engines and clean configuration ( less noise , less fuel , reduced wake ) . This profile is only possible if nothing prevents to descent at any point , e.g. a congestion in the terminal area . By ensuring a free descent after the metering fix , this portion of the descent can be optimized for fuel saving and noise reduction . So how does a metering fix work to absorbs arrival delays ? What merits does it have as compared to delay vectors and holds ? The idea behind AMAN is to regulate traffic the most upstream possible , start sequencing early , and prevent wait time in flight . There is a complementary solution which is currently investigated too : DMAN for Departure Management , with transition fixes ( also visible on the picture ) . AMAN and DMAN systems can be coupled . As pointed out by @Lnafziger , metering fixes can be used more upstream than terminal area , up to departure . Such upstream fixes are visible on the picture . If we add Surface Management ( SMAN ) , block-out times can be optimized effectively , minimizing taxi and airborne time , and at the same time minimizing delays and nuisances . These systems tend to switch from distance sequencing to time sequencing . This field is currently actively experimented , both in the US , Europe ( LFPG experimenting coupled AMAN/DMAN ) and Australia and a few other locations . <URL> <URL> For more , see also : <URL> I hope @DeltaLima will show and provide additional elements for Eurocontrol .
It depends on the strength of the tornado and other variables , but in most cases , a plane Vs tornado will end very very badly for the aircraft and its occupants in a low altitude high speed scenario . A good example would be the <URL> , a <URL> that flew into a thunderstorm 8 minutes into takeoff and crashed after the wing was torn off . From the <URL> : At 17:12 the aircraft entered a tornado , which resulted in loads on the airframe increasing to +6.8 G and -3,2 G . The right wing was bent upwards followed by a severe downward sweep . This compromised the structural integrity of the wing , causing a large portion of the outer wing to separate in an upward and rearward motion . Control was lost and the aircraft impacted a railway bridge inverted . Everyone abroad the aircraft perished . FAA is <URL> : Pilots should observe the following rules for any flight routed even potentially near actual or possible thunderstorm activity : • Avoid all thunderstorms . And also , Although pilots have flown through limited state thunderstorms with little or no damage to the aircraft or passengers , these pilots should consider themselves extremely fortunate to be alive . ( emphasis original ) . Note : I 've used both thunderstorms and tornadoes here . <URL> defines them as : Thunderstorm : A storm ( produced by a cumulonimbus cloud ) that includes rain showers , lightning , and thunder . Tornado : A violently rotating column of air that extends down from the base of a thunderstorm to the ground .
end question
start question
How do Aircraft differentiate between Missile Locks ?
Non-holographic radar systems such as those used in fighter aircraft and active guided missiles only point in one direction at a time . Normally , when the radar is in search mode , a mechanism inside the radar makes the beam move from side to side ( possibly up and down as well ) , so it has a wider field of view and can pinpoint the direction of any aircraft it finds . The aircraft with the radar warning receiver ( RWR ) sees a brief pulse of radiation every second or so : only when the beam is pointing in its direction . This way , it knows the radar emitter is in search mode , and the direction of the emitter . Every aircraft in the radar 's field of view will see the beam at different times , and they will all see the radar on their RWR screens . In a combat zone this is potentially a lot of emitters , but the RWR can analyse the radar signal to identify the radar : what type of aircraft , SAM , or ground radar it is , and whether it 's friendly or enemy . Getting the position of the target only every second is n't good enough to guide a missile towards it . When the radar is in track or launch mode , it stops scanning the beam , and keeps it pointed at the target aircraft . The RWR on the target aircraft now sees much faster pulses of radiation , so it knows that it is the sole target of the radar . At this time , it can warn the pilot of a missile lock . But because the radar is now only pointing in this one direction , other aircraft in the area do n't get illuminated by radar at all . Their RWR systems wo n't pick anything up . Only the aircraft that 's actually threatened gets the missile lock warning . In addition , the same analysis that can identify what type of radar is illuminating the aircraft can also identify fully active radar-guided missiles . Like when the aircraft 's radar is in track or launch mode , the missile 's radar emitter only points in one direction , and does n't scan , so only the target aircraft will see it . Obviously it 's a little bit more complicated than this . There are a lot of details about how frequent the radar pulses are , and how the RWR knows the range of the source , but I hope I 've captured all the important information in an understandable way .
No , rocket missiles are recoil-less weapons . When firing a gun , the charge burns inside the chamber and the generated gasses do not escape before the shell leaves the barrel , so the reaction force is transferred to the body of the gun . When firing a rocket missile however there is open space behind he missile and the reaction force only accelerates the generated gasses that are ejected off the back and does not affect the launching platform significantly . This is true for missiles launched from tube ( like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> ) , off a rail like the wing-tip sidewinders or from free fall like most of the heavier air-launched rockets . The lack of recoil is an important advantage of rockets . Bazooka can be fired from shoulder while anti-tank gun with comparable explosive charge is heavy device and needs good support to handle the recoil . On the other hand rockets need more propellant than comparable gun shells , because the generated gasses leaving at high speed carry away a lot of kinetic energy most of which would be available for the shell in a gun .
First off , very rarely will you shoot at an unidentified aircraft . Most engagements require a visual ID , or a hostile action , prior to engagement . However , you will also program your aircraft with specific ROE logic that will indicate that certain aircraft are friendly , as identified by IFF transponders , Link 16 , etc. . You can still lock up friendly aircraft , and we frequently do to facilitate rendezvous with friendly aircraft and to clear ourselves from traffic , but if your master switch goes to ARM and you have a friendly locked up , there 's a good chance you wo n't be flying again for awhile , if ever . When we lock up an aircraft , 99 % of the time , it does not indicate an intention to shoot . By using our radar and " locking up " a target we get target aircraft altitude , speed , range , target aspect , heading , $ Vc $ , etc , all useful things that come in handy for routine events .
Most aircraft compasses include compensating magnets to correct for installation error ( due to natural magnetic fields in an aircraft from steel parts and electrical equipment ) . When installing a new compass or performing significant electrical work on an aircraft the compass may need to be re-calibrated and the compensating magnets adjusted ( typically by turning small screws , like the ones shown below ) . <URL> There are several ways to calibrate ( or " swing " ) an aircraft compass - the use of a properly-surveyed compass rose constructed to applicable FAA standards and marked on an airport is one of them , and ensures the compass swing is being performed in an area free of magnetic disturbances which should result in an accurate calibration . The basic procedure is to taxi the aircraft to the compass rose and align it with the compass directions using a combination of the ground markings and a " gunsight " compass . A full description of the procedure can be found in <URL> , Chapter 12-37 ( " Compass Swing " ) , but the quick-and-dirty version is : Taxi out to the compass rose and align the aircraft so it is pointing toward Magnetic North . Adjust the compass compensating magnets so that the compass reads North . Turn the airplane so it is pointing toward Magnetic East ( 090 ) . Adjust the compass compensating magnets so that the compass reads East . Turn the airplane so it is pointing toward Magnetic South ( 180 ) . Adjust the compass compensating magnets to remove one half of the " South " error . Turn the airplane so it is pointing toward Magnetic West ( 270 ) Adjust the compass compensating magnets to remove one half of the " West " error . Once the compensating magnets have been adjusted a Compass Deviation Card is prepared to inform the pilot of the remaining compass error . Beginning with Magnetic West ( 270 ) turn the aircraft to align with each of the 30-degree lines on the compass rose ( 270 , 300 , 330 , North , 30 , 60 , 90 , 120 , 150 , 180 , 210 , 240 ) , and the error is recorded on a compass deviation card similar to the one shown below . <URL> A compass reading within ± 10 degrees on each 30-degree heading marker is considered acceptable per AC 43-13 , and better results are usually achieved . The compass swing is typically performed with the engine and electrical accessories ( radios ) running per AC 43-13 . Some mechanics may also perform a second swing with radios off , and include an alternate deviation card for that configuration .
They are flown to their customers by either Boeing or pilots from the given airline . As for the Boeing factory its self , the <URL> users Paine Field as their runway . If you look closely there is a <URL> and connects the plant to the main ramp of the airport . This appears to be painted for car traffic but is also used for aircraft . The <URL> lies adjacent to Renton Municipal which it uses to fly the aircraft in and out there <URL> . Similarly the main airbus factory is located next to <URL> . <URL> lies next to <URL> .
Pitot tubes F-117 pitot tubes <URL> Source : <URL> . Also a look at the FLIR and DLIR . F-22 pitot tubes <URL> Source : <URL> . Incorporation of those pitot probes were a cost savings measure . They are also a dominant RCS signature source in the forward and side sectors . The original ATF proposal was for a flush air data system that would have cost many $ millions . - <URL> , F-16 . net F-35 pitot tubes <URL> <URL> . <URL> on F-16 . net . Canopies The canopy keeps radar energy out of the cockpit , the inside of which is filled with messy odds and ends . The F-22 and F-35 canopies are gold-impregnated for this reason . Note : the F-22 's canopy is <URL> doped with <URL> , not gold . In the EA-6B 's case , the gold keeps the a/c 's own radar energy out of the cockpit -- those ram-air turbines are powering two jamming pods . The coating ( and a similar one applied to visors ) also turn black to protect the pilot 's vision from nuclear detonations . <URL> Source : <URL> <URL> Source : <URL> . <URL> Source : Lockheed Martin . <URL> . Notice the similarly tinted/treated window beneath the F-35 's nose . That 's the aperture for the EOTS ( electro-optical targeting system ) , an IRST and ground targeting system . Also note the two small pitot tubes above the EOTS . I remember pitot plates were being developed for the F-35 ( which are stealthier but more difficult to develop ) , but I have n't heard anything about it in a while . Sensor apertures The coverings are transparent to the operating bands of the radar/radio/etc underneath . The F-22 and F-35 have fixed AESA radars . The latter is angled up to minimize returns . <URL> Credit : Northrop Grumman . <URL> . Some radar energy enters through the aperture . Whatever is n't reflected is absorbed by the radar itself or heaps of RAM , which hides the messy rear/sides . <URL> <URL> F-16 . net . <URL> . Fun note , the first F-35 radar pic is of an APG-81 installed on the CATBIRD : <URL> Source : <URL> Did the F-117 have a radar warning receiver ? It 's always been a contentious point . Some say yes , some say no , some say ' I like my job . ' In a <URL> , Lt. Col. Dale Zelko ( the F-117 pilot shot down ) declined to reveal whether the RWR ( if any ) warned him of the missile launch , citing sensitivity . He only reconfirms that he visually tracked the missiles . My guess is the F-117 may have a limited radar warning capability , but perhaps not in the relevant band . If he or the mission planners had detected and thus been aware of of the radar sites , you 'd expect them to plan better routes to avoid the threats . I leave you with a quote from <URL> . We started out a long time ago building airplanes that had low observable technology incorporated into their design . The SR-71 was an example of where we took the aerodynamic design and then added some radar absorbing material to the airplane to make it slightly stealthy . And I 'll give you a representation of that graphically here in a minute . We went to the second generation of airplanes and you can see we designed that airplane , the F-117 , essentially from the bottom up to be stealthy . It was crude technology . It was developed at a time when we did n't have the modeling and computer power we needed to make the kind of aerodynamic design that we would have liked , but we built one that we thought was very stealthy . And of course , the night that Desert Storm opened the quote from Col. Al Whitley still is famous in the Air Force : " Boy , I hope this stuff really works . " And of course , you know that it did . That is n't exactly what he said . Then we came to the third generation of stealth airplanes . We built the B-2 . And of course , by that time , we had the modeling tools and the design tools and the computing power to make an aerodynamic design that was optimum . And this airplane is [ a ] much higher altitude , much better performing airplane than the F-117 . We were able to eliminate a lot of the radar absorbing material from the structure . And by the time we got to the fourth generation , we were able to add supersonic speed , the agility of an F-15 , F-16 class airplane and do that with no degradation to the stealth . In addition to that , we were able to add a number of apertures , in other words , openings in the airplane 's surface for antennas , radars and other sensors . And in the F-22 , as an example , there are over a hundred of those apertures on the airplane , where if we jump back a couple of generations to the F-117 , there are essentially a couple of aperture openings and the rest of them we hide when we go into combat . [ Emphasis mine . ] Some of the F-22 's apertures ... <URL> <URL> <URL> ... whose functionalities were consolidated in the F-35 's fewer apertures ( some shown here ) . <URL> The F-35 's ASQ-239 EW suite , an evolution of the F-22 's ALR-94 , consolidates 30 senors down to 10 . [ Apologies , pressed for time . This answer will be brief , unlike my previous 29,999 character response . ]
The other answers are good , but do n't touch on one key method ... Prevention . Small aircraft like a Cessna 172 have a limited cruise time , about 4 hours maximum . They are small enough that they get relatively uncomfortable after 2-3 hours , and if flying in turbulence or challenging conditions , flights can be relatively short . The best way I 've found to avoid the problem is to make sure to use the facilities as close to departure time as possible and to limit my intake of fluids in the hour or so leading up to a flight . The other option you have is to land and use the " facilities " . Many unmanned airports that have terminals ( like <URL> ) have a keypad access and facilities inside . Airports are pretty common and you usually are n't more than 30 minutes away from an airport with a bathroom . Just as a personal account of this , I was doing night training at my local field ( Class C ) and it was late ( 10:00 PM or so ) . One gentleman came on the radio and asked the tower if the FBO was open so he could use the facilities . The controller responded that the FBO was closed but he could taxi him to a quiet corner of the airfield for a few minutes . The pilot gladly took him up on the offer .
Much like water , exposing fuel to below freezing temperatures does not instantly make it freeze . It takes some amount of time , and as long as the fuel is not exposed to below freezing temperatures long enough to make it freeze , it wo n't be a problem . How much time ? That depends on a number of factors like : Type of fuel Jet A ( common in the US ) has a freezing point of -40 C Jet A1 ( common outside the US ) has a freezing point of -47 C Jet B ( common for some military aircraft and very cold airports ) has a freezing point of -60 C Initial fuel temperature If you fuel in the middle east during the middle of summer , the fuel will be a lot warmer than when you fuel in Siberia in the middle of winter . Warmer fuel will take longer to freeze . Outside air temperature Much like trying to freeze water to form an ice cube , the colder the air around it , the faster that it will freeze . Aircraft speed The faster that the airplane goes , the more friction there is as the air flows over the wing . This heats up the air close to the wing and makes it take longer for the fuel to freeze ( see previous point ) . The temperature at the wing is known as TAT : For example , at an actual temperature of -56.5 C ( SAT ) and Mach 0.72 the TAT is -34 C , but at Mach 0.80 the TAT is -29 C. For more information about SAT - vs - TAT , see my answer about <URL> . Quantity of fuel Much like a small pond will freeze before a large lake , in order to get fuel to freeze you need to lower the temperature of all of it . The more that there is , the longer it will take . Aircraft design Some aircraft run hydraulic lines close to the fuel so that the heat will help slow down the freezing . Some aircraft constantly pump fuel to keep it moving and mixing if it tends to freeze in one part of the tank before the rest Some aircraft use fuel to cool the engine oil using a heat exchanger , and return the warmed fuel to the tanks Many other design factors In general , fuel will not freeze in the typical amount of time that an aircraft is aloft . If particular routes pose a problem , there are several options that the operator and pilot have : Use a fuel with a lower freezing point Fly at a lower altitude where it is not as cold Choose a route with warmer temperatures Increase the speed of the airplane Carry extra fuel Transfer fuel in a way to keep fuel warmer . Typically this is done by transferring fuel from the relatively warm fuselage tanks to the wing tanks which are exposed to more of the cold air .
The life ( Low Cycle Fatigue life ) on the Civil airliners is generally talked abut in terms of number of cycles i.e. number of flights . And since airliners undertake quite predictable flights in terms of loads and stresses , and typically a very limited variations among these parameters for their entire life ( since any aircraft would be designed for certain type of range and payload and would be used for that particular purpose mainly , for economic reasons ) , its easy to talk in terms of number cycles , since variations from flight to flight are limited . But this issue of keeping track of actual mission profile is very critical for fighter ( actually any military jet but I would restrict myself to only Fighters because its easier to point out the things for this case ) jets which have quite unpredictable usage profile . Any fighter jet is typically designed for a certain mission mix i.e. mixture of a bunch of mission profiles that the fighter is expected to carry with the expected relative frequency ( which comes from the past experience of an Air Force ) . But still in real life , the actual missions flown end up being quite different that this assumed mission mix . Now it is possible to utilize the airframe structural life to best possible extent by keeping track of actual mission profiles flown and debiting life for each mission from the designed number of hours . Obviously one needs to calculate the life debit for actual mission flown in terms of the equivalent hours for assumed designed mission mix . Say a fighter is designed for 8000hrs assuming it will fly 10 times of missions with certain frequency , and it recently flew a mission for which we know the parameter , then what would be the number of hours of equivalent life that was utilized from this 8000hrs . . ? To calculate this we need the loading parameters of each mission such as how many Gs were pulled for how long time intervals , how many rolls performed with what roll rate and so on . Every aircraft has system which collects this information ( measured by various sensors ) for entire mission . Once on the ground , this information is fed to what is called as " Life Tracking System " . It analyses the data , calculates how many hours of debit this mission took on the airframe and then decides what is remaining life . This can be done at component level as well and one can keep track of available life of each component and accordingly schedule maintenance for each component individually . I am not sure how this is exactly done for entire aircraft ( Looking for Patents by Aircraft OEMs would be a good way to start digging in ) , but I know for the Jet engines . The methodology should be the same in principle . Specifics might change . I suggest you read about Volvo Aero RM12 Life Tracking System ( LTS ) which finds its origin in GE 's LTS for F404 . ( <URL> ) and <URL> . Essentially all OEMs have similar systems now . RM12 has improved utility of the engine by ~ 30 % i.e. the engine is used for 30 % more time now as compared to the case where LTS was not used and differences in missions were not accounted for . Because many missions do not take as much toll on the structural life as it was expected during design ( or more number of less stressful missions are flown in actual practice than it was assumed for design ) . Most popular technique used to calculate the equivalent LCF life debit for each mission considering variations in loads and stresses for each mission specifically is known as <URL> . The process essentially looks like this : <URL> You apply the actual measured loads and see what stresses the analysis predicts for each mission . Then apply Rain flow Counting to calculate accumulated structural fatigue damage and residual life remaining . Rain drop counting is the model which helps you covert the irregular fatigue loading ( i.e. varying missions ) to equivalent cyclic loading and thereby coming up with a life debit number which is equivalent to the design mission mix and which you can subtract from the designed life hours . That 's how you can take care of variation in the missions and loadings in each mission .
Here 's how the PAPI lights work : Depending on the angle of the viewer , a different color is seen : Then each light is calibrated to an angle : The good thing about this is that it 's dead simple technology where very few things can go wrong : The lights have to be on and calibrated for the correct angle . The downside is that its usefulness decreases with lower visibility . Some new systems appear to have solar panels as an off grid ( and alternative/backup ) power source which is sensible . Many systems today also have LED lights . If two airplanes with two different altitudes approach , do they see different number of white and red lights ? Or are the lights set for the closer airplane ? The system is independent and passive , in the sense that it never makes contact or note of the aircraft approaching . It lights up all to all aircraft in the beam . Hence , it ' works ' for all aircraft at the same time . Some new systems feature <URL> ( Final Approach Runway Occupancy Signal ) giving an indication that the runway may be occupied by another aircraft by flashing the lights . For a little information on differences between similar systems to PAPI , see <URL> .
I 've downvoted the answer from Habu because it ignores a major difference in engine design . For small GA planes , the Lycoming engines have the carburetor bolted to the bottom of the crankcase where it gets some heat from the hot oil . Fuel/air exits the top of the carb where it is routed through pipes inside the crankcase where the hot oil further increases its temperature . This makes the Lyc generally resistant to induction icing . In Continentals , the updraft carburetor is not mounted on the hot crankcase but on part of the manifold assembly , insulating the carb itself from the heat of the crankcase , and the fuel/air mixture is routed directly to the intake manifold and not through the engine crankcase which holds the hot oil . The result is that the TCM O-300 engine has earned the reputation of being an icemaker . The difference in the POH instructions as to how to fly each engine is directly attributable to engine design and it has absolutely nothing to do with the weather in Vero Beach versus Wichita . I 'm going to post line drawing images of the two engines to illustrate the point . First : Lycoming . Second : Continental What the original poster is missing is that for most of its history , the Cessna design used Continental engines . Now that it has switched to Lycoming engines , the difference in the engines is probably zero , but they have not abandoned the former POH instructions as that might be confusing to the pilots that fly these planes . After all , using carb heat more often as a default procedure for the Lyc powered Cessnas is a safe procedure .
To add some data to Matthew 's answer : Anti aircraft missiles come in basically 4 types ( some others have been tried but are n't in common use ) . Active radar homing Passive radar homing Infrared homing Laser guided Active radar homing has a radar in the missile sending out signals . Those signals can be detected and classified by the target aircraft . Passive radar homing has a receiver in the missile reacting to specific signals bounced off of the target by the launching system . These too can be detected and classified by the target aircraft . Infrared missiles are completely passive and ca n't be detected this way . Laser guided missiles are like passive radar homing missiles , except they react to reflections of a laser beam rather than a radar signal . These too can of course be detected and classified with appropriate sensors . There have been some attempts at detecting missiles by their own infrared signature , typically their engine exhaust . But this is problematic because most of that is of course blocked from the missile 's target by the missile body , and also many missiles will spend a lot of their flight towards the target in an unpowered glide state , thus not having a hot engine exhaust . Other systems generally ca n't be detected by the target either . Think optical guidance using a radio link with the missile ( while you might be able to detect the link , you ca n't readily know what it 's doing or that you 're the target if you do recognise it as a missile guidance link ) . Optical guidance using control wires is not generally used with anti-aircraft missiles , but sometimes anti-tank missiles using these systems are used against slow flying aircraft . These are utterly impossible to detect .
You 're right , insects are very small , so they influence things which happen on their scale . The one important phenomenon on an airliner which has the scale of insects is the <URL> , the sheet of air around all wetted surfaces where air speed changes from zero ( relative to the plane ) to the speed it has at some distance . This is called the boundary layer . Its thickness changes from zero at the stagnation point to several centimeters at the end of a long fuselage . What does the boundary layer look like ? At the leading edge , the boundary layer starts with a thickness of zero . Now friction with the wing will cause some air molecules to be slowed down , and soon you get a sheet of air in which the molecules closest to the aircraft 's skin will move with the skin , and the more you move away from the skin , the less they are slowed down . Initially , the layers of air within the boundary layer show no cross movement of molecules . Compare it with a multi-lane road with bumper-to-bumper traffic where no car changes lanes . Since all molecules move along their layer of air , this is called laminar flow ( lat . lamina = layer ) . At some point downstream <URL> , and once they become unstable , molecules will move between the layers of air . Now you have faster ones from more distant layers moving closer to the skin and kicking the slow ones there ahead , and slower ones from close to the skin moving away , slowing down the more distant layers . Now the cars in your multi-lane road cross lanes , and the result is that all lanes but the rightmost one will move at similar speed . Since the cross-flow is the result of turbulence , this boundary layer is called turbulent . Speed profiles of laminar ( left ) and turbulent ( right ) boundary layers . Image <URL> . Consequences for drag The cross flow causes the turbulent boundary layer to have a much steeper speed gradient at the aircraft skin , causing much more friction drag . At the same time , more energy is taken from the flow due to friction , so the whole boundary layer becomes thicker . If you look at the local friction drag , the parameter plots made possible by <URL> are quite illuminating . Friction drag over chord for an E502mod airfoil at 3 ° AoA . Blue : Top surface , Red : Bottom surface . The plot shows the friction over chord for an airfoil at 3 ° angle of attack . All flow is attached ( save for one small separation bubble on the bottom near the transition point ) . Can you spot the transition points from laminar to turbulent flow ? Yes , it 's where the friction drag jumps up and stays annoyingly high downstream . Note that the flow around an airliner 's wing happens at a much higher <URL> , so the transition points are closer to the leading edge than in the plot above . I chose the low Reynolds Number in the plot above because it shows the phenomenon more clearly . But you see also a friction spike at the nose ! This is caused by the very small thickness of the young boundary layer . Even though it is laminar , it shows a high friction contribution simply because it is still very thin . Now imagine you have both effects , a thin boundary layer and the bigger friction of a turbulent boundary layer , added together . This is what bugs at the leading edge of the wing will give you ! They make the wing 's surface rough and drive up friction losses due to an early transition of the boundary layer into turbulent flow . Consequences for maximum lift But there is also a second effect : The longer the boundary layer develops , the more the flow loses the ability to slow down and increase pressure towards the trailing edge . A flow 's energy is either speed or pressure , but if the energy of the flow is sapped by friction , none of both is left when needed to negotiate the last half of the wing 's shape . <URL> if it had been turbulent from the beginning , and the wing will stall at a lower angle of attack . This is the second negative consequence of bugs on a wing . It can be mitigated by careful airfoil design , but then this airfoil will show lower bug-free performance . Glider pilots know this very well , especially those who flew <URL> which used the <URL> . It had excellent L/D without bugs , but both rain and bugs converted the plane to something resembling a brick . I once flew a <URL> into a shower , and minimum speed increased from 80 km/h to 110 km/h . A few seconds of flying at higher speed cleaned the wing , but then it was time to land , because I had lost so much altitude .
<URL> starting at about 1:20 in . <URL> . This is a <URL> as well . It really seems to depend on mode but its summarized here nicely , Climbing into the front seats of the Osprey definitely does not produce the most graceful entrance : it requires some contorting around the armrest , center console and overhead panel . The cockpit is dominated by four night-vision-goggle-compatible , six-inch-square multi-function displays that allow access to flight , navigation and system information . Mechanical flight controls consist of a center control stick , thrust control lever ( TCL ) and rudder pedals . The control stick functions as cyclic control while in conversion and helicopter modes , but steadily fades into a traditional airplane control stick as the nacelles transition to airplane mode . The TCL moves fore and aft just like an airplane throttle , unlike a helicopter collective . It does operate as a collective control , however , and becomes a traditional throttle during the transition . While this may seem counter-intuitive to helicopter pilots , it actually makes a lot of sense , because regardless of the mode of flight , youre always doing the same thing : controlling the thrust vector . Forward on the TCL in helicopter mode is the same as raising the collective in a helicopter , and vice versa . The first couple of hours for helicopter pilots transitioning to the Osprey highlight a bit of collective dyslexia , but very quickly it never becomes a further problem . A spring-loaded , knurled rotary knob on the TCL that lies in contact with the pilots left thumb controls the nacelles . Roll the thumbwheel aft and the nacelles rotate to the vertical , roll it forward and the nacelles continue to the downstops . The controls follow the hands on throttle and stick , or HOTAS , concept , and have all the controls necessary on them to control multiple systems on the airplane .
Most airplanes have a POH ( Pilot Operating Handbook ) with a table on aircraft distances . <URL> .
Appearances can be deceiving . The view " behind " a Piper Cherokee looks something like the image below : no rear window so you ca n't see what 's behind you , but that really does n't matter since there 's no way to go " backward " in this aircraft using the flight controls . Visibility aside , ground handling is often a a complex production , particularly for larger aircraft or when you have a lot of aircraft in proximity to each other or obstacles . Moving small aircraft around typically requires at least 3 people . When you 're moving forward you will have the person operating the tug and two " wing walkers " who stand a few feet off the wingtips and walk along to make sure the wings are n't going to hit anything . When pushing an aircraft back in a tightly packed hangar there 's sometimes a fourth person walking ahead of the tail to make sure you do n't back the plane into something . Since there 's not usually much for the pilot to do inside the plane at this point , they usually serve as one of the walkers . Larger aircraft observe similar procedures , but for push-backs or power-backs it 's known that the area behind the aircraft is clear ( this is usually coordinated over the radio ) , and as long as the tug driver or pilot keeps the nosewheel on the appropriate pavement markings there will be wingtip clearance . Line personnel are also often stationed to <URL> in close quarters where positioning is critical ( e.g. when pulling an airliner up to a gate , or parking a small aircraft on a busy ramp ) . The other half of the picture is taxiing under your own power and control . When taxiing , it 's generally assumed that the pilot knows their aircraft 's dimensions and will avoid hitting things . This usually works out well , but <URL> . Airport taxiways are marked so an aircraft with a specific maximum wingspan will be clear of any obstacles while taxiing along the centerline , and as you 're generally only going forward that 's where visibility is most important ( you can assume if the area your wingtip was going to hit was clear 15 seconds ago when you last saw it and nothing was heading into that area it 's still clear now , and you 're relying on the pilot of the aircraft behind you to be paying attention and not taxi into your tail ) .
There are a few ways that pilots are aware of potentially turbulent areas . Eyesight The most obvious way is just by looking outside and observing the sky . Large billowing clouds , called cumulus clouds , indicated pockets of unstable air ( the clouds are rising because the air under them is as well ) . If the pilots must fly through these clouds then its a safe bet that there will be some turbulence . Weather Radar Just like using your eyes , except the radar can see further through haze and other clouds . Typically this is useful for finding embedded thunderstorms , but it can also be useful to find areas of potential turbulence . Communication Pilots talk . Both to each other and to air traffic controllers . En route controllers frequently ask pilots for " PIREPS " ( pilot reports ) , to build an accurate picture of the flight conditions at different altitudes . Often commercial aircraft will request to change altitudes or deviate around weather / turbulence , so it is in the best interest of the controller to know ahead of time where the bad flight conditions are , and have a game plan of how to route traffic . This makes it much easier for the controller to route traffic , rather than getting request after request from individual aircraft .
The location of the flare/chaff dispenser ( FCD ) depends on the aircraft type and even in case of the same aircraft , they can be located in different place , depending on the version and customer . For example , the F-16 carries the FCD in its body fairing , as can be seen in the following image of Hellenic Air Force F-16 Demo Team " Zeus " . <URL> Image from <URL> The following image shows a close view of FCD . <URL> Image from <URL> , credited to Capt. Lance The following image shows an Israeli F-16B ' Nezt ' having FCD between its ventral fins . <URL> Image from <URL> Initially , most of the FCDs were retrofitted to the existing aircraft and were simply attached to them . However , most of the modern aircraft have FCD bays integrated into their fuselage . Still , some aircraft can carry extra flares/chaffs in their pylons ( called PIDS ( Pylon Integrated Dispenser System ) ) , as shown below in an RDAF aircraft . <URL> Image from <URL> , credited to Erik Frikke Also , most of the combat aircraft have the FCD in the bottom , while transport aircraft ( and helicopters ) have them on their sides .
Altimeters are calibrated to a standard atmosphere model ( International Standard Atmosphere , <URL> ) . What the altimeter shows you is the vertical distance between the altitude equivalent to your current pressure ( pressure altitude ) and a reference " pressure altitude " . The reference pressure altitude is set in pressure units ( hPa or In . Hg ) on the altimeter subscale . This is known as the " altimeter setting " , set in the " altimeter setting window " . Image credit : <URL> Flying at lower altitudes ( below " transition altitude " ) , the altimeter is set to airport/regional QNH , which is a pressure calculated so that if you were standing on the measurement point , the altimeter would indicate your exact elevation . At other altitudes , it would approximate altitude above mean sea level , although it would show incorrectly if temperature differed from ISA . Above transition altitude , the altimeter is set to QNE , or standard pressure ( 1013.25 hPa , or 29.92 In . Hg ) . The altimeter will now only indicate correctly if both temperature and pressure are in accordance with ISA . You are now flying on " flight level " ( where the FL is your QNE indication in hundreds of feet , ie 20,000 ft = FL200 ) . For the purpose of avoiding obstacles , both QNH and QNE have to be corrected using various methods , which are described in various manuals . ( QNH for temperature , QNE for both temperature and pressure , both for other possible factors such as wind etc ) . For instance , this diagram shows three different aircraft , all flying the same pressure altitude , but with three different true altitudes : Image credit : <URL> However , altitude is also used for the purpose of traffic separation , and for this purpose , neither QNH or QNE is corrected . This might sound counter-intuitive , but as long as your altimeter is showing the same error as any conflicting traffic , you can be safely separated , therefore : The altitude shown on the altimeter is not corrected at all ( except by calibration for possible aerodynamic interference , such as compressibility , venturi-effects etc ) . In technically sophisticated aircraft , barometric altitude input is used for vertical navigation . Since vertical navigation is concerned with the true altitude of the aircraft , the aircrafts Air Data Computer ( ADC ) will calculated a true altitude based on information available to it ( either through sensors , or through pilot input ) . The true altitude is however , as stated , not shown on the pilots primary flight instruments .
When multiple U.S. military aircraft are operating in formation , they do so as a " flight " . This flight has a callsign , and in the case of Presidential transport flights , this callsign is the Presidential one , such as Air Force One or Marine One . For POTUS transport using a fixed-wing aircraft , the flight typically consists of a single aircraft , usually one of the VC-25s specifically built for the purpose . Its fighter escort , if any ( typically there is one ) , is a different " flight " that operates in tandem with Air Force One as the escort " element " of the complete transportation " package " . Therefore , for Air Force One and for Navy or Executive fixed wing equivalents , the aircraft is the flight and has the callsign . When the " Marine One " helicopters must be used , however , a very sophisticated " shell game " is played , as you already know . Not only are multiple helicopters used ( I 've seen up to 6 in use at the same time ) , they are externally identical in appearance , and they change position in the flight formation constantly . The Secret Service has even gone so far as to use body doubles that would make positive ID of the helicopter the actual President has entered difficult , even if an enemy faction had spotters in place to track each individual helicopter 's position in the flight the whole time it 's in the air . This entire flight of multiple helicopters is what carries the " Marine One " callsign . Individual aircraft within the flight , if typical military radio procedures are followed , would be identified by adding a craft number suffix : " Marine One-One " , " Marine One-Two " , etc. . I do n't know whether the aircraft change craft numbers during flight to match formation position , or if the pilots just keep track of which chopper 's where as they juggle . So , a potential assassin would either have to take a 50-50 shot ( or worse ) at one of the choppers in the flight , or he 'd have to coordinate with multiple launchers to attack all the choppers simultaneously ( and the larger the effort , the more communication is required to plan and execute it , which increases the group 's exposure and the potential for detection ) . If there is any reliable intel that the President would be targeted with this level of sophistication during a visit , he usually does n't go ; he has a VP , a Secretary of State and a cadre of ambassadorial representatives whose job it is to personally represent the President anywhere in the world the President himself can not be , for any reason .
end question
start question
Why do you have to keep your seat belt fastened after landing ?
Ground operations are just as dangerous as air operations . Strictly speaking the <URL> ( not saying seatbelt played a role or not however severe accidents do happen on the ground ) . The comments cover things well , ( <URL> , <URL> etc. ) Planes are not safe simply because they are on the ground , they are only safe from flight related incidents and once on the ground they are susceptible to ground related incidents . <URL> happen a year . The fact remains there are plenty of things to hit on the ground and plenty that can go wrong in taxi . These accidents are <URL> ( RAMP ) and ( GCOL ) codes ( and potentially others ) . <URL> ( taxi and ground ops make up about 10 % ) . <URL> as well as <URL> requires it ... ( 3 ) Except as provided in this paragraph , each person on board a U.S.-registered civil aircraft ( except a free balloon that incorporates a basket or gondola or an airship type certificated before November 2 , 1987 ) must occupy an approved seat or berth with a safety belt and , if installed , shoulder harness , properly secured about him or her during movement on the surface , takeoff , and landing . For seaplane and float equipped rotorcraft operations during movement on the surface , the person pushing off the seaplane or rotorcraft from the dock and the person mooring the seaplane or rotorcraft at the dock are excepted from the preceding seating and safety belt requirements ...
Why ca n't they jump from it when the plane almost reaches the ground ? They would have higher chances of surviving , right ? Wrong . Remember your body still has roughly the same momentum it did when it was in the vehicle - just because you jumped out does n't mean you 're not still moving forward at a rate of speed the human body simply is n't designed for . Let 's reframe your question : If you were in a car doing 60 miles per hour and you knew the car was about to crash into a brick wall , would you jump from the vehicle , or would you remain strapped into your seat where the car , seat , seatbelt , and airbag will all help absorb the impact ? As with a car , being inside an aircraft and properly restrained will afford you substantial protection from the initial impact , and some of the crash energy will be absorbed damaging the aircraft . That increases the length of time it takes to decelerate your body and gives you a better chance of survival . If you jumped out of your friend 's Cessna because it 's going down and might hit some trees your unrestrained body would be decelerated far more abruptly when you hit the trees ( or the ground ) . You might survive , but you 've lessened your chances considerably ( and the Cessna is a best-case scenario - your forward speed would be around 60mph as in the car example . For something like a 747 you 'd be in the 150 mile-per-hour range or faster when you jumped out , which is almost certainly not survivable ) .
The landing on carrier is indeed hard . The reason is not the deceleration ( which is handled by the hook ) , but the touch-down . Since the deck is short , the wires ca n't be spaced very far apart , so the aircraft must touch down very precisely . Since the precision is better at steeper angle , the aircraft landing on carrier do not flare . At all . So they hit the deck at more than twice the vertical speed compared to typical landing on decent runway .
According to the amplified emergency procedures of the Cessna 172 Model N POH ( emphasis added ) : After an engine failure in flight , the best glide speed shown in Figure 3-1 should be established as quickly as possible . The same POH lists 65 KIAS as the best-glide speed . Time spent away from best glide means less glide range . If increasing time , not glide range , is your goal then the minimum sink rate speed would be what you would want to fly . In an emergency , time and glide range give you more options . The POH and physics agree : yes , establish best-glide speed immediately after an engine failure .
It 's not in the Canadian Aviation Regulations , but in the Aeronautics Act which enable the CARs . <URL> , and yes , if you are a pilot , you have to advise any doctor of that fact , and they in turn must advise the " Minister " if there is a possible aviation hazard . Here it is ( " Canadian Aviation Document " means your pilot licence ) : 6.5 ( 1 ) Where a physician or an optometrist believes on reasonable grounds that a patient is a flight crew member , an air traffic controller or other holder of a Canadian aviation document that imposes standards of medical or optometric fitness , the physician or optometrist shall , if in his opinion the patient has a medical or optometric condition that is likely to constitute a hazard to aviation safety , inform a medical adviser designated by the Minister forthwith of that opinion and the reasons therefor . ( 2 ) The holder of a Canadian aviation document that imposes standards of medical or optometric fitness shall , prior to any medical or optometric examination of his person by a physician or optometrist , advise the physician or optometrist that he is the holder of such a document .
Because each jet engine only has one lever ; each piston engine has three . Jet engine 's throttle is pretty straight forward - move forward , more power . The computer automatically manages fuel flow to prevent surge , flameout and N1 overshoot . On a piston engine you have three - a mixture lever , a propeller lever and a throttle lever . Granted , I do n't think auto-mixture would be too hard to implement . Now , do I want a high-speed climb or high-power climb ? And remember , the prop and throttle must be managed together . You can not go beyond a certain power range with the props set for low rpm , otherwise you 'll damage the engine . It 's like a car 's automatic transmission , except it has one more dimension . Power affects pitch When you change power you must change the aircraft 's pitch altogether . Autopilots on modern airlines have quite a number of vertical modes : ALT , V/S , G/S , VNAV , FLCH , TO/GA , CLB etc. . None of those have the concept of gear ratio , which is required for propeller management . Can you design an autopilot system such that it functions on propeller engines ? Absolutely . But it is going to be complicated . Not only the usual operations , but the failure modes , have to be engineered and learnt by the pilots . How do you deal with an auto-mixture failure ? RPM mismatch ? Such training would add unnecessary cost to an otherwise simple aircraft operation . If your airplane does not have a variable pitch propeller , it is probably too simplistic for this kind of autopilot anyway . Jets have another property which makes auto throttle a logical choice - the faster you fly , the more powerful the engines . Thus , on a jet , you would have to make continuous throttle adjustment if you change your airspeed . So an auto throttle would be helpful . Pistons do not behave like that . Turboprops One of the main reasons for choosing piston aircraft is - it is simple . It just fly . No fancy stuff . No lengthy preflight checks . No computers . I just want to get flying . This thinking also extends to turboprops . It 's worthy to note that the ATR does not have auto throttle as well . The ATR 42 has power management ( but not speed management ) , where activating it will simply move a bug on the torque gauge ; the pilots have to manually move the levers to follow it . The ATR 72 has a notch for the pilots to place the throttle levers , but still , no motor to move the levers automatically . I ca n't think of any reason behind this design philosophy besides simplicity and cost .
Every CFI I have ever flown with has a different procedure for when to descend . Its annoying . Think of it as descending to the runway when you are in a position to land . If you are not following another aircraft , then you can begin your descent abeam the threshold . If you are following another aircraft , then you should wait to descend until you are in a position to land as # 2 , which could be after you 've already turned base or ( long ) final .
Ejection Seats are not a free ticket out . They are incredibly violent and rough on your body . This newspaper article has a more chilling quote from an interview : About one in three will get a spinal facture , due to the force when the seat is ejected - the gravitational force is 14 to 16 times normal gravity and it might be applied at 200G per second . Bruising and abrasions are typical from the shock of the chute opening or the air blast . In the early days , there were cases where pilots would eject into very-high-speed air and it would whip their arms behind and break them , pop their shoulders out ; same thing could happen to the legs . <URL> Hence , it is very possible to get back pains and a host of other problems as a result of ejecting . Since these type of things are not that easily reversible , you 'd rather take the safe path and remove then from the cockpit than put then back in a work environment that known is pretty hard on your body . Aircrew seem to agree : " It was the most violent thing I 've ever felt in my life , " says one of the B-1 crew members , whom the Air Force asked me to identify as " Captain IROC . " " I lost a full inch in height , " because his spine absorbed such tremendous G-forces . <URL> Modern ejection seats are however increasingly intelligent and will gauge the ejection force applied to the conditions , cutting down the number of serious cases . This <URL> discusses the symptoms of four individuals who crashed their jets in mid-air . The medical problems encountered with ejection can be classified as follows : Injuries from the emergency that causes ejection -- fire or collision . Canopy jettison : burns from " MDC splatter " and cuts from fragmented plastic . For these reasons , aircrew are always advised to wear their visors down , to protect the face . Firing of ejection gun : spinal injuries . Entering airflow : wind blast may cause lung damage ; seat tumbles at variable speed , which may be as high as 180 rpm . ( All seats have a drogue parachute or deployable aerodynamic panels to prevent tumbling ) ; flail injuries to extremities . Parachute deployment : snatch injuries . Landing : lower limb injuries .
I 'm no expert , but I can think of two general reasons : risk of incapacitation , and general physical limitations ( reaction speed , stamina , the ability to maintain concentration for extended periods etc. ) . The age 65 limit only applies to part 121 ATP pilots , by the way ; you can still be a commercial or private pilot for as long as you can keep getting a valid medical . Older people are simply at <URL> and many other medical conditions , and they 're also much more likely to require medication that may not be approved by the FAA or other national authorities . Of course that does n't mean that every older pilot is the same but I guess that the FAA has decided that since the risks increase with age , at some point they become unacceptable . To understand the specific reasons for that decision you would probably need to dig up the original <URL> or transcripts of the public debate/hearings , but I have no idea if that 's possible or not . Then the other aspect is general physical and mental condition . They both deteriorate with age , and the NTSB sometimes <URL> as a potential factor in accidents : On the day of the accident , the pilot had flown several formation sorties . The day was hot , and the formation activities were demanding . The accident flight was relatively long , and the co-owner of the airplane guessed it was about 45 minutes long . Most formation sorties were 30 minutes or less . The accident pilot was in his early 70s and was by far the oldest member of the flight . Due to the pilot 's age , the demanding schedule , and the length of the formation sorties , fatigue could have been a factor , although it could not be conclusively determined . Of course , any discussion like this is a generalization and I 'm sure it 's easy to find individual 70-year old pilots or controllers who are ' sharper ' than younger ones ( after all , experience counts for a lot too ) . But there 's no escaping the overall pattern that older people in general are more prone to medical issues and less physically/mentally capable than younger ones , and at least one US court <URL> that there 's no effective way to determine individual risk so a general rule is not discriminatory : The court also concluded that ExxonMobil had established , through the testimony of several medical experts , that the risk of sudden incapacitation in flight significantly increased with age , and that there are no adequate means of individually testing each pilot to determine whether a pilot was at risk to suffer such an incapacitation .
Probably not . Depending on how poor your planning was ( or appeared to be ) you may have nothing happen , have letter placed in your file ( not a violation ) , receive a violation , have to make a 709 ride with a Fed , or have your cert suspended , or maybe even a combination of some of these . If you were a real goober and just went flying without checking fuel , and then lied about checking fuel , and then get caught lying to federal investigators then , yeah , revocation is a realistic possibility . They do n't like liars . They can deal with stupid mistakes , but they will not tolerate a liar . / / thanks for the edit but was written as a runon / /
As <URL> you do n't necessarily pull a flap on airplane seatbelts -- Sometimes ( particularly in newer light GA planes from the 1990s and on ) you push a button just like you do in a car , other times it 's the " utility buckle " ( flap buckle ) - sometimes with a shoulder harness attach peg or other attach mechanism , and sometimes you 'll find rotary buckles , where you turn a knob to release the belt ( particularly common in aerobatic aircraft , with 4-point or 5-point restraints ) . I 've attached a little gallery of belt types below ( and this is n't even complete - military aircraft hafe some downright funky buckles ! ) . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> This variety is why the FAA requires flight crew to instruct passengers in the operation of the seat belts . So , why are the belts in airplanes different ? And why are there so many types ? Each belt is good at something different , and each belt has its own set of drawbacks . The automotive style push-button belt is very familiar to infrequent flyers . Most people who are going to get on a plane have been in a car ( they probably rode in one to the airport ) , so familiarity with automotive-style seatbelts can generally be assumed . This is great when you take someone for a flight who is n't a frequent airline passenger . The drawback to the automotive belt is it 's not as easy for rescuers to operate , and the push-button mechanism can jam - particularly in fires where the plastic shell can melt/fuse ( in cars the belts are often cut by rescuers because it 's easier/faster than dealing with the button ) . If your passengers are injured in an emergency and ca n't operate the belt it may be difficult for you to locate and press the button to assist in evacuation . The " utility buckle " flap belt is easy for rescuers &amp; cabin crew to operate . The exact opposite of the push-button belt 's chief drawback : It 's really easy for cabin crew or rescurers to find a utility buckle on a belt by feel and yank the flap to release it ( try it some time : Buckle someone into an airplane seat , close your eyes , and find/release the buckle . The hardest part is finding the belt if they 're wearing bulky clothes ) . It 's also relatively hard to jam a utility buckle , and relatively easy to inspect them to determine if they 're damaged . The drawback to the utility buckle is that not everyone has been on an airplane ( or in a really old car that uses them ) , so they might not be familiar with " Lift the flap to release the belt " , and in a panic situation it may take them a few seconds to remember what to do . The rotary buckle is unique and kind of awesome for what it 's built for . Rotary buckles make it easy to attach 4 or 5 point restraints , and to release all or part of them quickly . ( The buckle shown in the photos is single-function - turn to release - but dual-function buckles exist where you can press the button in the center of the buckle to release the shoulder straps , or turn the knob to release everything . ) The big drawbacks to rotary buckles are their novelty : On the ground you usually only find them on 5-point racing harnesses , and in the air they 're pretty uncommon too ( mainly aerobatic aircraft as I mentioned earlier ) . They 're probably the last type of buckle a passenger or rescuer would expect to have to deal with , and particularly with the dual-action buttons they can present a challenge in a panic egress ( passengers will hit the button and release the shoulder harnesses , but they 're still restrained by the lower portion of the belt - this can cost precious time for them to realize they have to turn the knob ) .
Generally , you call the <URL> at the airport . They are often listed in the <URL> or if you want a digital source , <URL> has them . If you use <URL> , they will also list many of them . They will also provide you with fuel information as well as anything else you may need to know about the airport . At smaller airports , you may be limited to a single FBO . At larger airports it 's usually worth to talk to all of them ( depending on your needs ) since there can often be large differences in prices . It should be noted that some FBO 's may waive ramp fees if you purchase some minimum quantity of fuel . Some airports may also charge landing fees ( which you will pay through the FBO ) . When I flew out of KPNE there was a $ 5 a day landing fee ( as many TO/LD as you wanted ) . Pro Tip : the internet is riddled with forums and user groups these days . You may find that a simple " Hey thinking of flying into XXX next weekend " will return you a gaggle of information about the airport and what to do . If you are really lucky , someone may even offer you a spot in their hangar ( if they have room ) .
The pilot does n't retract the spoilers until the airplane has slowed down considerably , at the speed it 's traveling at that point the spoilers would be adding no benefits so there 's no point keeping them deployed .
Rotating the propeller of the Cessna 441 Conquest II is to cool the <URL> engine in the aircraft . From <URL> On the Garrett TPE331 's we were trained to spin the props after shutdown to get cooling air flowing through the engine , this was done right after shutdown . Half an hour after we did the prop spins we had go back out to the aircraft and rotate the propellers one blade width . Moving the prop one blade width rotated the engine one half turn , this was to prevent the shaft from sagging as the engine cooled causing turbine blades to rub . The reason is given as : Direct drive turbo prop engines sometimes require this to remove residual heat from the engine because once the prop stops turning , so does the engine . When the pilot turns the prop , depending on the gear ratio , he is actually spinning the engine very fast . This helps move some of the heat out of the engine .
Pilots do encounter UFOs all the time . I just want to emphasize that UFO means " Unidentified Flying Object " - something which is flying , and which the pilot can not identify . It does not mean an alien craft . The guidelines for pilots are as follows ( <URL> ) : 7-6-4 . Unidentified Flying Object ( UFO ) Reports a. Persons wanting to report UFO/unexplained phenomena activity should contact a UFO/unexplained phenomena reporting data collection center , such as Bigelow Aerospace Advanced Space Studies ( BAASS ) ( voice : 1-877-979-7444 or e-mail : Reporting@baass.org ) , the National UFO Reporting Center , etc. . b . If concern is expressed that life or property might be endangered , report the activity to the local law enforcement department . Air traffic controllers have the following guidance under <URL> : 9-8-1 . GENERAL a. Persons wanting to report UFO/unexplained phenomena activity should contact a UFO / unexplained phenomena reporting data collection center , such the National UFO Reporting Center , etc. . b . If concern is expressed that life or property might be endangered , report the activity to the local law enforcement department . The question " Was it of the E.T. kind " is beyond the scope of this site . This subject is , let 's just say , suitably covered by other sites on the Internet at large . One notable example of a UFO report is the <URL> . For other examples , a Google search for " <URL> " offers some decent results . " <URL> " even links to some recordings of pilot UFO reports to ATC . Some objects commonly reported ( genuinely ) as UFOs are spacecraft , fast or high-flying military aircraft like the U-2 or the SR-71 when it was in service , rocket launches , weather balloons , kites , errant helium balloons from kids ' birthday parties , flocks of birds , con trails , and lightning storms . Any of these and more can easily look , under the right circumstances , to a pilot like a " UFO . " The closest experience I 've had in my flying history to a " UFO " happened at night , during a landing approach in the midwest U.S. I was on a downwind leg when a very bright light appeared above me in the center of the windscreen , and rapidly moved downward toward the horizon . It scared me half to death ; my instinctual thought was that it was the landing light of another plane descending on top of me . It turned out to be a meteorite . It only took me a second or two to figure it out , but boy did it get my adrenaline up ! There was no need to report it though . Culturally , pilots are generally apprehensive about reporting UFOs , out of fear of sounding like a lunatic or unhinged conspiracy theorist and being laughed at . Nonetheless , reports are not uncommon .
Aerodynamically , you want the aspect ratio to be as high as it can be ( for a given wing area ) . You want infinite wingspan , because that results in no induced drag . But that is not very practical at airports , and a bit heavy . Structurally , you want short stubby wings because they have a very low bending moment . In fact structurally , you want zero wing span . But that is not very practical at take-off time . As always , aerodynamic desirability implies structural objections , and vice versa . The aerodynamicists need to strike a deal with the structures engineers : a balance needs to be found . As long a wing span as possible , with as thick a profile as possible , using a material that is as light as possible . So a long wingspan is desirable and is only limited by structural constraints : as you say , at a certain point the longer wing span 's increased weight will offset any aerodynamic advantages . In aluminium , the optimum was reached over the course of a few decades . But now there is a new material with a better strength/weight ratio : composite carbon fibre . Carbon is much stronger than aluminium , and it is woven in a matrix of resin , with most wires running in the direction of highest stress . With carbon fibre , even the direction of material strength can be optimised . And the B787 and A350 have even higher aspect ratios than the B777 .
First off , very rarely will you shoot at an unidentified aircraft . Most engagements require a visual ID , or a hostile action , prior to engagement . However , you will also program your aircraft with specific ROE logic that will indicate that certain aircraft are friendly , as identified by IFF transponders , Link 16 , etc. . You can still lock up friendly aircraft , and we frequently do to facilitate rendezvous with friendly aircraft and to clear ourselves from traffic , but if your master switch goes to ARM and you have a friendly locked up , there 's a good chance you wo n't be flying again for awhile , if ever . When we lock up an aircraft , 99 % of the time , it does not indicate an intention to shoot . By using our radar and " locking up " a target we get target aircraft altitude , speed , range , target aspect , heading , $ Vc $ , etc , all useful things that come in handy for routine events .
If the aircraft can be economically repaired ( there is no major structural damage , and we 're not talking about an aircraft already scheduled to be retired ) then it 's likely the aircraft will be repaired and returned to service . When you spend several million on an aircraft you are n't going to throw it away for a few tens or hundred thousand dollars worth of damage , particularly as it 's probably insured . If the aircraft is structurally compromised to the point where repairs would not be economical ( or if we 're talking about an older aircraft which has given many years of service and is due for retirement ) it would probably be written off and scrapped for any salvageable parts ( either repairing it to a condition where it could be ferried to a " <URL> " or dismantled and cut up at the accident site - whichever option is less expensive for the airline ) . As one particularly famous datapoint , the <URL> had an off-airport landing with a nose gear collapse in 1983 . The aircraft was repaired , returned to service , and flew until 2008 ( a little under 25 years of additional service after its incident ) .
In the US , you 'll need to be 16 old to start training and 17 to get your Private Pilot 's license in a piston-powered aircraft . To get your license you 'll have to have a minimum of 40 hours total time , including at least 20 with an instructor and 10 solo . You will also have to pass a written test , and get a Medical certificate . Details : If you 're pursuing a Private Pilot license , per 14 CFR § 61.83 ( a ) or ( b ) you must be 16 years old to get a student pilot certificate ( or 14 years old if you 're going to train in a balloon or glider . ) NOTE : 14 CFR mean Code of Federal Regulations , Title 14 - Aeronautics &amp; Space . § 61 . ## means " Part 61 " which covers Certification of Pilots and Instructors . To start training you will also have to pass a medical exam for a 3rd Class Medical Certificate , per 14 CFR § 61.23 ( a ) ( 3 ) . If you 're generally healthy , getting a 3rd Class Medical is n't terribly difficult . Assuming you successfully complete the training , per 14 CFR § 61.103 ( a ) or ( b ) you can get your Private Pilot license for an airplane at 17 years old ( or 16 years old for a balloon or glider . ) Per 14 CFR § 61.109 ( a ) to get your license you will need to have completed at least 40 hours of flight time , including at least 20 hours of time with an instructor and 10 hours of solo time . However , many pilots take more than the required minimum 40 hours to get their license . My suggestion is to try to complete your training in as short a calendar time as is possible . By taking lessons frequently ( more than once per week ) you will minimize the amount of " repeat " lessons , which will help you get your license with fewer hours . If you 're only taking a lesson every few weeks , you will end up repeating topics and spending more than the required 40 hour minimum . Per 14 CFR § 61.35 , you will have to complete a ground school program ( can be with an instructor , or a " home study " course ) before you take the Knowledge test ( aka : written exam . ) Per 14 CFR § 61.109 ( a ) ( 3 ) , you will need at least 3 hours of " Instrument " flight training to get your Private Pilot license . That 's really not intended to be enough for you to fly safely on instruments , but to give you a basic set of skills to get out of a low-visibility situation . If you keep up with your flying , getting in Instrument rating is a GREAT idea , once you have enough hours . You can look up the specific wording of all of the rules at <URL> Another good resource for student pilots is the Aircraft Owner 's and Pilot 's Association 's Learn to Fly page <URL> .
The idea that missiles will be all a fighter aircraft needs was prevalent in the late Fifties . The <URL> Phantom II carried initially only missiles , but at the start of the Vietnam war this turned out to be inadequate . The long-range missiles back then were rather unreliable , and in a real conflict things turn out always different than anticipated . As <URL> said , the plan is the first casualty of war . F-4s frequently found themselves in close-combat situations for which they were inadequately prepared . Even today , a gun gives the pilot a lot more options , and if the situation is unclear , close-up visual inspection before shooting is still vital to avoid <URL> . From the F-4C on , F-4s were equipped with a gun .
end question
start question
What happens when a takeoff clearance is cancelled by the ATC ?
What happens in the control room ? Aborting a take-off at high speed is dangerous , even if the aircraft is travelling below V1 . If the aircraft is already rolling , the controller will make a quick decision whether the situation justifies an aborted take-off . For example , if there is traffic infringing the runway and a crash is imminent the controller would attempt to stop the aircraft . If an aircraft is attempting to take-off from a taxiway in snowy conditions it might be safer to just let him take-off unless there is other traffic on the taxiway . If the aircraft has n't started rolling the decision is of course easily made . What does the ATC do and how does he/she make sure pilots understand the cancellation ? Using standard phraseology is the best way of making sure the message comes across , especially in international aviation . If the aircraft is not yet rolling , the proper ICAO phraseology is : Tower : Big Jet 345 hold position , Cancel take - off , I say again cancel take - off ( due to vehicle on the runway ) Big Jet : Holding , Big Jet 345 If the aircraft already started rolling the controller would say : Tower : Big Jet 345 stop immediately , ( Big Jet 345 stop immediately ) ! Big Jet : Stopping , Big Jet 345 No immediate verbal reply is to be expected as the flight crew have other things to care about at that moment . The effect of their actions should be clearly visible from the tower . How do the pilots in the aircraft taking off respond ? Are they trained for this scenario ? The crew will assess whether they can stop safely . Below V1 , they will probably abort the take-off , above probably not . The final judgement is made by the captain . He might reason that it is safer to get airborne and pass the infringing traffic overhead than running into it at full brakes . They are trained for aborted take-offs , but since there are so many non-standard situations the final decision is made on the basis of a mix of training and expert judgement . Is a takeoff cancelled even after V1 ? Since ATC does not know when the aircraft passes V1 , a controller might attempt to cancel the takeoff after V1 . The flight crew will only attempt to cancel the take-off after V1 if it is clear that there is no way the aircraft can become - and stay - airborne safely . In such a case it becomes damage control rather than damage prevention .
One particular example I can recall is Extra 330 . Modification with electric engine have been built ( Extra 330LE ) keeping the rest of the aircraft quite similar to the original petrol-engine version as far as I know . According to <URL> electric version was measured to produce 14.5 dB less noise compared to the combustion engine aircraft . Maybe you can try too look for other combustion engine aircraft converted to electric without making other significant modifications ( I am not aware of any other than this Extra 330LE though ) as a source for data you are looking for .
If all else is equal , an increase in temperature will result in a decrease in density of air molecules . To fly , a wing leverages these molecules , so the aircraft will need to fly faster to generate the same lift . Therefore the takeoff and landing distances are increased . Engine performance is also impacted . Most engines outside of NASA breathe air and so perform better when that air is dense . Jet engines also have a maximum exhaust gas temperature they can withstand , and in very hot temperatures the amount of thrust they produce needs to be lowered so as to not exceed that value . This is the basic premise of how Airbus ' assumed temperature ' works , where the pilots tell the engine that the temperature is hotter than it actually is , so the FADEC automatically caps the thrust .
There are contingency measures for PF incapacitation when PNF is absent from the cockpit . This includes measures for cockpit decompression ( e.g. window breaking ) These measures are balanced with measures to prevent unauthorised passengers forcing entry to the cockpit , including by using force on cabin crew ( or PNF ) to make them open the cockpit door . Some of these measures are at the airline 's discretion . Cockpit door locks According to <URL> A locked door is opened by a flight crew inside the cockpit but can also be unlocked by cabin crew entering a keycode from the outside . Crew inside the cockpit can manually override it to keep a door locked for up to five minutes . " In the case of an electrical supply failure the door is automatically unlocked , but remains closed , " reads the manual . It is equipped with a manual escape hatch but that is only accessible from the inside . According to <URL> safety protocols mandated by Congress in the U.S. after the Sept. 11 attacks ... eliminate the use of keys for entering the cockpit - assuring that no errant passenger can wrestle a key away from a crew member . ... If a member of the flight crew does n't open the locked cockpit door from the inside , according to a manual for the Airbus A320 <URL> , the door can also be unlocked by the cabin crew outside the cockpit by entering a two - to seven-digit code , pre-programmed by the airline , on a keypad . Cockpit occupancy Guardian : Protocols and standard procedures around what happens when a pilot leaves the cockpit mid-flight vary according to country and airline . A flight attendant taking the seat of an absent pilot to ensure there are always two people in the cockpit , and/or blocking access to the open door with a trolley , are often seen on US flights , but not necessarily on others , [ Aviation expert Neil Handsford ] said . For instance it is not a requirement on Australian flights . LA Times : American experts say the typical procedure is for a flight attendant to use a food cart to block access to the cockpit when the pilot opens the door to leave . A flight attendant is supposed to remain in the cockpit and open the door for the pilot upon his or her return . ... Airbus Manual The Airbus manual referred to above says The Cockpit Door Locking System ( CDLS ) provides a means of electrically locking and unlocking the cockpit door . This system is mainly composed of : A keypad , located in the forward cabin , near the cockpit door , A toggle switch , located in the center pedestal 's Cockpit Door panel , A control unit and its CKPT DOOR CONT normal panel , located on the overhead panel , A buzzer . The keypad enables the cabin crew to request access to the cockpit . There are two different access request types : " Routine " and " Emergency " access request ( Refer to PRO-SUP-25 Cockpit Door Operation - General ) . The toggle switch enables the flight crew to lock or unlock the cockpit door , following an access request , thereby allowing or denying the entry to the cockpit . The cockpit door control unit is the system controller , in charge of : Locking or unlocking the door latches , upon flight crew action . Unlocking the door , in case of cockpit decompression ( the door then opens towards the cockpit under differential pressure ) . Indicating system failures of electrical latches and pressure sensors . Activating the access request buzzer and turning on the keypad LEDs . The buzzer sounds in the cockpit for 1 to 9 s to indicate that a routine access request has been made , or sounds continuously if an emergency access procedure has been initiated . The keypad is used to sound the buzzer in the cockpit for 1 to 9 s ( 3 s by default ) , by entering a zero to seven-digit code , as programmed by the airline , followed by the ' # ' key . It is also used to enter the two to seven-digit emergency code , followed by the ' # ' key , when the flight crew does not respond . There is also an <URL> that shows how the cockpit door lock operates normally and in the case of pilot incapacitation Abbreviations PF = Pilot flying , PNF = Pilot not flying .
That would be an <URL> , a small jet engine that is used to provide power on the ground when the engines are off and when there is an emergency in the air .
These days , with digital recording , it 's likely that nothing special happens . " Mark the tape " is a holdover from when ATC recordings were actually on tapes - you could ask a controller to " mark " a tape to hold it and prevent it being recycled for another recording while your <URL> is being processed . ( Anecdotally I 've been told some facilities had tape rotations as short as 15 days , and a FOIA request letter could easily take longer than that to make it to the facility ) . Today much ( probably most ) of what is said on the frequency is recorded digitally , direct to hard drives , and kept around " essentially forever " as one of our local controllers put it when this came up at a recent event . Basically the virtual " tapes " stick around for as long as the facility 's recording machine has disk space to store them , and since audio files are n't that big facilities can store recordings a lot longer than they did in the days of tape . All that 's really needed to pull a record to review it with a controller/supervisor is the date , time , facility , and frequency ( and your aircraft callsign would probably be helpful too ) - e.g. " April 4 , 2014 - JFK Local Control for Runway 04R ( 119.1 ) - United 123 Heavy " . " Mark the tape and give me a phone number " survives as non-standard phraseology that lets the controller know that you will likely have a bone to pick with someone when you get on the ground and gives them the opportunity to tell their supervisor that an annoyed pilot will be calling the facility in the near future ( and hopefully give the supervisor time to listen to the tape ) . The useful part is really getting the facility phone number so you know who to call when you land .
Engine separation wo n't cause automatic closure of valves , but the resulting low pressure will illuminate lights ( including the Master Caution light ) on the panels and display messages on the displays . The pilots will have to react to the engine separation , the same way than for an engine fire or severe malfunction . This non normal procedure includes shutting down the fuel line by setting the engine start lever to CUTOFF or triggering the fire bottles on the affected engine . There is a spar fuel valve ( or fuel shutoff valve ) fixed to the wing and to the fuel tank , which stays on the wing in case of separation . This valve is to prevent leaks due to a broken line . As the hydraulic power may be missing after the engine damage or separation , the valve is controlled by an electric motor with a backup battery and a double wiring redundancy . Example on the the B737 NG : <URL> ( Shut-off valves framed in purple , <URL> ) Non-Normal checklist used : ( NNC 8.2 of the Quick Reference Handbook ) . <URL> ( Click to enlarge , <URL> )
Yes , I think you 're correct although the phrasing is unusual . The usual phrase is " clearance on request " , which is used for IFR departures as explained nicely in <URL> : Experienced instrument pilots know that when they call to request their clearance , the controller may not yet have received it . " Clearance on request " is ATC 's way of politely saying " I do n't have it - I 've requested it - you 'll be the first to know when I get it ! " The only FAA reference for the phrase that I could find is buried in the glossary of the <URL> : Clearance on request . An IFR clearance not yet received after filing a flight plan . But as RalphJ <URL> , if this is a VFR scenario and you needed a class B clearance and transponder code then I assume that the controller said " code on request " to let you know that he was waiting for a transponder code for you , as you assumed . It was n't an instruction as such so you could just acknowledge it with " Roger " or whatever . See <URL> for more information on that .
I 'm no expert but the <URL> can help answer your question . It was a stealth attack helicopter prototype . The Wikipedia page lists two main design elements : A five bladed rotor , the more blades you have , the slower they 'll turn , so less noise . Of course they are harder to balance , so it 's not cheap . Canted blades , kind of like winglets . They reduce the blade-tip vortices . The intricate shaping also is expensive , as the blades were 100 % composite . Sound proofing the engine compartment and muffling the exhaust can be expected as well . But that 's added weight .
Based on <URL> , the answer is yes . g. Deactivation means to make a piece of equipment or an instrument unusable to the pilot/crew by preventing its operation Collaring the circuit breaker prevents it from being pushed in , and therefore prevents its operation .
This short answer is that you could break something if you over torque the engine . And that 's really about all that we can tell you in general terms . The manufacturer or an engine repair shop could tell you what is most likely to fail for a particular model , but the failure modes wo n't be consistent from engine to engine . As far as what to do if you were to over torque one , refer the the aircraft flight manual . They will have a limitations section , and most airplanes will have " transient " limits in addition to the " normal " limits . For instance , the limitation could be 100 % , with a transient limit of 103 % for 10 seconds and 105 % for 5 seconds . If the transient limits are exceeded , then you ( or more likely a mechanic on your behalf ) would need to refer to the maintenance manual for instructions . Depending on the severity of the exceedance , it can be anything from simply logging it in the engine logbooks to a complete tear down and overhaul of the engine . I 'll also add that some pilots lean towards pretending that the exceedance never happened , and hope that nobody noticed . This is not a good idea for several reason , the main one being that something could have been damaged that is not immediately obvious . Even though things are running correctly now does n't mean that all is well , and if an inspection is required , it 's for a reason . Another issue is that a lot of modern engines are computer controlled and monitored . The next time that the computer information is downloaded , maintenance will see the exceedance anyway and if you have flown it since then you could be in even more trouble . In short , follow the AFM procedures for your airplane . They are there to help keep you safe !
Speed of a plane is actually measured in a number of different ways , and relative to different things . Here is a summary of the different types : Indicated Airspeed ( IAS ) . This is the number shown on the instrument that measures airspeed , and is n't really relative to anything . Rectified Airspeed ( RAS ) or Calibrated Air Speed ( CAS ) This is IAS corrected for known errors in the instrument and the measurement system . True Air Speed This is the speed relative to the air around the aircraft ; usually found by correcting the RAS for pressure and some other errors . Ground Speed This is the speed relative to the ground , or a fixed point on the earth ( ' imaginary grid ) . Its the vector addition of the True Airspeed ( and direction ) plus the wind speed ( and direction ) . In olden days this was estimated from the Airspeed and the wind velocity , or through dead reckoning navigation , but now it is trivially found from GPS or other navigation aids . Planes use different ones of these for different purposes . Measurements relative to the fixed stars are not generally useful until you are in the realm of space travel .
" Clearance Delivery " is exactly what you 've surmised it is - a frequency used on the ground to copy your initial clearance from ATC before you take off . The idea behind using a dedicated frequency for this is that it avoids tying up the ground control frequency ( used for authorizing ground movement on taxiways and such ) with long clearances and readbacks . Clearance Delivery is found at controlled fields . Pilots operating under Instrument Flight Rules will generally use it prior to each flight , and at airfields in class C or class B airspace it 's used by VFR pilots as well ( since they 'll be talking to departure controllers very shortly after take off until clear of the controlled airspace ) . At less busy fields Clearance Delivery is often staffed by the same controller working Ground ( e.g. at <URL> it 's usually the same controller working both positions ) , and at some airports clearances will be read over the ground control frequency when it 's not busy . At busier airports clearance is usually its own position - possibly with multiple frequencies ( e.g. at <URL> there is a separate clearance frequency for helicopters ) .
Passengers are counted before the plane leaves the gate . Since everyone 's boarding pass is scanned at the gate , they know how many passengers should be on board . If that number does not match , it may be a red flag that someone has sneaked out . The missing passenger can usually be located as using the lavatory , changed seat etc. . As a last resort , the passenger 's luggage is removed from the cargo hold for security . If things get to that stage , the flight is inevitably delayed for sure .
It 's all about making sure everybody knows what 's going on . While you are on an instrument approach and thus flying IFR , ATC is responsible for spacing you , giving instructions on heading and speed in order to fit you in with other inbound aircraft . In that situation they expect you to confirm and follow those instructions , and if you do n't it makes for a lot of headaches . If you 're on a visual approach , such as when you 've cancelled your IFR flight plan after descending below sparse clouds with the runway now in plain sight , then the tower knows not to give you spacing instructions ; they instead space IFR traffic around you , while other VFR traffic just has to maintain their separation minima from you . Knowing that you 're on a visual approach means ATC wo n't waste their breath trying to get you to adjust your airspeed , altitude or course to follow a traffic pattern ; they 'll just give those instructions to other aircraft in the pattern to maintain a steady traffic flow . ... unless you 're in Class B space . If you are flying into a Bravo airport , you can still request a visual approach , but approach control has to OK that change ( especially for airliners ) , and ATC is still required to provide separation services to you whether you 're VFR or IFR , so they can still give you instructions regarding your airspeed to make sure you fit into the IFR traffic pattern . This may , at times , require an uncomfortably fast landing for GA pilots being spaced in between commercial airliners at a busy time . Some Class Bs like Phoenix or DFW will have a runway more or less reserved for smaller aircraft so there 's less disturbance to commercial airliners with higher approach speeds , but not all airports have that luxury ; if you want to land your small single at O'Hare or Dulles , you 'll probably find yourself spaced in-between airliners and forced to very precisely time your approach so you can touch down and clear the runway in time for the plane behind you to take off . If traffic is heavy , you may not get in if you greet them with " Hello O'Hare Approach , Piper 354 Alpha ... " . As soon as the O'Hare controllers hear your GA small-prop callsign , if the pattern 's too busy they 'll deny you Bravo entry and recommend you head for a smaller airport like Chicago Exec or Gary .
<URL> that the pressure decreases over the wing . We can also assume that a particle of air travelling above a wing does it so fast that does not have the time to exchange energy with the sorrounding ones ( called <URL> ) We can now look at a pressure/volume diagram for an adiabatic process that goes from " high " pressure ( the free undisturbed air in front of the aircraft ) to low pressure ( the air on top of the wing ) : image <URL> ( currently unreachable ) As you see from the diagram , if you move along the Adiabat line from the top to the bottom , the temperature drops . If the air has already a temperature near the water condensation one and a high enough humidity , it will condense . From the Wikipedia article linked before : Adiabatic cooling occurs when the pressure on an adiabatically isolated system is decreased , allowing it to expand , thus causing it to do work on its surroundings . When the pressure applied on a parcel of air is reduced , the air in the parcel is allowed to expand ; as the volume increases , the temperature falls as internal energy decreases .
Try to search " Before Takeoff Checklist " . Manufacturer will provide standard checklist but airlines can modify it .
You have 3 questions : What exactly happens in the aircraft when disengaging the generators ? What benefit does it have to be not able to engage them again ? Is it only the B747 that works like that or also other Airliners ? What exactly happens in the aircraft when disengaging the generators ? As mentioned in the other answers : A solenoid removes a retention pin . This allows a spring-driven pawl to engage a worm gear on the drive input shaft . This causes the inner input shaft to disengage from the engine drive . Thus the generator drive rapidly coasts to a stop . <URL> Source : <URL> What benefit does it have to be not able to engage them again ? The primary reason to disconnect the generators is when some mechanical problem causes a risk of serious mechanical damage to them . From <URL> : Condition : Low IDG oil pressure or high IDG oil temperature . Crew Response : Affected GENERATOR DRIVE DISCONNECT switch PUSH . Note : This action prevents damage to the IDG . DRIVE DISC message is displayed . ELECT GEN OFF message is displayed . A lesser reason might be to prevent a seized-up generator drive from adversely affecting an otherwise operable engine . Since whatever caused the loss of oil ( pressure ) and/or overheating almost never can be corrected in the air , then there is no point in being able to reengage the generator drives in the air . Furthermore , to provide that capability would require complex mesh gears , clutches , and mechanisms that would add considerable weight and more points of failure -- all to cover a contingency that is both rare and very unlikely to be critical ( discounting sabotage ) . Is it only the B747 that works like that or also other Airliners ? Most large jet aircraft use some form of Constant speed drive ( CSD ) to power their electrical generators , as the alternatives are not well suited to the large electrical demands of jetliners . From Wikipedia , we see that <URL> .
During the 1990s I flew into countries on every continent except Antarctica . As an American English speaker flying U.S. registered airplanes , I never had a complaint that a controller had trouble understanding me , and I was always addressed in English by the controllers . Sometimes , though , I would have trouble understanding the controller 's accent and would have to ask them to repeat their instructions . As you mentioned , in some countries the controllers will address the pilots of that country in their native language . Personally , I always felt that compromised the smooth functioning of the system to a degree , because it denied a good bit of the overall picture of what was happening to the pilots who did n't speak that language . For example , if two airplanes preceding you are being rerouted for some reason , but you ca n't understand what they 've been given ( and which you 're probably going to be given ) , you 're not as prepared for the reroute when it comes through to you in English . Even if controllers spoke to you in English , they would typically pronounce place names and fixes as they are pronounced in the native language . My first flights in France were a real problem in this respect . The French controllers were speaking good and understandable English , but the French pronunciation of the place names did not match our English rendition of the names we were seeing ( and had never seen or heard before ) on the IFR maps ( no glass cockpits back then for us ) . In a couple of instances , we had to request that they spell the names , which did n't make us popular . On one occasion , when we made such a request , another pilot came on frequency and said , " He means ... " and gave us an English transliteration if you will of what the controller was saying . Interestingly , the worst time I ever had understanding a clearance was one from a nominally English speaking controller . We were talking to Scottish control , and received a reroute into Amsterdam from a controller with a very pronounced accent ( Glaswegian ? ) . All I was able to get was that at the end he was turning us over to Dutch control and the frequency . I went over to the Dutch , and asked for them to restate what our new clearance was , and I apologized , explaining that I had been unable to understand Scottish control . His first words were , " That 's okay , we ca n't understand them either . "
It 's the same thing , it changes only the point of view , see <URL> : for each action there is an equal and opposite reaction , i.e. to create thrust , the engine has to push air backwards . Pushing the air backwards means that the air is pushing you forward and this , in the reference system of the propeller blade , is lift .
end question
start question
What is the highest possible thrust generated by 15cm ducted fan ?
A 15cm diameter fan could maybe lift 4 KG of mass with a tip speed of 0.6 M. By increasing the power and the blade chord length ( in other words , increasing the solidity of the rotor ) , this may be increased to maybe 6KG or more , but a single fan would probably never lift more than 10KG mass . The thrust of a rotor is $ CT \ cdot \ rho \ cdot Area \ cdot tipSpeed ^ 2 $ . $ \ rho $ = air density ( 1.225 kg/m ^ 3 at sea level ) . $ Area $ = area of rotor disc ( m ^ 2 ) $ tipSpeed $ = the linear speed at the tip of the rotor = radial speed * radius . $ CT$ = coefficient of thrust . ( is usually in the order of 0.02 to 0.05 for small rotors ) Assuming $ CT$ of 0.03 , the calculation shows 40N ( = 4 KG ) thrust . Disc area is one of the most important parameters , even a 30cm disc would generate 4 times the thrust . 60cm would make almost 65 KG . Apparently , a 50cm diameter disc can possibly generate 45kg thrust on its own . So two of them could carry and maybe even lift-off a person equipped with this backpack ( the person + the system must be less than 90 KG ) .
The EUROCONTROL example you give , allows controllers from all member states to work in Maastricht Upper Area Control ( Netherlands ) and provide ATC over Belgium , ( part of ) Germany , Luxembourg and the Netherlands . Many of the controllers there are not from any of these four countries so they are foreign air traffic controllers . Also EUROCONTROL is only providing Upper Area Control above the four countries mentioned above . All member states have their own Air Traffic Control providers , some have more than one . Within EU countries ( note that not all EUROCONTROL member states are EU member states ) we have freedom of labour movement . So for EU citizens there should be no official barriers to work as a foreign controller in another EU member state . Apart from the intra-EU rules , some ATC organisation within the EU are open to applications from outside the EU . For example the Dutch Air Traffic Control Organisation LVNL is open to <URL> . Applicants are not limited to citizens of EU countries . ATC at airports is becoming a commercial business . The companies that you mentioned provide civil ATC at various airports around the world . Another example is ATC at London Gatwick Airport : the contract was <URL> . Outside the EU I know that there are many foreign controllers work in the United Arab Emirates . They are looking for <URL> at this moment as well .
The builders of an FDR must comply with <URL> ( the older <URL> may also be of interest here ) as per <URL> . These documents do not specifically define a data format but provide requirements for what it must be resilient against . Here is an <URL> that covers some of the topics you are asking about . Since most avionics use <URL> as their standard of communication some FDRs provide <URL> to record the avionics instructions at the time . I would assume these inputs dump the bus data right to the storage medium ( most likely solid state memory these days ) . Since the formats the device uses may be proprietary as well as very low level ( and memory efficient ) I am sure they make software to dump it to other formats . For example <URL> . After some more searching I found what may be the most comprehensive answer from this <URL> What Is a Data Frame ? A flight data recorder ( FDR ) data frame is the order of the words that are transmitted from the digital flight data acquisition unit ( DFDAU ) to the digital FDR ( DFDR ) each second over many seconds ( see ARINC 717 for additional information ) . Most FDR system data frames are made up of four subframes within one superframe . For a 64-words-per-second ( wps ) FDR system , a DFDAU will output 64 12-bit words to the FDR each second , where each word typically contains the value of an analog parameter . The order of the words ( for example , word number 12 of the 64 words ) within a subframe , as well as the order of the subframes , define an FDR data frame . This order is important to understand in order to decode the data recorded in the DFDR . It should also be noted although they may have all been phased out by now , some older cockpit voice recorders and FDRs recorded on analog mediums and may still be inservice doing so .
The inlets of supersonic aircraft routinely control ( reduce ) the Mach number of the engine ( at compressor inlet ) during flight . This is done using either a 2D ramp type inlet ( like Concorde ) or a center body ( like Mig-21 ) . These inlets convert the incoming supersonic flow to subsonic flow by forming shock waves in the path of the airflow . <URL> Source : sturgeonshouse.ipbhost.com In subsonic conditions , the inlets perform two functions : At cruise condition , diffusion of the free-stream flow to the compressor inlet condition . At takeoff , acceleration of static air to the compressor inlet condition . So basically , the inlet design can be optimized such that the Mach number is constant ( within some variation ) over the engine operational range . In your case , however , I think that it is a simplifying assumption made for the problem .
Estimations We can at least estimate a reverse thrust case based on some numbers and some physics , a bit of a specific case of <URL> . The stopping distance equation : $ $ d_f = \ frac { v_i ^ 2 } { 2a } $ $ The information <URL> for the 727-200 gives stopping distances for different cases . If we look at a sea level pressure altitude case with 120,000 lb gross weight , the stopping distance is 2452 feet . The correction for a reversers only case is 2.57 , bringing the distance to 6302 . At a landing speed of <URL> , the plane will take 11500 lb of force to stop in that distance . Each engine on the 727-200 provides 14500 lb of thrust force maximum . Considering that part of the stopping force will be provided by drag and surface friction , the reverse thrust is about 25 % of the maximum forward thrust . The reversers will be more effective at higher air speeds , so the maximum will be higher than this . Figure 39.5 <URL> shows a graph of reverse thrust compared to forward thrust for different bypass ratios and reverse thrust types . This is a good check for a general case . The GEnx-1B64 has a bypass ratio of about 10 , and reverses the fan but not the primary exhaust , which gives a ratio of 30 % of maximum forward thrust . Summary The engine will not run at full power when in reverse mode , so accounting for this and the bypass ratio will leave you with about states that modern thrust reversers can convert up to <URL> of their forward thrust into reverse thrust .
The list of approved maneuvers is in the POH , and I 'm sure the Lomcovak is not listed . If you are willing to do unapproved maneuvers , the issue is that because the aircraft tumbles rather than flies in this maneuver you have a few things to worry about : it starts with an outside maneuver , it is inverted , and the exit requires a high-speed dive which will exceed Vne or the +6 g the 152 Aerobat is rated for .
Turbofan engines do n't push all air through the combustion chamber . Instead part of it runs along the sides . <URL> This bypass region is where the ( cold ) air stream is redirected from to create the reverse thrust .
Does the position of the controls for the second motor really influence the behaviour of the first one ? No , it influences the activation of various other systems like the autothrust , the airbrakes , as well as the thrust reversers . how it is more efficient ? Because in the new procedure the engine with non-functioning reverser starts to spool up before the system realizes the reverser did not deploy and cuts it again , so for a moment it produces forward thrust . The old procedure avoids this .
Yes , I have personally worked on multiple aircraft that were infested by animals . All of these aircraft were small planes , single engine Cessnas for example . A typical example would be one or two small mouse nests in the wings . I also found at least one wasp nest in an aircraft wing . The worst I ever saw was a Mooney that had extensive mouse nests throughout the airframe . That aircraft had been unairworthy for at least a year by the time I saw it . That Mooney ended up being parted out and scrapped , largely because of extensive corrosion in the wings which was either caused by , or aggravated by , the mouse nests . Urea can induce corrosion in aluminum , and finding a mouse nest or other evidence of rodent activity should prompt closer inspection . All the other instances of mouse nests that I have found in airframes were in aircraft that flew several hundred hours a year and these did not suffer any major damage . I have also heard stories from many pilots and mechanics of finding birds nests -- for example in engine intakes or the empennage -- and of rodents chewing into or through electrical wiring . There is also the classic warning to check the pitot tube in case a mud wasp has clogged the intake with a nest . I have never witnessed any of these occurrences myself . The mud dauber wasp is notorious and is suspected of being a contributing factor in at least one fatal airline accident that I am familiar with : <URL> . <URL> Photo <URL> , courtesy of the FAA Many means of prevention are available , including typical pest prevention methods such as traps and poisons -- in my experience all reserved for use in the storage hanger . The most aviation specific forms are the various covers used to protect <URL> , <URL> , etc. . <URL> Photo <URL> , courtesy of the FAA As far as the possibility of animals surviving , I suppose the odds are low . I have never encountered a live animal in an airplane ( pets excepted ) . For any animal stowing away on a pressurized aircraft operating at high altitude I should think the low oxygen partial pressure and temperature would both discourage survival outside the pressure vessel . Some flights , particularly international ones , apparently make a practice of spraying some form of pesticide in the cabin to kill mosquitoes and other unwanted creatures .
You ca n't control the radio volume separately for the passengers but you can control the intercom volume separately . If the passengers ' headsets have individual volume controls you can ask them to turn down the volume and you can then compensate by turning up the passenger volume for the intercom . That way the overall intercom volume will be about the same but the radio/ATC volume will be lowered . If all else fails , you could turn off the radio completely for your passengers :-)
There are 4 classes of cargo compartments listed in <URL> for transport category airplanes . The main concern with in-flight access is in regards to fire safety . Class A : Crew will easily discover fire from their station ( and therefore be able to suppress it as well ) Class B : There is a fire/smoke detection system , and access for crewmember to use a hand fire extinguisher Class C : There is a fire/smoke detection system to alert the crew , and a fire extinguishing/suppressing system installed Class E : For cargo-only aircraft ( no passengers ) : There is a fire/smoke detector , and a way to shut off air flow to the compartment So basically , there has to be some way to both detect and address a cargo fire . Class A compartments are those such as in the cockpit where a detection system is not necessary . It sounds like the ATR example would be Class B , since they had a fire indication , and the crew had access to extinguish the fire themselves . In larger planes with cargo in the lower hold , the compartments are usually Class C , so they have a detection system and a suppression system , and in-flight access is not required . As <URL> notes , the compartment may be accessible , but that does n't mean that crew could effectively locate or fight a fire in those areas . Especially for large cargo holds , a fire suppression system installed througout the hold is much more effective than crew members gaining access at certain locations . This also provides the benefit of isolating the main cabin from the fire extinguishing agents . Besides fires , there are <URL> where cargo compartment access could be helpful . But even in that case , it was better for the plane to just come back and land to access the cargo compartment .
The best data I could find is in <URL> , which has data for US airports in 2014 . Based on my reading of the chart on page 14 and some conversion : Comparing this to the <URL> , it is interesting to note that LAX and JFK use significantly more fuel than KATL , despite passenger traffic figures ranked the other way . Also notable is Anchorage showing up here right after DFW , while MIA and ANC are the only ones not in the top 10 by passengers , showing up at 11th and 58th , respectively . Figures for other countries have been harder to find . <URL> estimates the Dubai International usage at 24.2 million barrels that year , which has certainly grown since then . <URL> lists their consumption at 73.9 million barrels , and half of this figure would be in line with the other numbers available . I found a <URL> , listing it at 20-25 million liters per day , depending on season , which gives a range of 61.2 to 76.5 million barrels per year , well ahead of the US airports . Becoming even fuzzier , the pipeline to Narita Airport in Tokyo transported <URL> , which averages out to 36.3 million barrels per year .
A <URL> mentions that the UK borrowed the numbering system from the US . I believe the magnetic headings were adopted by the RAF in the UK early in 1944 and were inspired by American practice . Prior to that , RAF runways were numbered clockwise from north . From the <URL> on page 515 from the snippet view ( unfortunately ca n't find a fully scanned version ) there 's mention of a plan based on recommendations to number the runways . <URL> This is confirmed by <URL> : <URL> So the when is circa 1943 , the who is US Department of Commerce . It caught on by regulation based on recommendations . Naming runways north-south or 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 were probably very confusing as the number of users grew .
This call serves two main purposes . The first is to verify that both airspeed indicators are showing the same speed . Since airspeed = life , it 's best to find out that one of them is faulty on the ground rather than in the air . The second purpose is to distinguish a high-speed rejected takeoff from a low-speed one . Below 80kts ( or 100kts or another speed set by the manufacturer and/or airline ) , a takeoff would be rejected for almost anything out of the ordinary . But rejecting a takeoff at high speed carries a lot of risk - like brake fires , tyres exploding , directional control difficulty , etc. . So above 80 or so knots , a takeoff will only be rejected in the case of major failures . Some modern aircraft even inhibit minor warnings from appearing after 80kts until the aircraft is airborne , because rejecting the takeoff is not worth the risk , so do n't saturate the pilots with unnecessary information . <URL> goes into some detail about what you would reject a takeoff for at low speed vs high speed . The criteria may vary slightly amongst airlines but the general themes are the same .
The reasons presented at ground school for the benefits of de-rated thrust takeoffs were twofold : less chance of catastrophic engine failure during takeoff less overall wear between overhauls It is from this standpoint that reduced thrust takeoffs are safer . As you point out , these are only authorized when the weights , temperature and runway length allow , but for the EMB-145 virtually every takeoff we did was eligible for reduced thrust . You point about ease of control with an engine out is countered by engine out procedures which involve setting max thrust on the remaining engine ( for two-engine ops ) . During takeoff roll in the EMB-145XR , this puts the other engine at 117 % power . With the exception of flying near $ V _ { MC } $ ( for light twins ) the extra thrust is a benefit and not a hindrance to control and if this is at or after $ V_1 $ you 'll want the thrust to go flying . Your question about a bird strike is going to go one of two ways : the bird hits the N1 fan and goes through the bypass ducting the bird hits the N1 fan and is ingested into the N2 compressor stages In either scenario a reduced thrust vs full thrust takeoff is not going to make a huge difference , but scenario 2 will be far more destructive to the engine than scenario 1 .
No , it is almost impossible . The only runway ( 06/24 ) Lukla Airport is just 1500 feet long . This <URL> lists some interesting facts : The topography of the place makes any go-around impossible . At the south , the runway is the end of an angled drop of about 2000 feet . This cliff is fenced off as a precautionary measure . At the northern end of the runway there is a huge mountain terrain . It leaves no room for error . A pilot mentions the same <URL> : " Because there is no way to go around again , we have to calculate many things like air speed , tail wind , fog . If you do n't do the proper calculation or proper exercise , then it ( an accident ) happens . " Planes land on runway 06 ( Heading 060 or ENE ) and takeoff from runway 24 ( Heading 240 or WSW ) . This picture shows the cliff on North : There have been several <URL> at this airport .
tl ; dr They 're pretty much all considered turbofans with a few exceptions from the '70s such as <URL> . They key difference is a prop can be considered a separate entity in a turboprop , but a fan is integrated into the engine . <URL> Slightly longer answer After a fair bit of thought and research I hope I 've managed to come up with an answer , though to start with a disclaimer . The aviation industry is far too fond of merging and creating new words to describe new engine architecture . Take <URL> for example . To get technical about it , you could look at the similar/reverse argument about the difference between an open rotor turbofan and a turboprop , <URL> . If you look at Appendix 1 : Open Rotor Definition ( Page 86 ) of that document they outlined the following key differences Open rotor module that can not be distinguished as a separate entity However the following was the agreed definition , which is still rather ambiguous . A Turbine Engine featuring contra-rotating fan stages not enclosed within a casing I think the first one is more key , the prop can be considered as a separate entity , attached to the front of a turbine . A fan is an integral part of the engine and can not really be considered a separate entity , as its usually a part of the actual turbine shaft and has functional turbine component passing through the middle of it .
Engine thrust is measured in flight by EPR - Engine Pressure Ratio . EPR is the ratio of the turbine exhaust pressure divided by the pressure measured at the fan or inlet . Indeed this is the measure used for a number of engines for setting thrust . More detailed airborne testing of engines is done during development , most manufacturers have airborne testbeds . The parameters recorded here probably measure in the hundreds or even thousands ...
The fenestron is a lot heavier than a free tail rotor . This is probably the main disadvantage ; helicopters are more sensitive to extra mass than aircraft . At the time <URL> was produced by joining Aerospatiale 's and MBB 's helicopter divisions in 1992 , a follow-on to the successful <URL> was under development . That was the <URL> . Immediately , development was stopped to implement a fenestron into the finished design in order to give all Eurocopter products a common , distinctive feature . This resulted in major structural changes and a heavier helicopter . The result is now known as the <URL> . From <URL> : The only significant drawback to ducted fans like the Fenestron is that the shroud adds weight that offsets at least some of the improvements in performance . As @Koyovis ' answer points out , the low position of the lateral thrust vector is also a clear disadvantage . See <URL> for more .
Modern Air Combat Maneuvering takes place between about 350 to 600 KIAS ; There is no specific speed but each aircraft has a specific optimal cornering velocity which gives it the greatest rate of turn in order to maximize its maneuverability . Pilots will seek to maintain this speed when entering a merge as it can give them the greatest maneuvering advantage in order to turn inside on opponent or for jinking to evade a cannon or a missile shot . As an example , the Lockheed Martin Block 50/52 F-16C has a cornering velocity of 420 KIAS . Traditionally air combat has been about energy management . Fighter pilots have something in common with economists in that they are engaged in the art of managing the flow of currency ; in the case of the pilot that currency is energy and not money . The total energy state of a fighter is : current energy state = energy in - energy out . The current energy state is the sum of the kinetic energy , proportional to the square of the velocity of the jet and the potential energy of the jet , which is proportional to its height above the ground . Energy leaves the system in the form of parasite and induced drag acting over a distance as well as loss of altitude , which is proportional to the flat plate area of the jet , load factor , AoA , etc. . Energy enters the system at a rate proportional to the amount of jet fuel burned ; this supply is limited to the fuel onboard which again affects the mass of the jet , the induced drag , etc. . So keeping this in mind , a good fighter pilot will seek a way in which he/she can maneuver through space , gaining the best speed and turning performance for the least amount of energy consumed , in order to land in an advantageous position to employ the weapons against an enemy jet . These kinds of speeds vary between if the jet is on the offensive or defensive in relation to a threat . So a pilot maintaining that optimal energy state is in the best position to attack , or defend against an attack , and a pilot in a very low energy state is very vulnerable - " low and slow , you 're outta dough " - and could be quickly killed in a multi-jet furball . The cornering velocity is preferred for this reason if maneuvering is anticipated ( a given if the jet is about to enter a merge ) . With the advent of terminal homing , beyond visual range missiles allowing pilots to stand off from the fight and shoot a threat before it could get close enough to turn with them , higher speed cruise , along with a capability to maneuver well at those higher speeds has become an advantage . It allows a pilot to more quickly close with an enemy aircraft into the missile 's ' no escape ' zone , fire , and then turn and dash from the threat , minimizing their presence in an enemy 's ' no escape ' zone whereby enemy missiles simple do n't have the available energy to catch you . This was the basis for supercruise - supersonic cruise without the use of afterbruners - on the ATF / F-22 program . Combined with good frontal stealth to minimize the detection range by enemy fighters , supercruise could give a Raptor jock a major advantage in the BVR areana - near invincibility in BVR engagements against non stealthy fighters , if the published results of the Red Flag and other military exercises are to be believed .
end question
start question
What is " detonation " in a piston engine ?
Detonation , as the name suggests , is an explosion of the fuel-air mixture inside the cylinder . Under normal operation , the spark plugs each ignite a point in the fuel/air charge , which then propagate through the cylinder and provides a consistent , regulated burn in a process called <URL> . This extends the time that the burning fuel pushes on the cylinder , providing a gentle power stroke . During detonation , the fuel/air charge ( or pockets within the charge ) explodes rather than burning smoothly . Because of this explosion , the charge exerts a much higher force on the piston and cylinder , leading to increased noise , vibration , and cylinder head temperatures . The violence of detonation also causes a reduction in power . Mild detonation may increase engine wear , though some engines can operate with mild detonation regularly . However , severe detonation can cause engine failure in minutes . Because of the noise that it makes , detonation is called " engine knock " or " pinging " in cars . ( Source : <URL> , page 6-18 ) Detonation can be caused by a number of factors , but generally they relate to a situation outside of the engine 's design . Using the wrong fuel can cause detonation : the octane rating of a fuel is basically the amount of pressure it can take before it detonates . Similarly , high cylinder temperatures can cause detonation ( 1 ) . This is why mixture is set very rich when at high power levels : the excess fuel cools the cylinders , preventing detonation . As noted above , full power with carburetor heat on can cause detonation , as the increased temperature mimics the effect of high cylinder temperatures . Full carburetor heat is required to provide at least a 90 degree F increase in intake air temperature . Further reading : Page 6-19 of the <URL> . An <URL> at Savvy Analysis 1 ) Detonation is distinct from pre-ignition , where the fuel/air charge is ignited by something other than the spark plug . Notably , detonation and pre-ignition often cause each other , as a detonating engine will have a very high CHT ( potentially enough to cause pre-ignition ) , and if the charge pre-ignites as the cylinder is still rising , the continued compression may cause the charge to detonate .
Wind direction mostly , planes take off best when facing in the wind as that means free airspeed so the takeoff roll is shorter . In busier airspace ( with multiple towered airports ) each airport coordinates the corridors so they do n't intersect depending on available runways , prevailing winds and relative demands on the airports . It is possible that it is dictated by noise abatement measures so night time flights pass over a nearby forest rather than wake up the capital .
So it appears that Diamond answered this question for me . See this page : <URL> <URL> From this chart , it would appear that the DA42 has a slightly higher accident rate , and of those accidents , even more are fatal ( which makes sense due to the higher speeds ) . Still loads safer that the SR22 though , and I 'd personally prefer the 42 over water as well .
One particular example I can recall is Extra 330 . Modification with electric engine have been built ( Extra 330LE ) keeping the rest of the aircraft quite similar to the original petrol-engine version as far as I know . According to <URL> electric version was measured to produce 14.5 dB less noise compared to the combustion engine aircraft . Maybe you can try too look for other combustion engine aircraft converted to electric without making other significant modifications ( I am not aware of any other than this Extra 330LE though ) as a source for data you are looking for .
The first pressurized aircraft were piston powered , beginning as early as 1921 with a modified Airco DH .9 A containing a pressurized enclosure for the pilot . Throughout the 20s and 30s , pressurization systems developed in reciprocating powered aircraft with benchmarks like the <URL> being the first pressurized aircraft using bleed air from its super chargers to pressurize the cabin and the <URL> , the first pressurized airliner . World War II saw plenty of pressurized pistons like versions of the <URL> and the <URL> , as well as the <URL> . Postwar airliners were also pressurized like the <URL> , the <URL> and the <URL> were all good examples of this . With the introduction of jets , these quietly faded into obscurity . There are a few pressurized piston single and twins in operation today , though manufacturers did not make very many . Probably the most successful pressurized single is the <URL> series introduced in the 1980s and still in production today , in bother the form of the reciprocating PA-46-350 Mirage and the turbine powered PA-46-500 and -600 Meridian . In the late 70s and early 80s a number of manufacturers attempted to enter the pressurized entry cabin class single engine market . Cessna offered a Pressurized version of the <URL> called the P210 which is no longer produced but still popular with GA pilots today . Mooney , after finding marginal success with its pressurized <URL> from the 1960s , decided to produce a pressurized six seat cabin class airplane called the <URL> . It was stillborn due to financial pressures from Mooney 's new owners but the best technology from it was cannibalized in a ill-fated partnership with Aerospatiale ( now Daher Socata ) in Tarbes France to produce a single engine turbine airplane which eventually became the <URL> ( TBM stands for Tarbes Mooney ) . Even a few homebuilt piston singles have been pressurized . <URL> , <URL> , and piston versions of their <URL> are all pressurized and capable of nearly 300 KTAS at FL250 . More piston twins have been pressurized as well . Cessna produced a pressurized version of the <URL> called the P337G , as well as the <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Piper produced the <URL> . Beech produced the <URL> as well as a variant of the <URL> called the B88 . Rockwell produced the <URL> .
On modern turbojets the bypass air provides ( at least ) two things Thrust The air does bypass the engine core , but it is accelerated by the N1 fan and provides thrust as it is expelled rearward out of the engine . Thrust from the bypass air can contribute more than half of the total thrust produced by the engine ( upwards of 80 % of the total thrust for some engines in certain phases of flight ) . Part of the reason the bypass air is so efficient is that much energy is extracted from the core exhaust to spin the high and low pressure turbines ( dual spool ) that drive the N1 fan and the N2 compressor stages . Engine cooling and noise reduction Cool bypass air can be mixed with the hot air that went through the core at the rear of the engine . This mixing cools the engine exhaust and reduces the jet engine noise resulting from the rapid expansion of that air once it leaves the engine . The cool bypass air flowing around the engine core can also be used for general engine cooling .
You have confused a turboprop engine with a turbocharged engine . They are very different and have very little in common . A turboprop engine is powered by a turbine engine geared to a propeller . Turbine engines have less power available at higher altitudes so answer " A " is correct . A turbocharged engine is a piston engine which is fitted with a small compressor driven by exhaust gas pressure . The compressor ( turbocharger ) can increase manifold pressure to restore sea level power at altitude . ( Turbo-normalized ) A turbo charger can also supply greater than sea level manifold pressure for more power . ( turbo-supercharged ) Both types of turbocharged piston engines can maintain full rated power as they climb , but they will eventually reach a limit where full power can no longer be maintained .
Some <URL> databases are <URL> and require a USB port . Since navigational databases are updated frequently and require a simple way to make an update , USB ( or memory card slots ) are generally used to allow for rapid and easy updates without having to remove any panels . In some cases the port may be in the avionics bay however that is usually easily accessed as well . It should be noted that a recent change in regulation now allows pilots to update nav data , <URL> . Was it really intended for charging devices like phones ? That seems naively insecure . Generally these ports are not for charging but the basic design of a USB port more or less always allows you to charge from it because of the nature of the port . The security on the ports is more about cockpit security . In most cases the security lies in making it difficult to get into the cockpit in the first place . It is often assumed now that if you are in the cockpit you should be there . There is of course many questions this opens up some of which have been answered here or would be good to ask about . As iPads become more common in the cockpit for navigation and the such USB ports are <URL> for charging but this seems to be more common in GA planes currently .
I find it hard to make a general answer since the fuel systems could be different between various aircraft , but , according to Jan Roskam 's Aircraft Design series ( I just had to return the book , but I think it 's Part IV in the series ) some model of the F/A -18 utilizes the following system which , in sustained inverted flight ( or any sustained flight condition wherein the aircraft does not experience a positive load factor ) , would eventually starve the engine of fuel . Keep in mind too that fuel is n't the only factor for sustaining this flight condition : oil flow through the engine is typically gravity fed ( reference for that is an engineer from Bell Helicopter who worked on the V-22 powerplant ) . Suction is used to scavenge the oil out of the engine/gearboxes/etc , but the flow of the oil up to a point where suction will pull it out is via gravity ( or whatever acceleration the aircraft is experiencing ) . Hence , not only do we need to provide fuel , but we also need to provide for proper oil flow as well . Anyhow , the F/A -18 fuel system . Again , I wish I had the image from the text to show you , but the basic idea is this : if you had a flop tube capable of scavenging from the entire fuel tank , it would engender more problems than it solved . Hence , inside of the primary fuel tank there 's a second , smaller tank . This tank has a series of poppet valves that allow fuel to flow into the inset tank during coordinated ( i.e. , positive load factor ) flight . When the aircraft is not experiencing a positive load factor , the pressure of the fuel on these valves holds them closed and the fuel stays within the inset tank . A short flop tube within this space provides fuel to the engines for the duration of the maneuver . However , as noted , this inset tank is only a portion of the larger main tank , so its capacity would be some fraction of the main tank , limiting the duration of the maneuver . So , to answer your question ( how does fuel starvation happen and why is n't it solved via a pump ) it 's a design problem that , per the printing of that text , could not be solved by adding capacity to the pump . There just simply was n't fuel present at the fuel sump to be scavenged . The real design problem would lie in the design of flop tubes capable of scavenging from the entire tank without creating more design problems ( an assumed point on my part ) . Examples , I think , would crop up if you decided to make a multiplicity of flop tubes ( larger pumps required , more parts , more complex plumbing , etc. ) , or longer flop tubes ( potential risk for damage to the tube head/tank with increased " flopping " inertia , larger pump required for greater head losses , etc. ) ... but I also do n't know what the current standard is .
No matter which kind of engine , you need some way to supply the engine with energy and you need some way to store that energy until you need it in flight . Short of going nuclear ( and there are some nontrivial engineering problems involved in designing a halfway safe nuclear reactor that you can put on a plane and keep it lightweight enough that flying it is n't pointless ) , chemical fuels for burning have the best available ratios of weight to energy stored . This is particularly important for aviation because more weight means more induced drag which means more thrust needed . Joule for joule , the efficiency of fuel-burning engines is not great , but the superior energy density of hydrocarbon fuel more than makes up for that and allows them to supply more useful thrust per kilogram of energy storage lifted than either batteries ( low losses , but very heavy ) or fuel cells ( medium losses , but require small-molecule fuel such as hydrogen or methane that still have markedly worse energy densities than kerosene ) . Since you speak about " exhaust gases " in the question , note that current aircraft derive at most a small fraction of their thrust from ejecting exhaust gases . Propeller planes do n't generally make use of the exhaust at all , and " jet " engines are practically always high-bypass turbofan engines where most of the energy from the combustion goes to drive the fan that blows intake air backwards without burning anything in it .
<URL> results from soot in the combustion gasses , so the carbon part of the hydrocarbon fuel was incompletely burned . The <URL> ( sorry , paywalled , but you can read the first page ) reports that in the first decades of jet engine design much combustor development was trial and error . Specifically , to arrive at a smokeless combustor , the <URL> team had to perform 465 modifications and 140 full engine tests . Mainly , these tricks help : Slow flow speeds by careful diffusor design at the compressor exit Swirling of the flow at the combustor entry to improve fuel-air mixing Measured inflow of air into the combustor , such that the fuel injection area has an essentially stoichiometric mixture for best flame stability . Then more air is added in a secondary and a third dilution region . This dilution helps to lower the gas temperature so the gas stream is palatable to the turbine . Longer combustors , so that 99 % combustion can be achieved at the end of the secondary region . Selecting the right fuel helps , too . If you would burn methanol or ethanol , a smokeless combustor is easier to achieve , but the <URL> of the fuel suffers . Lighter fuels with shorter hydrocarbon chains help , but are more expensive to produce and reduce energy density , so kerosene was preferred even if its combustion produces soot .
There are two primary modes of turbine blade failure , that can be predicted , and hence are used to determine the lives of turbine blades at which they need to be replaced . One is called <URL> . The Wikipedia article describes the basic mechanism . The life of the blade is purely a function of " time at temperature " . If the blades experiences flight time above critical material temperature limits , it accumulates a portion of creep fatigue . The total ( cumulative ) amount of creek fatigue is tracked , and when the blade hits that limit , it is removed and replaced with new blades . The type of algorithm used to measure creep life is called Robinson 's rule , and looks like this ( where c1 , c2 &amp; c3 are coefficients related to the relative damage that occurs at the associated temperatures ) : Total accumulated life = c1 x time above T1 deg + c2 x time above T2 deg + c3 x time above T3 deg . Typically , each stage in the turbine will have its own life . ( Each blade on the same stage is not individually monitored and lifed , but rather they are replaced as a set . ) Another failure mode is <URL> This is caused by changes in centrifugal stress , caused by rpm changes from throttle cycles . When the pilot moves the throttle a significant amount , large changes in stress occur . These cause the blade material to behave like bending a wire in your fingers back and forth to make it break ( you do n't break it by just bending it once , or pulling hard on both ends ) . LCF lives are counted in a similar fashion to creep , but rather than counting time spent above a temperature limit , throttle cycles are counted . A throttle cycle might be defined as a change in rpm from one specific value to another . If the engine is modern , the electronic control would count the creep and LCF lives consumed . If the engine is old , and only has a hydro mechanical control , the engine manufacturer will do an analysis on the type of flying the plane is expected to do , and determine the life limits in terms of flight hours . Periodically , they will try and confirm how the plane is actually being flown , and if the flight time before replacement needs to be shortened or can be lengthened . Generally , either the creep life or the LCF life is much shorter than the other , so only one failure mode is tracked for each engine stage . <URL> gives a good description of turbine blade failure modes , and how they are monitored . I doubt you get information on actual lives , that is likely proprietary to the engine manufacturer . The only info you might find is probably for very old engines that they do n't care about anymore . However , if you are lucky , you might finds some numbers burried in NTSB or other countries aircraft accident reports related to blade failure . There are also periodic bore scope inspections , that may cause blades to be replaced for unscheduled ( unpredictable ) failure modes ( FOD damage , coating loss , thermal distress ) as also mentioned in the above document .
I will talk from my experience as an A7E light attack pilot . It was always a frightening experience at any stage of flight . We had a turbofan engine , which is usually more forgiving to foreign object damage , or FOD , but nonetheless taking a bird of any size in the intake would almost certainly cause an engine failure . And taking a bird hit through the canopy was n't much better . So , it can be a catastrophic event in certain aircraft , while rather benign in others . Was in the front seat taking off on a training hop , and had wheels in the well , when we passed through a large flock of birds at the end of the runway . We were at around 500 feet AGL . It was mesmerizing . As you approach a bird that is above you it will instinctively tuck its wings and dive to get out of your way . So as we flew through the flock there were birds co-altitude with us veering left and right and then the birds above us diving close past the canopy . Miraculously we were not hit . The other experience I have with a bird strike was when I was in the fleet rolling in on the target . I was in a tight right-hand descending turn . I was clearing the left side of the aircraft , looking over the canopy rail when I saw a speck on the canopy . I remember thinking that , " Hey the plane captains are usually better than that at cleaning the canopy , " and then the speck turned into a Turkey Vulture . It impacted the fuselage a few feet behind the intake in the gun port . Luckily for me I was on a NATOPS Safety check flight and so was able to demonstrate my knowledge of a precautionary approach . The ordinance men who fixed the gun were not happy with me . They said the repair was quite messy .
The ignition requirements are pretty straight-forward : <URL> ( a ) Each battery ignition system must be supplemented by a generator that is automatically available as an alternate source of electrical energy to allow continued engine operation if any battery becomes depleted . ( b ) The capacity of batteries and generators must be large enough to meet the simultaneous demands of the engine ignition system and the greatest demands of any electrical system components that draw from the same source . ( c ) The design of the engine ignition system must account for -- ( 1 ) The condition of an inoperative generator ; ( 2 ) The condition of a completely depleted battery with the generator running at its normal operating speed ; and ( 3 ) The condition of a completely depleted battery with the generator operating at idling speed , if there is only one battery . ( d ) There must be means to warn appropriate crewmembers if malfunctioning of any part of the electrical system is causing the continuous discharge of any battery used for engine ignition . ( e ) Each turbine engine ignition system must be independent of any electrical circuit that is not used for assisting , controlling , or analyzing the operation of that system . ( f ) In addition , for commuter category airplanes , each turbine engine ignition system must be an essential electrical load .
Really depends on what you are flying , what 's growing , what season and what the roads are like . Our Cessnas have used gravel roads a couple of times , either due to problems aloft or at the airport ( bad weather ) . In the Alberta prairies finding a side road to land on is no problem whatsoever . 100 and 200-series Cessnas have fairly narrow fixed gear that can take an amazing amount of abuse , do n't know about other types . A real cornfield , with the corn fully grown , will destroy a light aircraft . The plants are 2-3m high with a hard , heavy log of corn at the top . Hit a couple of thousand of them at 100km/h ... ( Skydiving centers in corn country have firm advice for landing in the corn : keep your legs crossed . ) Ripe canola is also nearly 2m high and is a bushy plant interwoven with it 's neighbors . You 'll probably flip over forward . Wheat is the best choice .
Background : These days , Rolls-Royce is not any more in the business of selling engines , but <URL> . The engines send telemetry data to four centers , the biggest one in Derby , in Great Britain , where every engine is under surveillance . An inspection can be scheduled at or spare parts can be directed to the right destination even before the pilots or the airline know that one of their engines has a problem . By now , 80 % of Rolls-Royce engines are sold at a loss which is recouped by a hourly fee paid under the <URL> program , and that center in Derby is monitoring maybe 4000 of them at the same time . Rolls-Royce has accumulated a treasure of engine operations data , which enables it to consult airlines on best practices . This makes it very hard for a third party to steal maintenance business from Rolls-Royce . All maintenance cost is covered by the TotalCare fee which now accounts for more than half of Rolls-Royce 's revenue . Other engine manufacturers have begun to copy this approach , and both Airbus and Boeing now offer similar programs for airframe surveillance and maintenance to their customers . I wonder how Air France KLM can get at the data from the engines . My impression is that Rolls-Royce is in a different position , and third parties can not compete on an equal basis . Airlines can rent out their shop capacity to others , but the specific business model of Rolls-Royce is directly coupled to them being the manufacturer of those engines and owner of the data it creates .
There are no major differences between a turboprop used on an airplane and a turboshaft used on an helicopter . All power is collected by the turbine shaft which rotates the blades through a gearbox . An example of a gas turbine used in helicopter , airplane , train , and even snowplow is the well-known <URL> . It has different versions . The two versions shown below are the PT6A for a propeller ( top ) , and the PT6B for an helicopter ( bottom , with a large gearbox ) . Each sub-family has variant for different powers . ( <URL> ) ( <URL> ) On the two images , from right to left : The accessory box powered by the compressor section , the air intake recognizable by its filter , the compressor ( not visible ) , the combustion chamber ( yellow color on the bottom image ) with its circle of igniters , the turbine ( not visible ) , the exhaust ( the big hole , best visible on the bottom image ) , the power gearbox with different output shafts . There are different types for aero-engines , including turbojet , turbofan , turboprop and turboshaft ( I exclude the ramjet which is not used in civilian aviation ) . All types are based on a <URL> , but the way the turbine participates to the motion is different . ( <URL> ) While airplanes use all types , helicopters can not use the jet action/reaction principle ( tip jet excluded for simplification ) . The gas turbine can be the same for turboshaft and turboprop engines , but will be fitted with appropriate elements : The rotational speed of the shaft will be adjusted to accommodate the rotor or the propeller . This is done using a gear reduction system . An helicopter rotor turns slower than an airplane propeller . Air intake and exhaust are adapted . It rather common to have the air intake on the opposite side of the power output shaft . For a pulling propeller , this means the intake will be aft , and air must be collected forward and ducted to the engine intake . The power output shaft is usually used to bear the propeller tension caused by the lift , while on an helicopter , the rotor tension is borne by the frame . The accessory box is usually powered by the compressor side of the engine . A turboshaft do n't provide the bleed air extraction , there is no cabin pressurization required . ( <URL> ) Gas turbines used in both cases are frequently <URL> , where the compressor section and the turbine ( power ) section rotate independently of each other . This allows to produce electricity or hydraulic power on the ground without turning the blades .
The TBM 900 holds the title of <URL> for <URL> . It has a top cruise speed of 330 knots at FL280 . <URL>
No , these losses are well known and are called installation losses . Their reasons are : Intake losses . In a ground test the engine will be fitted with <URL> , but none of the long intake tubes which are common especially in supersonic aircraft . Generator loads : The <URL> to supply the aircraft with electricity . This can be simulated in a ground run , but often the generator load is higher in flight . Bleed air : Some of the compressed air inside the engine is piped to a <URL> for <URL> , or used for leading edge de-icing . Again , this can be simulated in the static test but sometimes bleed air losses are higher in flight . Interference between fuselage and power plant is only to be expected with fuselage-mounted engines . This can be both beneficial ( as in the <URL> and speed on the <URL> ) , or it can distort the flow when side-mounted intakes are operated at a high sideslip angle .
I believe what you are referring to is an acceptance flight , rather than a certification flight . Certification flights ( usually there many ) are flights which the manufacturer demonstrates to aviation authorities that a new design of an aircraft is safe . However , just because a design has been tested , does not mean a new aircraft is produced exactly to the design . Acceptance flight is a test flight which make sure the aircraft has been manufactured up to standard . Acceptance flights are also required after major maintenance work or avionics upgrades . Its purpose is to explore the entire flight envelope and ensure emergency / backup systems work as expected . During a normal flight , only a portion of the systems ' functions are used . A test flight is a complete evaluation of all conditions , such that malfunctions or deviations will not go unnoticed . Of course , the pilots will first examine critical systems ( e.g. engines , flight controls ) on the ground . Depending on the aircraft , the tests to be completed in the air include : Engine shutdown and restarts autopilot roll rates , flap extension speed , engine response etc. . Alternate gear extension Fuel jettison Over-speed warnings <URL> Ground Proximity Warning System ( GPWS ) Auxiliary Power Unit ( APU ) operation at high altitude Cabin service systems
end question
start question
Are CTAF and UNICOM frequencies routinely recorded ?
From the AIM : 4 − 1 − 4 . Recording and Monitoring a. Calls to air traffic control ( ATC ) facilities ( ARTCCs , Towers , FSSs , Central Flow , and Operations Centers ) over radio and ATC operational telephone lines ( lines used for operational purposes such as controller instructions , briefings , opening and closing flight plans , issuance of IFR clearances and amendments , counter hijacking activities , etc. ) may be monitored and recorded for operational uses such as accident investigations , accident prevention , search and rescue purposes , specialist training and evaluation , and technical evaluation and repair of control and communications systems . b. Where the public access telephone is recorded , a beeper tone is not required . In place of the " beep " tone the FCC has substituted a mandatory requirement that persons to be recorded be given notice they are to be recorded and give consent . Notice is given by this entry , consent to record is assumed by the individual placing a call to the operational facility . The use of " may be " for the manned stations would hint at a " no " for the CTAF , UNICOM , etc. ( Applies to official recording , liveatc not included . )
Air brakes increase drag with little change in lift . The following image shows the air brake being used in BAe 146 <URL> " <URL> " by <URL> - Own work . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . Spoilers both increase drag and reduce lift - basically , they change the lift-to-drag ratio . Sometimes , they are also used as control surfaces in lieu of ailerons . This image shows a Boeing 777 spoilers being used in flight . <URL> Screengrab from <URL> The lift dumpers are basically ground spoilers that are used to ' dump ' lift , especially immediately after landing , where you want rapid reduction in lift . The following image shows lift dumpers being used in BAe 146 . <URL>
There are no major differences between a turboprop used on an airplane and a turboshaft used on an helicopter . All power is collected by the turbine shaft which rotates the blades through a gearbox . An example of a gas turbine used in helicopter , airplane , train , and even snowplow is the well-known <URL> . It has different versions . The two versions shown below are the PT6A for a propeller ( top ) , and the PT6B for an helicopter ( bottom , with a large gearbox ) . Each sub-family has variant for different powers . ( <URL> ) ( <URL> ) On the two images , from right to left : The accessory box powered by the compressor section , the air intake recognizable by its filter , the compressor ( not visible ) , the combustion chamber ( yellow color on the bottom image ) with its circle of igniters , the turbine ( not visible ) , the exhaust ( the big hole , best visible on the bottom image ) , the power gearbox with different output shafts . There are different types for aero-engines , including turbojet , turbofan , turboprop and turboshaft ( I exclude the ramjet which is not used in civilian aviation ) . All types are based on a <URL> , but the way the turbine participates to the motion is different . ( <URL> ) While airplanes use all types , helicopters can not use the jet action/reaction principle ( tip jet excluded for simplification ) . The gas turbine can be the same for turboshaft and turboprop engines , but will be fitted with appropriate elements : The rotational speed of the shaft will be adjusted to accommodate the rotor or the propeller . This is done using a gear reduction system . An helicopter rotor turns slower than an airplane propeller . Air intake and exhaust are adapted . It rather common to have the air intake on the opposite side of the power output shaft . For a pulling propeller , this means the intake will be aft , and air must be collected forward and ducted to the engine intake . The power output shaft is usually used to bear the propeller tension caused by the lift , while on an helicopter , the rotor tension is borne by the frame . The accessory box is usually powered by the compressor side of the engine . A turboshaft do n't provide the bleed air extraction , there is no cabin pressurization required . ( <URL> ) Gas turbines used in both cases are frequently <URL> , where the compressor section and the turbine ( power ) section rotate independently of each other . This allows to produce electricity or hydraulic power on the ground without turning the blades .
Under FAA jurisdiction , these items are regulated under <URL> . The size of the registration markings must generally be at least 12 inches high : <URL> ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( f ) of this section , each operator of an aircraft must display marks on the aircraft meeting the size requirements of this section . ( b ) Height . Except as provided in paragraph ( h ) of this part , the nationality and registration marks must be of equal height and on -- ( 1 ) Fixed-wing aircraft , must be at least 12 inches high The markings must be displayed on either the vertical tail surfaces or the sides of the fuselage . <URL> ( a ) The operator of a fixed-wing aircraft must display the required marks on either the vertical tail surfaces or the sides of the fuselage , except as provided in § 45.29 ( f ) . ( b ) The marks required by paragraph ( a ) of this section must be displayed as follows : ( 1 ) If displayed on the vertical tail surfaces , horizontally on both surfaces , horizontally on both surfaces of a single vertical tail or on the outer surfaces of a multivertical tail . ( 2 ) If displayed on the fuselage surfaces , horizontally on both sides of the fuselage between the trailing edge of the wing and the leading edge of the horizontal stabilizer . However , if engine pods or other appurtenances are located in this area and are an integral part of the fuselage side surfaces , the operator may place the marks on those pods or appurtenances . There are exceptions to these requirements , but these exceptions will not generally apply to the modern airliners referenced in your question . While the regulations do not prohibit it , I think it would be unusual for the registration to be displayed in more than one location on a given side of the aircraft -- for example , on both the tail and the fuselage . Under ICAO requirements , these items are described under <URL> . Annex 7 , paragraph 3.3.1 includes the additional requirement for heavier-than-air aircraft that the registration markings should be displayed on the lower surface of the wing structure . 3.3.1 Wings . On heavier-than-air aircraft the marks shall appear once on the lower surface of the wing structure . They shall be located on the left half of the lower surface of the wing structure unless they extend across the whole of the lower surface of the wing structure . So far as is possible the marks shall be located equidistant from the leading and trailing edges of the wings . The tops of the letters and numbers shall be toward the leading edge of the wing . The FAA has no such requirement , but other jurisdictions do , such as the <URL> , which is effectively identical to the ICAO guidance . The ICAO size requirements for heavier-than-air aircraft are similar to FAA requirements , with the obvious exception of the wing markings . These requirements are found in Annex 7 , paragraph 4.2 : 4.2.1 Wings . The height of the marks on the wings of heavier-than-air aircraft shall be at least 50 centimetres . 4.2.2 Fuselage ( or equivalent structure ) and vertical tail surfaces . The height of the marks on the fuselage ( or equivalent structure ) and on the vertical tail surfaces of heavier-than-air aircraft shall be at least 30 centimetres . Note that 30 centimetres is approximately equivelant to 12 inches , and 50 centimetres is approximately equivelant to 20 inches .
GPS units paired with older autopilots such as the S-TEC 30/50 mentioned here do not automatically give GPSS steering to the autopilot unless the GPS has a GPSS system built in . In this case the additional GPSS unit swaps between traditional NAV/APR/BC modes that seek using deflection from the CDI and GPSS steering which is data-driven straight from the GPS . It is possible to get a PFD that has GPSS built in as well ( Aspen Evolution ) and takes care of this functionality . A functional difference between these two systems is demonstrated as such with a Garmin GNS-530W / 430W and an STEC-50 autopilot with the separate GPSS unit : 1 ) with the GPS giving guidance and GPSS off ( or not installed ) the autopilot treats the GPS input signal as a CDI input - in other words , if there is a course change of greater than 10 degrees in either direction the autopilot will follow no guidance and do whatever it wants to , for example ignoring a 90 degree right turn in the flight plan ( other than making an initial heading change of a few degrees while attempting to track as the CDI quickly goes full deflection ) and then continuing on in whatever random way it wants without following guidance or a flag showing on the CDI ( there is no flag because the guidance is present , but it 's out of range just like a VOR signal would be ! ) . Accordingly all major course changes must be executed manually or in heading mode by hand then the autopilot is engaged in NAV mode to track the course once it is captured and within 10 degrees of the present course . 2 ) with the GPS giving guidance and GPSS on the GPSS unit sends direct roll steering commands to the autopilot that are extremely accurate . The autopilot must always be in HDG mode to accept these inputs . The heading bug on the DG or HSI is effectively ignored while GPSS is engaged . Here 's an example : while tracking a course ( or really at any point in flight ) , selection of a 90 degree right turn ( say , direct to ) in the GPS will result in direct roll steering commands being given to the autopilot and the autopilot executing those commands and following them extremely closely within the parameters of the autopilot design ( standard rate turn , etc. ) , resulting in an automatic turn to the new course , including automatic intercept of that course if the GPS performs that function , and any following courses and changes being flown precisely and automatically as they are sequenced in the flight plan . Source : I now own an aircraft that has this system and operate it all the time .
It 's hard to see from the angle that your example photos were taken from , but the main reason is that they want the primary flight instruments ( which are on the PFD , or Primary Flight Display ) directly in front of the pilot , no matter which seat they are in . The PFD gives the most critical information which is used to actualy control and fly the aircraft , so is designed to be in the pilot 's direct line of sight . Less critical information is put on the MFD ( Multi Function Display ) . Since the pilots sit close to each side of the cockpit , this usually means that there is n't room to place the MFD on the outside of the PFD . Even if there was room , the extra display is used partially for redundancy , so they do n't want to put it further away from the other pilot . Since the PFD is directly in front of each pilot , it does n't take any effort to switch between seats because of that aspect . This photo ( it 's night , so a little dark but I think that you can see what I 'm referring to ) was taken from my head level while sitting in the right seat , which should make it pretty clear : <URL> own photo
Molding of the intricate shape requires expensive carbon fiber For it to dampen the noise it 's best with 5 + blades ( see 3 . ) Which is hard to balance and too much weight for your run-of-the-mill 4-seater single engine plane By the time the benefits were realized , enter the jet engine for the big planes that would have benefited from it . You only see it in few turboprops nowadays . Edit : For more on the correlation between no . of blades and noise : it was mainly discovered from tests . Here 's a long <URL> with tons of info , and a snippet from it follows ( T denotes Test , summary : more blades , less noise ) : <URL>
Two things : <URL> . This can be alleviated by carefully touching down , but you never know what exactly will happen in the next landing , so better do n't count on it to be smooth Deceleration distance : The higher mass requires a higher approach and touch down speed ( higher by the square root of the mass ratio between your actual mass and the maximum certified landing mass ) . Now you have more mass and more speed , but the landing strip and the airliner 's brakes are still the same . The risk is that you overshoot the runway with an airplane full of fuel or that you overheat the brakes ( which will result in their failure , and again an overshoot ) . Since the kinetic energy is proportional to mass times speed squared , the energy which needs to be absorbed by the brake goes up with the square of the mass increase . If the selected runway for your overweight landing is long enough and the weather is calm ( so a smooth landing is easier ) , an overweight landing is not such a problem . Now let 's look at the 777-300ER in detail . I use the figures from <URL> , because the <URL> is trying much harder to hide the relevant data . The MTOW ( maximum take-off weight , which is actually a mass ) is 351,534 kg , and the maximum landing weight is 251,290 kg , about 100 tons less . Now let 's assume that <URL> and returning to the airfield uses 5 tons of fuel , so the mass ratio is 1.379 . Therefore , the approach speed has to be 17.4 % higher and the total kinetic energy at touchdown is higher by a factor of 1.9 compared to the case at maximum allowable landing weight . If we now assume that speed is reduced linearly during the landing run and that the wheel brakes will just absorb as much energy over time as in the case at maximum landing weight , the deceleration needs to be lower by the mass ratio , so the aircraft decelerates with only 72.5 % of the deceleration at maximum landing weight . To shed its kinetic energy , the landing run will take longer by the increase in kinetic energy , i.e. 1.9 . Since the average speed is also higher by 17.4 % , the landing distance will be higher by a factor of 2.233 or 223 % of the landing distance at maximum landing weight . This neglects that the heating of the brakes is an instationary process , so you can not simply brake with the same intensity for more than twice the time they were designed for . But this little estimation should illuminate what impact a higher landing mass has on the energy and distance involved .
Blades of wind turbines , airplanes and helicopters are essentially the same . They are all wings , roughly to do the same job . However , each one is designed or enhanced to do their special job . The differences can be : Number of revolutions Wing span Rate of flow Tip speed Density of medium Material Load Turbine blades are designed to move in large volumes of rather slow moving air ( usually 10-30 mph ) and not create turbulence that fouls the next blade . Aircraft propellers are designed to move high velocity air and avoid the turbulence by moving out of the way . Wind turbines use blade pitch to adjust the rotation speed and the generated power . Wind turbine 's control system adjusts the blade pitch to keep the rotor speed within operating limits as the wind speed changes . In aircraft , blade pitch is usually described as " coarse " for a coarser angle , and " fine " for a finer .
I 'm not aware of any rules , hopefully others can contribute , but you can usually predict the next frequency with a high rate of precision . For example ( exact stations will differ depending on airport and airspace type ) a typical IFR sequence of stations . Clearance delivery Ground Tower Departures Sector/area ... Sector/area Approach Tower Ground The initial tuning will put delivery in live and ground in standby . Then as you say , just press the toggle . When the next frequency gets dialled in is not , as far as I know , governed in anyway and is probably not even in SOPs since it is just about using the equipment more efficiently . Say delivery has given you a clearance . They will probably follow up with something like " call ground 129.7 " for push and start " . When you are ready for push and start , toggle to ground then put the tower into the standby frequency and so on . Frequency changes are certainly made in cruise , when passing from one ACC sector to the next . These frequencies are published in the national AIP 's and visible on en-route charts . For a sector handoff , I 'd probably dial the next frequency in when the current sector instructs me to contact xyz . It 's really not a big deal if you have to contact someone unexpected . Modern boxes with push button tuning are almost as quick to tune manually as to toggle .
Both are predefined routes through the air which connect the airport areas ( terminal areas ) to the enroute airway system in a way remotely similar to local roads that everyone follows from and to highways . This ensures ( in theory ) an orderly fashion of after departure reaching ( SID ) and leaving towards the airport ( STAR ) the enroute airspaces for all aircraft . SID stands for <URL> . STAR stands for <URL> . The links touch upon everything else .
Well one major difference is the blade pitch , pusher props will seem to be backwards . You must also modify the engine 's bearings to be able to support the propeller mounting and crankshaft in compression , rather than tension . A pusher prop 's engine also has to be cooled differently than a tractor , because the propeller is not blowing air over the engine . Therefore some ducting and ram air magic has to be done , or some other system of cooling implemented . Many pusher-type planes have had severe issues with cooling . Note : some of the next few might not necessarily apply to pusher-type planes where the engine is mounted above the fuselage , like the Lake Amphibian and many other seaplanes , or some other oddities like the B-36 . I am talking about more conventional pushers like the Velocity , Beech Starship , or Cessna 337 . Another issue is FOD . A pusher prop will likely be mounted behind at least one of the wheels , which can kick dirt and rocks up into the propeller . Now imagine a prop that is very close to one of the mains . Even on paved runways you encounter rocks and debris occasionally , and it only takes one hit in the right place to produce a failure-causing nick . Compounding on that last one , when a tractor-type plane takes off , beacause the prop is forward of the center of mass , the propeller will rotate up , away from the ground . But a pusher prop is usually just the opposite : it will rotate down a bit , increasing the chances of a prop-strike . This is one that is heavily considered and worked-around while building pusher-type planes , but while you can mitigate the danger by placing the prop closer to the CM , or making the landing gear taller , you ca n't completely remove it as far as I know .
You are right that older designs used ( and needed ! ) higher safety margins . I would , however , not call this over engineering . But that is besides the point . The biggest advances have been made in materials ! Not just new alloys , but much better quality control in manufacturing . The aluminium sheets and slabs you would get from a factory 50 or 80 years ago had much greater variations in local strength , and in strength between different production batches . The same goes for fasteners , forgings , whatever . Computer-controlled manufacturing and the relentless effort to improve quality and consistency have made this possible . Only wood is still the same as it was then , but Basil Bourque is right : Processing the wood has also improved by leaps and bounds . But now consider what we do when we stress a wing : We use the maximum static lift coefficient , add aileron deflection and use that bending moment at v $ _ A$ to size our wing spar . We do this by applying a <URL> ( § 25.303 ) . For parts with a more error-prone production process additional factors need to be added ( <URL> ) . And now consider what happens in the real world : The dynamic maximum lift coefficient , which does not obey the rules and regulations imposed by the FAA , will easily be 1.3 times bigger than the static lift coefficient used for stressing the wing spar . <URL> . Makes you think how sensible that safety factor really is . While we understand the static loads very well ( because they are easy to study ) , <URL> . A little extra margin sometimes can be quite useful . On the <URL> the structural safety factor was indeed reduced to 1.4 with the reasoning that more precise modeling and simulation would allow to use a smaller margin .
Short answer : Rudder and ailerons have different purposes and control rotation about two different axis , but their use is coordinated since a rotation about one axis induces a secondary rotation on the other one . The rudder use is mostly to prevent unwanted yaw movement for safety and comfort , or to force yaw against the aircraft tendency to keep the aircraft facing the relative wind ( e.g. for a cross-wind landing ) . See <URL> for a more comprehensive explanation . A turn is performed using the ailerons , but for a non-small turn an adverse yaw opposite to the turn develops , the rudder is used to maintain the desired attitude and what is known as a <URL> . When a yaw damper is available , coordinated turns can be conducted without pilot action on the rudder , as the yaw damper controls the rudder automatically . Detailed answer When speed and altitude increase , using the rudder to turn around the yaw axis with the wings horizontal , tends to make the aircraft flies <URL> in the same direction rather than to turn it . Turning this way would require a larger rudder area and would generate additional drag . So this is not the way an aircraft is steered in flight . Banking turns the aircraft An aircraft actually turns by changing the bank ( or roll ) angle . When the aircraft spins about this roll axis , the direction of the lift is changed , and can be seen as having two components : <URL> ( <URL> ) The horizontal component of the lift moves the aircraft away from its original path and a turn starts . Yawing aligns the aircraft with the wind Lowering the aileron on a wing makes it more efficient , it generates more lift and raises . But generating more lift also induces more drag . <URL> ( <URL> ) This drag in excess tends to slow the aircraft on the upper wing side . This creates an <URL> movement in the direction opposite to the one desired . <URL> ( <URL> ) The pilot uses the rudder to counter the adverse yaw and keep the fuselage axis facing the airflow , countering <URL> effects . This is known as performing a <URL> . Ailerons-rudder coordination The amount of rudder to apply can be determined using ( human senses and ) different instruments , including the <URL> which is a sort of level usually associated with a bank or rate of turn indicator . <URL> ( <URL> ) <URL> ( <URL> ) When executing a coordinated level turn without wind , at sea level , etc , the radius of the turn and the turn rate depend only on the airspeed and the bank angle : TAS 150kt , bank 20 ° : Radius 1,676 m , 360 ° in 2:16 . TAS 300kt , bank 30 ° : Radius 4,227 m , 360 ° in 3:51 . See <URL> for additional information . Ailerons deflection reduced in the turn Note that when the desired bank angle is reached , the pilot reduces the ailerons deflection . The excess of lift and drag on the upper wing decreases too , as does the adverse yaw . The rudder deflection can be reduced too . Normally the aircraft should maintain its bank and continue to turn with ailerons in neutral position , due to the upper wing flying faster and generating more lift . However the aircraft in a rolled attitude actually slips into the turn and the dihedral effect tends to decrease the roll angle of the slipping aircraft ( <URL> ) . So some degree of aileron deflection will be maintained . The ailerons ( and the rudder ) are used to return the wings to their horizontal position and stop the turn more accurately . Yaw damper In commercial airliners , the yaw control is assisted by one or two <URL> which function is to increase the yaw stability and prevent the development of the dangerous <URL> . Thanks to the yaw dampers , the pilot does not need to use the rudder pedals for coordinated turns . <URL> ( <URL> )
Yes , cargo and passenger aircraft of the same basic model are sometimes flown differently when there is no live cargo . A friend of mine who flies cargo put it almost exactly as you did in your question when you say boxes can not complain , so he sometimes hand flies the aircraft when passenger pilots would be required to use autopilot . Cargo pilots do n't have to worry about tender stomachs in the back , so steeper climbs and descents and tighter turns are acceptable as long as the aircraft remains well within the flight envelope .
The FAA is only authorized by congress to regulate FLIGHT , not radio communications . Radio communications are regulated by the FCC . Both of these agencies have no power to make laws . They can make only " regulations " . In the United States , according to the Constitution , laws can only be made by Congress or the legislatures of the several states . The position of the FCC is that it is legal for any person to monitor and record any radio transmission that they wish . The only exception to this is listening to private telephone conversations or encrypted military transmissions . The Federal law that prohibits this , explicitly exempts maritime and aeronautical transmissions . This is the language : 18 USC § 2511 ( 2 ) ( g.ii.IV ) It shall not be unlawful under this chapter or chapter 121 of this title for any person to intercept any radio communication which is transmitted by any marine or aeronautical communications system ; Therefore , by United States federal law it is explicitly allowed and permitted for anyone to monitor and record maritime or aeronautical communications .
You can start with the FAA 's reference page for <URL> . It will point you to the FAA <URL> General Aviation Airman Designee Handbook . It 's all there . You 'll need to talk to your local Flight Standards District Office ( FSDO ) as they are responsible for administering the program . The general eligibility requirements are : General Eligibility Requirements . The managing office must carefully consider all of the requirements before designating an applicant or renewing a designee . The general requirements for appointment , which are reviewed by the NEB , are : a. Minimum Age . Minimum age of 23 years for all designees . b. Personality Traits . Must exhibit integrity , professionalism , and sound judgment . c. Training Requirement . Must have satisfactorily completed the applicable training requirement before appointment/renewal as a designee . d. Knowledge of Guidance Materials . Must have access to , and adequate knowledge of , the current regulations , policies , directives , and related guidance material appropriate to authorized functions . e. Command of English Language . Must be able to fluently read , write , speak , and understand the English language . f. Objectivity . Must maintain the highest degree of objectivity while performing authorized functions . g. Good Record . Must have a good record in the aviation industry . h. Technology Access . Must have internet access , as well as access to a computer and printer with hardware/software sufficient to support the required activities . Note : A designee is not required to be a U.S. citizen . Note : Additional eligibility requirements for specific designee types are included in the applicable designee type specific chapters ( Chapters 6 and 7 ) of this order . As to what the FAA is looking for ( this from a DPE , I used to work with ) , the FAA is looking for someone they can trust to perform the job to standards . They expect a DPE candidate to be an experienced instructor . They 'll look at the the history of students signed off for check rides by that person . If any significant number of recommended students are n't passing check rides or ' just squeak by ' , it wo n't reflect favorably on the applicant . OTOH , if the recommended students are well prepared and almost always pass , that 's a good indication . That shows the instructor 's standards are the same as the FAA 's . ' Openings ' for DPE positions are driven by supply and demand . The purpose of any Designee is to help manage the workload imposed on the FAA 's office . If the office can handle the number of applicant 's , they wo n't add a DPE . And if an existing DPE is n't performing a minimum of examinations , they 'll lose the Designation . Most of the DPEs I 've known worked for flight schools where there was a steady stream of students .
It 's for <URL> ( for <URL> ) . As the generated lift bends the wings upward , the weight of the fuel will counter that . As the plane loses weight in-flight due to burning fuel , so does the need for wing bending relief ( less weight → less lift ) , that 's why the wing tanks are the last to be used . For context , a Boeing 777-200ER can hold 29 tonnes of fuel in each wing , and each wing measures ~ 27 metres and is self-supported . Example : Let 's say in our airliner each wing tank holds 100 units ( 200 total for both tanks ) , and the center tank holds 200 units , and you have a flight that needs 200 units of fuel . Correct scenario : By filling only the wing tanks , the weight of fuel in the wings will counter the bending of the lift . Incorrect scenario : By filling only the center tank , the wings will bend a great deal ( maybe even beyond their design limit ) . This is not good , and even if it is within the design limits , the repeating [ avoidable ] stresses will shorten the <URL> . Example for order of use ( schedule ) : Our flight needs 300 units , based on the above , we will fill the wing tanks , and fill half the center tank . Correct order : By emptying the center first , we have extended the duration of the wing bending relief . Incorrect order : By emptying the wings first , we lose the wing bending relief , while the plane is still heavy . Related : <URL>
Angle of Attack is the angle between the chord line of the airfoil and the relative wind . The elevator is also a " wing " in the effect that it is an airfoil . 1 ) Then what is the angle between the chord line of the elevator and relative wind ? Because if I am not wrong , by pitching the elevator up , the wing of an aircraft is subjected to the ' angle of attack ' . It 's also called " Angle Of Attack " . Pitching the elevator up also changes the angle of attack of the elevator . There are such conditions as elevator stall , although much less common than wing stall . 2 ) When you say angle of attack exceed critical angle of attack , is it because the elevator is pitched up thus creating wider angle between the chord line and the relative direction of the wind ? The " Critical AoA " is the angle at which the airfoil is generating the most lift . [ <URL> ] : The critical angle of attack is the angle of attack which produces maximum lift coefficient . This is also called the " stall angle of attack " . Below the critical angle of attack , as the angle of attack increases , the coefficient of lift ( Cl ) increases . At the same time , above the critical angle of attack , as angle of attack increases , the air begins to flow less smoothly over the upper surface of the airfoil and begins to separate from the upper surface Usually when you exceed the critical AoA , the air on the upper surface of the airfoil de-laminates and becomes turbulent . This results in a loss of lift ( stall ) . <URL> <URL> 3 ) In the Air France 447 accident , the PF kept saying , keeps the wings level . What does it mean ? How can the wings be leveled when the angle of attack is so high ? Does keeping the wings level means reducing the angle of attack to zero ? I 'm not sure what context you are talking about . I 've read the transcripts pretty carefully and I do n't recall the PF saying to keep the wings level . The Captain said to descend , while the PF was trying to climb . The SIC was pushing the stick forward while the PF was pulling back , causing the wings to remain level ( or at a slight climb ) . Keeping the wings level ( avoiding an un-coordinated turn ) in a stall condition is the best way to avoid putting the aircraft into a spin . This is possibly what they meant , although they did n't know that they were in a stall ( or if they did , they were not reacting to it appropriately ) . Yes , leveling the wings would be making the AoA at zero ( zero meaning where the airfoil is developing lift , and depending on the bank angle ) , but only if there were positive airspeed to make the relative wind parallel with the chord . In the case of AF447 , the aircraft was falling out of the sky at a spectacular 15,000 FPM , which means that the relative wind to the airfoil was basically perpendicular . They did n't have the forward airspeed to change the AoA , so they should have lowered the nose to gain airspeed and decrease the AoA . The important thing to remember is that the pitch angle of the aircraft is not the same as the AoA . You can take an aircraft at zero forward speed and drop it straight down , the pitch angle will be zero but the AoA will be perpendicular .
A radome , or nose cone , is essentially a structural cover serving a different purpose than the fuselage . These are made separate because they a special material invisible to the radar mounted beneath them . They are different shapes or sizes depending on the customer specific component they cover ( radar antennas ) and can be easily removed or replaced . The radome serves two essential purposes . 1 ) It covers electronic equipment mounted to the forward bulkhead of the fuselage to protect it from weather , or from view . 2 ) It acts as an aerodynamic cover for the leading edge of the aircraft . <URL>
end question
start question
Is it worth reporting that I saw a green laser being pointed at the aircraft as a passenger ?
In that case I would definitely report the incidence ! It does n't have to be done by police , but you can give the airport authority a call , that way you do n't have to make too much of a big deal about it , and still informed the ones that need to know . They can then advise pilots and keep their eyes open for it . If there is a attack on the airplanes , it is important that it is being reported before it is too late . If not , then you did n't make a big deal out of it and are not in trouble for wasting time and money . So , a call where you could explain what you have seen and give a opinion is your best bet , if they tell you off then hey , you 've tried it !
The thrust T of a rotor can be given as : $ $ T = C_T \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot ( \ omega \ cdot R ) ^ 2 $ $ With : $ \ rho $ = air density [ 1.225 kg/m $ ^ 3 $ ] at sea level $ A$ = area of the rotor disc [ m $ ^ 2 $ ] $ \ omega $ = angular speed of the rotor [ rad/s ] $ C_T $ = thrust coefficient . $ C_T $ depends on the configuration of the rotor : blade pitch , number of blades , blade chord etc. . It can range from 0 to 0.01 , without knowing more about the config of your rotor we can take the average at 0.005 the value 0.001 , see update below . The torque Q follows a similar format : $ $ Q = C_Q \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot ( \ omega \ cdot R ) ^ 2 \ cdot R $ $ For a given $ C_T $ , we can look up $ C_q $ in the following figure , valid for a propeller solidity of 0.1 . For a $ C_T $ of 0.005 we find a $ C_Q $ ( = $ C_P $ ! ) of 0.0004 , for the updated $ C_T $ of 0.001 the $ C_Q $ = 0.00015 <URL> <URL> : Update The above $ C_T $ is valid for helicopter rotors . For quadcopters with their much smaller rotors , induced power losses , tip losses etc are much higher . <URL> gives a detailed discussion on $ C_T $ of small rotors , although a direct comparison can not be made since they use a different definition of $ C_T $ . With this in mind , and using the definition of $ C_T $ as above , a better choice for $ C_T $ would be 0.001 , and the corresponding $ C_Q $ is 0.00015 .
in law generally means according to a calculation or apportionment formula - in the context of the FARs that formula is generally assumed to be $ \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { nOccupants } \ right ) $ as Hugh noted . I actually went on a dive through <URL> on how they deal with the pro rata bit and found nothing applicable to this situation , so what follows is an interpretation crafted out of my own slightly deranged mind , but it seems sensible to me . Interestingly while digging around I found nothing in the FARs or interpretations that would seem to preclude <URL> for pro rata share than " divide by the number of people in the plane " , but neither is there anything I can find to support doing so , and I imagine it would be much harder to justify to your local FSDO if questions came up . For the sake of simplicity ( and our collective sanity ) let 's stick with " simple division " as the formula . The FARs specify that the pilot may not pay less than their pro rata share of operating expenses associated with the flight . So , if we have 4 occupants of the aircraft ( Mom , Dad , Baby , and Pilot ) and they go for a hundred-dollar hamburger the simple division method says pilot can not pay less than one-fourth of the operating expenses associated with the flight . If we say the expenses work out to be \ $ 100 ( for the sake of easy math ) the pilot has to pay at least \ $ 25 . The FAA does n't much care where the rest of the money comes from because it 's implicit in the regulations that the pilot is n't keeping it ( the money would be going into the hands of the FBO for fuel , oil , ramp fees , etc. ) -- Mom &amp; Dad could pay $ 37.50 each ( covering themselves plus the baby ) or split it up between themselves in any other way they wish and this is still acceptable under the regulations as long as the pilot has paid their pro rata share of the expenses . The pilot can certainly pay more than the simple-divison pro rata share of expenses ( and generally that 's the most equitable option - figure out who 's paying , divide by that number , and make sure the pilot is in the " paying " group to stay on the right side of the regulations ) . In your example you would split the cost up among the three adults ( each paying $ 33.33 , and the pilot generally kicking in the extra penny ) . The same logic in both of these arguments would apply if we were n't talking about a baby , but rather a third friend that you all decided to treat to a trip .
I happen to have personal knowledge of this particular case . I was in that airplane , too , seated two rows away from him . I 'm also a former pilot and was naturally very interested in what happened , so I asked him some questions during the flight back . He had worked as service mechanic for this company before , servicing their planes in Iceland . Their technical staff and the pilot of this plane already knew him , which made things easier . Tools and parts were available at the airport in Alicante , but no qualified technician certified for this type of aircraft . The technical staff of the airline contacted his boss in Iceland by phone , who agreed to sub-contract him to the airline for the duration of the repair and pay him overtime for the work . They faxed a copy of his certification documents to Stockholm to cover the EASA regulations that require a certified professional doing the repair .
In the past when airport owners want to control traffic flow , they file a NOTAM that the airport is closed , and contact xxx at 123456789 for exceptions . Then for the takeoff , the airport manager would issue a verbal " the airport is open for N1234 to depart " and then close the airport . This could be done on the unicom , in person , via telephone or however one wanted to . This happens at some private and corporate strips . It is actually more common in the northern parts of Canada , where there are fields operated by mining companies . In those cases , authorized aircraft come and go , and the field appears as a restricted use field . ( Often they are not even charted , even though they may have VOR-DME on the field . ) So in summary , you have at least two paths to take : 1 . NOTAM the field closed , or 2 . Restrict the use ps : If you really want to play controller , you could install a private tower ( NFCT ) , but then there are a bunch of rules to follow , and I believe your tower controllers would essentially have to be FAA trained . But I am not up on those regs , and they may have changed since I was more fresh on them . Here is a sample NFCT set up for an event : <URL> Amendment on NFCT : Specifically , the FAA permits non-federal control towers , NFCT , whereby an agency or entity that wishes a towered airport which does not meet federal criteria , or is otherwise unable to get a Federal Control Tower ( FCT ) , may operate a control tower . Technically , this satisfies the OP criteria for issuing " clearances " but perhaps with a little more red tape than he might be interested in . <URL> AC 90-93B states in part : There are no comprehensive set of federal rules governing the operation of NFCTs . The Advisory Circular goes on to make recommendations for procedures , policy , training and equipment . In summary , if you want to install a tower at your private field , you can do so . Good luck getting insurance . Make sure you follow FCC Part 87 for your radio licenses . Spend some time working with your center , and regional approach facilities .
Yes , a hot air balloon would change class , if you are adding an engine and propeller to provide thrust . With powered flight comes the need to provide some form of flight control ; at this point , you have an airship , albeit a <URL> . According to the FAA 's <URL> , and much like @voretaq7 's citation in another answer : An airship is an engine-driven , lighter-than-air aircraft , that can be steered . The FAA has a whole section on <URL> , for further reading .
The <URL> allows pilots to bypass the traditional <URL> flight review by completing a " phase " of the WINGS program . The program and requirements are detailed in FAA Advisory Circular 61-91 <URL> . The short version is that a " phase " of WINGS consists of three credits of " flight activities " and three credits of " knowledge activities " , which must be earned with a 12 calendar month period . Flight credits are earned by flying with an instructor and demonstrating safe &amp; proficient flying skills in specific areas of operation . For example , one " Basic WINGS " flight activity ( worth 1 credit ) is demonstrating basic air work - forward slips , steep turns , rectangular course , S-turns , and turns around a point - to Private Pilot practical test standards . When you have successfully completed a flight activity your instructor can log in to the FAA Safety / WINGS site and give you credit for completing the activity . Knowledge credits are earned by attending seminars and classes - these can be <URL> , or on-line webinars . Many of the <URL> qualify for WINGS credit . When you complete a phase of wings your flight review clock resets , and your flight review becomes due 24 calendar months from the date you completed that phase . Ultimately participating in the WINGS program probably means you will be spending more than the " bare minimum " 1 hour of ground time and 1 hour of flight time that FAR 61.56 requires . While you can often complete flight activities in an hour ( or much less if you 're proficient ) the knowledge topics often take longer : the webinars are typically 30-40 minutes each , and in-person seminars can easily last an hour or more . The major benefit to the WINGS program is increased safety through building your knowledge and proficiency - the seminars are actually informative ( and the in-person ones can even be fun , depending on who is running them ) , and the flight activities are pretty easy ( though there are certainly challenging ones available if you want to push yourself and really sharpen your skills ) . Resetting the flight review is an enticement to encourage all of us to participate .
You did n't say exactly what " allowed " means , e.g. do you mean approved by the manufacturer , or legal in a certain country ? But if you 're asking is it legal in the US ( under FAA regulations ) , then the answer is yes . AOPA has a nice article on exactly this question , called <URL> . It says : There is no specific FAA regulation that applies to hand propping an airplane , either to prohibit it or to direct how it is to be done But : The FAA contends that hand propping is a two-person operation and has expressed this view in the <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-3A ) under the section titled " Hand propping . " Of course , this publication is not regulatory , but the NTSB was surely influenced by it in a 1983 legal decision . In that case , the FAA sought to suspend a pilot 's certificate for being careless or reckless when , while attempting to start a VariEze experimental aircraft , it " got away " and ran into a parked aircraft . The NTSB concluded that the pilot had violated <URL> ( careless and reckless operation ) : The board affirmed the administrative law judge 's finding that there had been a 91.10 ( now 91.13 ) violation That means that hand propping itself is n't illegal , but doing it wrongly and against the FAA 's general procedures could get you in trouble : There have been at least two previously issued NTSB ( full board ) decisions and one subsequent decision that refer to these generally accepted procedures and precautions for hand propping . The precedent has been set . So , hand proppers beware ; if you fail to follow proper precautions and the airplane gets away , the FAA might pursue action against you for being careless or reckless .
The differences are in the demonstrated accuracy of the ILS or RNAV equipment . Not sure if the question can be properly answered without writing a book , but digging into the documents linked by Jonathan Walters I extracted the tables below . The document is very long and full of caveats , exceptions and specifics on testing requirements , etc. and frequently refers to parameters set forth in other documents . CAT I <URL> CAT II <URL> CAT III Landing System Performance . All types of low visibility landings systems , including automatic flight control , guidance for manual control , and hybrid , shall be demonstrated to achieve the performance accuracy with the probabilities prescribed in this section . The performance values may vary where justified by the characteristics of the airplane . The performance criteria and probabilities are as follows : ( a ) Longitudinal touch down earlier than a point on the runway 200 ft. ( 60m ) from the threshold to a probability of 1 x 10-6 ; ( b ) Longitudinal touch down beyond 2700 ft. ( 823m ) from threshold to a probability of 1 x 10-6 ; ( c ) Lateral touch down with the outboard landing gear more than 70 ft. ( 21.3 m ) from runway centerline to a probability of 1 x 10-6 . ( d ) Structural limit load , to a probability of 1 x 10-6 . An acceptable means of establishing that the structural limit load is not exceeded is to show separately and independently that : ( i ) The limit load that results from a sink rate at touch down not greater than 10 f.p.s. or the limit rate of descent used for certification under 14 CFR part 25 subpart C ( see section 25.473 ) , whichever is the greater . ( ii ) The lateral side load does not exceed the limit value determined for the lateral drift landing condition defined in part 25 , section 25.479 ( d ) ( 2 ) . ( e ) Bank angle resulting in hazard to the airplane to a probability of 1 x 10-7 . A hazard to the airplane is interpreted to mean a bank angle resulting in any part of the wing , high lift device , or engine nacelle touching the ground . 6.3.2 . Speed Control Performance . Airspeed must be controllable to within + / - five knots of the approach speed * , except for momentary gusts , up to the point where the throttles are retarded to idle for landing . For operations flown with manual control of approach speed , the flightcrew must be able to control speed to within + / - five knots of the approach speed . <URL>
By motor oil , I assume that you mean automotive motor oil . In that case , it 's a bad idea for a bunch of reasons . First , every airplane POH I 've seen has specified that the oil must qualify to a standard - either MIL-L-6082 or MIL-L-22851 ( though those have been superseded by an SAE standard ) . Modern automotive oil does n't meet that standard , and therefore is effectively forbidden by the POH . More to the point , automotive oil is bad for aviation engines . Aviation and automotive engines work on the same basic principles , but many of the details are different .1 One significant difference is that aviation engines normally burn some oil as they run , while well-performing automobile engines burn little or none . Automotive oil contains a number of additives , such as detergents and wear inhibitors , intended for use where the oil does n't burn off . Some of those additives do not burn completely , but instead stick around in the form of ash , where they can foul the engine and create deposits that lead to pre-ignition . That is why aviation oil is ashless dispersant : it cleans the engine by dispersing combustion byproducts into the oil ( to be removed on the next oil change ) , while being ashless when burned . Lycoming considers it serious enough to put in an all-caps " CAUTION " section in their <URL> document : UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHOULD AUTOMOTIVE OIL BE USED . THE USE OF AUTOMOTIVE LUBRICANTS IN TEXTRON LYCOMING ENGINES IS NOT RECOMMENDED BECAUSE ITS USE COULD CAUSE ENGINE FAILURE . If all of that was n't enough , use of an improper oil may void your engine warranty . In short : do n't use it . References : <URL> <URL> <URL> 1 ) Note that I 'm referring to air-cooled aviation engines that burn 100LL - made by , say , Lycoming or Continental . Rotaxes and new aero-diesels are different , and more like their respective automotive counterparts ; in fact , Thielert engines are actually based on automotive diesels .
An AFSP application is valid for one provider , one aircraft category ( TSA category , not FAA category ) , and one training event ( single-engine , IR or multi-engine ) . If you change any of those things , you need to submit a new application . If you 're at a part 61 or 141 school that has multiple instructors , the approved provider is usually the school , not the individual instructor . So you can receive training from any instructor there without an issue . If you 're getting training directly from a freelance part 61 instructor , then it 's possible that the instructor himself is the approved provider . In that case , you would need to submit a new application to get training from a different instructor or school . In either case , your school or instructor should know exactly who 's registered with the TSA as the provider . As for the aircraft , you only need to submit a new request if you want to train in a different aircraft category . Initial training is usually done in category 3 aircraft ( maximum MTOW of 12,500 lbs ) and you can train in one or many physical aircraft , as long as they 're all in the same category . But remember that SEL and MEL are different training events so if your current approval is for SEL training you ca n't receive MEL training , even if the aircraft is under 12,500 lbs . Links to specific pages on <URL> do n't work properly , but their FAQ is reasonably clear and you can email their helpdesk at AFSP.Help@dhs.gov if you need more information . AOPA has <URL> , and the regulations ( including category definitions ) are in <URL> .
It has happened before . There are definite cases of light civilian aircraft landing on a carrier , the most well known was in April 1975 when South Vietnamese Air Force Major Buang Lee landed an O-1 Bird Dog on the deck of the USS Midway trying to escape with his wife and 5 children from the fall of Saigon to North Vietnamese forces . Landing aboard an aircraft carrier presents several difficulties , namely limited landing roll and available deck space . A Nimitz Class carrier is just shy of 1100 feet in total length and 250 ft at its widest point . The designated landing area or LA is approx 75 x 650 ft. The ship is capable of steaming at 30 + kts so it can develop quite a bit of wind over the flight deck reducing the effective unarrested landing roll . Then you need to stop the aircraft once it 's on the deck . Carrier based fixed wing jets use tailhooks designed to work with the arresting gear and reduce the landing roll to about 330 feet . The largest carrier aircraft in service were the Douglas A-3 and the Grumman C-2 and E-2 , each one about the size of a regional jet . The largest aircraft which I am aware of which made a successful unarrested landing was a Lockheed C-130 . Large commercial aircraft like a Boeing 747 or an Airbus A-380 simply can not fit on the deck without the wings clipping the island or other deck antennas , etc , not to mention requiring landing rolls of over 3000 ft even in the most extreme short field attempts . So HAS a carrier aided a civilian passenger flight via recovery operations ? Yes but only with small aircraft . COULD a carrier aid in recovering larger commercial aircraft ? Possible depending on the size of the aircraft , its loadout and fuel state and performance capabilities .
There is no regulatory requirement for oxygen to be available for anyone on board an aircraft so long as it remains at altitudes of 12,500 ' MSL or less . And only the required minimum flight crew is required to have oxygen if they are flying above 12,500 ' up to and including 14,000 MSL ' IF they will be at those altitudes for more than 30 minutes . <URL> If they were going above 15,000 ' MSL that would be another story . So the short of it is , No , that pilot was not irresponsible , perhaps , maybe slightly inconsiderate , but not irresponsible . The reason for this is the lower density of the air is n't low enough to harm the majority of passengers . Except for extreme cases , such as those with severe and uncontrolled asthma or heavy smokers , the worst thing that would happen would be the passengers would just get sleepy and fall asleep . This is natural , and because the body does not need as much oxygen when asleep . For passengers there generally wo n't be any harm done from a mild case altitude induced hypoxic hypoxia . And YES ! You can ask someone if they will be ' OK ' at higher altitudes ! Just as it is not only ' OK ' but required to ask their weight for weight and balance calculations . ( And quite frankly I believe most people find that more intrusive . ) In fact you should take 5 minutes to tell your passengers that the flight will be in excess of , say 11,000 ' , that way they can be prepared for some unusual effects and not have to worry about them . To take it a step further , remember you are the Pilot in Command and you should be aware of your passenger 's limitations as that may trigger any self imposed safety limitations you have for the safety of the flight . Now , if you just want passengers to be comfortable and/or they absolutely insist on not taking a little nap , then it is entirely up to you if you want to carry a portable aviation oxygen canister with you for your passengers . For further information on hypoxia I would recommend the <URL> on it and the differing effects on pilots , and by extension passengers . Hope this helps !
... however , I ca n't find a reference to where IATA would publish these codes . You can find it <URL> . Before committing to the purchase of the document , check the free Table of Contents to make sure it has what you want .
A meteorite could hit an airplane , sure . There 's no known cases of it happening because meteorites which survive atmospheric entry are very rare , and airplanes are pretty small so the likelihood of it happening is extremely low .
No , you should not * . In my opinion , you should limit your logbook to records of your own flight experience . This would include any time spent training , as PIC , or as required crew . The time you can log as PIC is that which you spend as the sole manipulator of the controls , the sole occupant , or as the pilot in command when the required crew is > 1 . <URL> . <URL> has some good coverage of this as well . If you 're just hanging out in the airplane , it does n't matter if you 're in the front seat or the back seat . If you 're receiving instruction , you should get an entry and a logbook endorsement from the instructor you 're flying with . Most General Aviation aircraft do n't require a type rating , so I 'm unsure what the context of your final question is . * It 's worth noting that you can technically put whatever you want in your logbook , though it 's not a great idea ; when it comes time to fill out an FAA 8710 form for later ratings , it can get confusing . In my opinion , you still should n't log any time , but if you 're just wanting to record flights that you took with friends , that 's fine . As an instructor who 's had to slog through some weird logbooks , I 'd really , really encourage you to track that elsewhere , though . Your logbook is exactly that - it 's your logbook , for the logging of your flight time , and a record of your flight experience and training .
I 'd refer to FAR 91.3 ( a ) : The pilot in command of an aircraft is directly responsible for and is the final authority as to the operation of that aircraft . Therefore , I believe you have a duty to determine that the aircraft is properly maintained . While that does n't mean disassembling it and checking the work yourself , I do think that its reasonable to verify that the maintenance logs have recent entries , and appear orderly . At my old flight school , I never got any grief at all ( and occasional complements ) when I wanted to see the logs for some reason . If they give you so much as an eye-roll when you ask to see the logs , that should be a cautionary sign . I think it is also an easy way to meet the maintenance guys , and be introduced to them as a careful , thoughtful pilot . ( The Mx guys likely despise " cowboy " pilots who bring back damaged equipment , and do n't report it . ) You 'll get to know some people at the new school , and get a reputation right off the bat .
A crew that consists of the basic required cockpit crew for the aircraft plus relief crew for long flights is called an " augmented flight crew . " As far as I know , this designation is used by ICAO , the FAA , and the EASA ( and likely others . ) <URL> defines augmented flight crew as : Augmented flight crew . A flight crew that comprises more than the minimum number required to operate the aeroplane and in which each flight crew member can leave his or her assigned post and be replaced by another appropriately qualified flight crew member for the purpose of in-flight rest . The FAA 's Federal Aviation Regulations define it nearly identically in <URL> : Augmented flightcrew means a flightcrew that has more than the minimum number of flightcrew members required by the airplane type certificate to operate the aircraft to allow a flightcrew member to be replaced by another qualified flightcrew member for in-flight rest .
In that case I would definitely report the incidence ! It does n't have to be done by police , but you can give the airport authority a call , that way you do n't have to make too much of a big deal about it , and still informed the ones that need to know . They can then advise pilots and keep their eyes open for it . If there is a attack on the airplanes , it is important that it is being reported before it is too late . If not , then you did n't make a big deal out of it and are not in trouble for wasting time and money . So , a call where you could explain what you have seen and give a opinion is your best bet , if they tell you off then hey , you 've tried it !
Depends on what you build . It is possible to build a helicopter that qualifies as an ultralight , and thus no license needed . If it exceeds the weight and power restrictions for an ultralight , then it is an experimental aircraft , that requires at least a solo ticket . I would strongly suggest that rather than scratch build your own , an experience you might not survive , you take a look at what I 'm currently lusting after : <URL> In kit form ( which technically makes you the builder ) , it can be had in ultralight form , with limited range . Or in experimental form with a more powerful 2 stroke engine and larger fuel capacity . And finally , the ( sigh ) gas turbine powered version . One advantage of building the experimental kit is : as the builder , you can perform all maintenance and the annual inspection yourself . Another advantage of going the more capable experimental route is : you can log the hours .
end question
start question
What frequency should be used for air-to-ground communication other than airport ground operation ?
Radio frequencies in the USA are assigned by the <URL> , not the FAA . There 's no ' private ' air-to-ground frequency mentioned in the AIM but <URL> does say that the FCC has assigned 122.900 as a MULTICOM frequency for : Activities of a temporary , seasonal , emergency nature or search and rescue , as well as , airports with no tower , FSS , or UNICOM Arguably your fly-by is " temporary activity " , however the definition of MULTICOM is : A mobile service not open to public correspondence used to provide communications essential to conduct the activities being performed by or directed from private aircraft So if your fly-by is " essential " ( and safe ! ) then I guess you could use 122.9 . There are <URL> for requesting temporary air-to-ground frequencies for air shows , but that 's obviously a special case . As for legality , it seems that <URL> to use an aviation handheld radio on the ground : You may only use your hand-held aircraft VHF radio in your aircraft under the terms of your aircraft license . You are required to have a separate Ground Station license to operate your radio on the ground . But because this is more about FCC regulations than FAA ones , I suggest that you ask on <URL> ; they 'll probably know a lot more about how it all works .
From the <URL> referenced by mongo , Frequencies ( MHz ) : 121.425 - 121.475 Use : Band Protection for 121.5 Frequencies ( MHz ) : 121.525 - 121.575 Use : Band Protection for 121.5 It seems that these frequencies exist only to be silent space around Guard/121 .5 . No one should transmit on them , and you should probably hear total silence there . I think these are an excellent place to look for quiet space .
Most airliners have a protection system for this which is based on Weight-on-Wheels ( WoW ) : sensors which detect load on the wheels ( which implies that the aircraft is in contact with ground ) . For safety reasons this can be bypassed and there 's usually a small lever in connection to the gear lever to do this . This image illustrates the 737 gear lever where you can clearly see a " lock override " which fills this functionality ( red part ) <URL>
First , you have to remember on some configurations , the lower stages of flap will mostly add drag and very little lift . Sometimes that extra notch of full flaps is only there to change the camber of the wing to add a bit of a nose down attitude to help with visibility on landing . Both are items you do not require on takeoff . Now , when selecting flaps for take-off there are two things to consider : runway length and obstacles to clear after the runway : Runway Length Generally when lowering flaps your $ V _ { \ text { mu } } $ ( the speed at which you become airborne , " minimum unstick speed " ) will decrease . This means a shorter runway for normal stages of flaps . As you continue to add more flaps your $ V _ { \ text { mu } } $ will be lower , but because of the added drag , which decreases acceleration , it will actually take a longer distance to reach that lower $ V _ { \ text { mu } } $ . There is a sweet spot in-between , though . " Take-off Flaps " is not always designed to give you the shortest takeoff roll . Obstacle Clearance And that is because once airborne , the more flaps you have deployed , the higher the drag , the less excess thrust available , thus the less you can climb . Simply put , you are now flying at a low speed and barely climbing . Not a good idea if there are tall trees waiting for you at the end of the runway . It would be illegal to take-off on full flaps if : POH says it is prohibited , or For commercial flying , if the flap setting does not provide the minimum required gross obstacle clearance climb gradient ( depending on the type of operation and number of engines , between 2.4 % -3.0 % ) .
Whether you have the ROW or not , it is your responsibility to " see and avoid " even if the other pilot is n't . This is the aviation analog to defensive driving ; call it " defensive flying " . There are no hard-and-fast rules for collision avoidance maneuvers . You basically have six options and their combinations , any of which will put you at a different point than you would be at the expected intercept ( collision ) point : climb , descend , turn left , turn right , speed up , slow down . There was a study conducted by students at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign , results available <URL> , which might be helpful . The primary purpose of the study was to determine the usefulness of a computer traffic display in aiding the pilot to spot and avoid the traffic , but a secondary goal was to determine the most likely ( and safest ) collision avoidance maneuvers when presented with " intruders " on a collision course in each of 12 basic intercept paths ( overtaking , crossing , or approaching , from the left or the right side , and climbing , level or descending ) . Among the lessons learned were : Pilots ( CFIs were used ) were most likely to maneuver purely in the vertical to avoid traffic , moving opposite the vertical direction of the plane in sight and preferring to climb if the intruding traffic was holding altitude . Despite the pilots ' preference for the vertical , the maneuvers that cleared the " conflict " in the shortest time were in the horizontal plane , either turning opposite the plane 's relative direction of travel to move behind , or slowing to let the traffic pass in front . Pilots tended to do what was " easiest " at the time the conflict arose , especially if the intruder was sighted late ( because the traffic did n't appear on the computer display ; another of the variables they tested ) . Thus , single-axis maneuvers were most common ( not counting the use of throttle to adjust power while performing a maneuver , such as cutting power to dive or increasing it to climb or turn ) . Taking all this under advisement , the maneuver most likely to avoid a collision with another plane in otherwise clear skies is a level 30-45 ° turn in the direction of the intruding aircraft 's tail , coupled with a reduction in airspeed if the intruder is on a crossing or approaching route ( if he 's coming up behind you , maintain airspeed ) . If the other pilot sees you and reacts at the same time , his most likely move will be a climb , which is fine ; if he does n't see you or react at all , you 'll pass safely behind him at the same altitude hopefully avoiding his wake ( if he 's bigger than you ) . However , there 's some interesting game theory here . Any maneuver I tell you to make , except one , will keep you on a potential collision course if the other pilot reacts in the same way at the same time . As you supposed in your question , If you both climb , or dive , or speed up , or slow down , or try to turn behind each other , you 'll crash ( or at least get way too close for comfort ) . So , anything I tell you to do because it 's unlikely the other pilot will do the same will be self-defeating , because eventually other pilots will do the same thing because it works . The one move that wo n't result in a collision if mirrored is a 90 ° turn in the same direction as the intruder 's movement across your vision . If he 's on your left moving right , turn right 90 ° . If he 's on your right , turn left . If the other pilot mirrors your maneuver , worst-case ( an aircraft overtaking you directly from behind who turns the same way as you ) you 'll end up on parallel flight paths at whatever distance you first noticed each other . Best-case , you 'll be heading away from each other and after a couple of minutes you can both reverse your turn and continue along your original heading . But , this move is the worst thing you can do in several scenarios if the other plane holds its course . In high-offset crossing routes ( close to 90 ° ) , turning away from the intruder will keep you out in front of him and probably too close for comfort , especially if he 's faster than you ( turning the crossing-route collision course into an overtaking collision ) . Lastly , any formulaic maneuver we dream up in a two-plane scenario is going to break down when you add more planes , or restricted airspace , or weather . The maneuver may work in cross-country flight , but when dealing with merging Victor airways near a population center , there will be too many aircraft for any single avoidance maneuver to guarantee you 'll get out of trouble without getting into more . So , ultimately , your call .
At least in the United States the FAA recently ( I think in 2012 ? ) changed the recommendation for transponder operation in the AIM . It now reads : Civil and military transponders should be turned to the " on " or normal altitude reporting position prior to moving on the airport surface to ensure the aircraft is visible to ATC surveillance systems . IN ALL CASES , WHILE IN CONTROLLED AIRSPACE EACH PILOT OPERATING AN AIRCRAFT EQUIPPED WITH AN OPERABLE ATC TRANSPONDER MAINTAINED IN ACCORDANCE WITH 14 CFR SECTION 91.413 MUST OPERATE THE TRANSPONDER , INCLUDING MODE C IF INSTALLED , ON THE APPROPRIATE CODE OR AS ASSIGNED BY ATC . IN CLASS G AIRSPACE , THE TRANSPONDER SHOULD BE OPERATING WHILE AIRBORNE UNLESS OTHERWISE REQUESTED BY ATC . ( Cribbed from <URL> ) So , basically " Turn it on before you taxi , and turn it off right before you shut down the engine . Always use the Altitude mode ( Mode C ) unless ATC tells you otherwise . " In practice having the transponder on while on the airport surface does n't do much unless your field has something like <URL> which plots aircraft transponders on a screen in the tower , but it generally does n't hurt anything and it ensures you do n't forget to turn the transponder on when you take off . Operating your transponder while on the ground may cause " ground clutter " on nearby radar station 's displays ( possibly setting off the conflict-alert system ) - this is why many of us were taught to set our transponders to standby mode while on the ground . In practice this usually is n't an issue , and if it is a problem local ATC will ask you to " squawk standby while taxiing " to resolve the issue . If anyone gives you a hard time about it copy the number and politely quote the AIM .
On light aircraft , polycarbonate windshields have been the norm . On higher speed aircraft , glass is used , particularly with heated windshields . Glass is actually a " plastic " but the polycarbonate plastics and glass have very different properties . Polycarbonate tends to be pretty shatter resistant , although I know a turkey vulture which proved otherwise ( grin ) . It really depends upon the type of aircraft and the design criteria , which include the operations , temperature , heat requirements ( ie hot windshield for de ice ) , weight considerations , EMI considerations ( coatings , etc. ) and so on . Both materials have been in sure for a long time . So what kind of aircraft are you talking about ?
The FAA Air Traffic Organization has issued a booklet titled " <URL> " which was specifically written for pilots and s flight operations personnel . They cover Traffic Flow Management ( TFM ) in great detail ( 68 pages ) but here is a small portion covering the most commonly used traffic management techniques . Each section also includes an extensive " How does it work " sub-section which you can look at if you want more details . I would highly recommend that any pilot read the entire booklet ( while it is 63 pages , it is booklet format so it goes quickly ) ! A GREAT website that the FAA has allows you to see a list of , and the current status of all of the following programs in one place : <URL> Ground delay programs ( GDP ) A Ground Delay Program ( GDP ) is a traffic management procedure where aircraft are delayed at their departure airport in order to manage demand and capacity at their arrival airport . Flights are assigned departure times , which in turn regulates their arrival time at the impacted airport . GDP will normally be implemented at airports where capacity has been reduced because of weather -- such as low ceilings , thunderstorms or wind -- or when demand exceeds capacity for a sustained period . GDPs are implemented to ensure the arrival demand at an airport is kept at a manageable level to preclude extensive holding and to prevent aircraft from having to divert to other airports . They are also used in support of Severe Weather Avoidance Plan ( SWAP ) . ( See section on SWAP . ) Airspace flow programs ( AFP ) Airspace Flow Programs ( AFP ) were introduced in Summer 2006 and marked a significant new step in en route traffic management . The principal goal for the initial deployment was to provide enhanced en route traffic management during severe weather events . An AFP is a traffic management process that identifies constraints in the en route system , develops a real-time list of flights that are filed into the constrained area , and distributes EDCTs to meter the demand through the area . Ground stops ( GS ) A ground stop ( GS ) is a procedure requiring aircraft that meet specific criteria to remain on the ground . The GS may be airport specific , related to a geographical area , or equipment related . Severe weather avoidance plan ( SWAP ) SWAP is a formalized program that is developed for areas susceptible to disruption in air traffic flows caused by thunderstorms . Each air traffic facility may develop its own strategy for managing the severe weather event . Their plan then becomes part of the overall daily operations plan . Special traffic management program ( STMP ) A STMP is a long-range strategic initiative that is implemented when a location requires special handling to accommodate above-normal traffic demand , e.g. , Masters golf tournament , NBAA Convention , etc. . Gate hold Gate hold is not a traffic flow management technique , but is instead used by airports to keep you from starting engines and taxing just sit in line burning fuel when you ca n't takeoff due to a delay program . It makes everybody 's life better if you do n't leave in the first place !
If your parachute fails to open entirely you are almost certainly extremely dead no matter where you land , however occasionally people do survive . A partial failure of a chute is much more survivable . You will be coming down much faster than you would with a good chute , and you are going to get injured , probably badly . Think broken legs and arms with neck or back trauma . You may sustain a concussion as well , and you will certainly go into shock . If you come down in the water you will be injured and unable to keep yourself afloat , and it will be much harder to rescue you . On land help will be much closer and , and as <URL> , you ca n't drown on land . Land has features which may help you survive : trees , vegetation , hay bales , crops , snow , and many other things may cushion your impact enough to make the difference between life and death . Water is the same wherever you go , and does n't have nearly enough give to cushion an impact .
A contrail is a cirrus cloud composed from water vapor nucleating on soot in the engine exhaust and the contrail itself does n't fall to the ground . You will occasionally see cirrus uncinus " mare 's tails " form from contrails , which are heavier ice particles in the contrail precipitating from the contrail . These particles evaporate long before reaching the ground . ( image courtesy of Wikipedia , CC licensed ) The fate of the contrail cloud itself is death via <URL> . Watch some over time as they distort from the winds aloft and then mix with the surrounding dry air and evaporate . Once the contrail is gone and only vapor remains it moves with the air it resides in . For synoptic scale flows , vertical motion of the atmosphere is on the scale of centimeters per second and as such until that vapor finds its way into subsiding air ( e.g. a high pressure system , <URL> ) , it will tend to remain aloft .
The short answer is , it depends . The FAA Airplane Flying Handbook merely states that this can be performed once the aircraft has established positive climb , but does not specify exactly when . Ultimately two situations arise : The airplane is sufficiently large/high performance that normal operating procedures specify the use of flaps for all takeoff scenarios , in which case the manufacturer or the operator ( if applicable ) may well specify a flap retraction schedule , which seeks to allow the aircraft to accelerate effectively during climb out , avoid overstressing the flaps by having the aircraft fly past the maximum speed for each flap setting , while at the same time maintain a comfortable margin above stall speed . The airplane only requires flaps for certain kinds of takeoffs such as maximum performance or soft-field efforts . In that case , procedures may be somewhat looser in defining the exact moment of flap retraction . A climb checklist , should you choose to use one , will likely mention the flap configuration as an action/verification item , so that would likely be a good moment to retract them if you have n't done so already . Personally , I usually retract them passing thru 200-300 feet AGL , which usually coincides to the aircraft being at least half-way between clean configuration Vx and Vy ( I 've been mostly flying Skyhawks , Skylanes , Arrows , and Huskies ) . Whichever way you do it though , you want to avoid retracting them too low and too slow , but also forgetting about them and blowing through Vfe ( which even light , slow airplanes can do quite handily ) . With respect to the actual changes in aircraft behavior the changes , you 'll likely notice the following things : A slight-nose down moment as wing 's characteristics change , which influences the airflow reaching your horizontal stabilizer . The converse applies when extending flaps . Mind you , this is an airplane model-specific thing and one that seemed most noticeable to me in the Cessna family of light singles . Fort he same power setting and pitch attitude , the aircraft will begin to accelerate quicker for each notch of flap retraction . Climb rate is trickier as it is dependent on you power setting , airspeed , and pitch angle ; your inputs will matter . However , generally speaking , the reduction in drag would lead to a greater difference between power available ( or power set ) and power required , so , all things being equal , you would likely see an increase in climb rate .
ATC frequencies do n't change very often , but when they do they are planned well in advance . NOTAM 's are issued ahead of time to let people know , and if the airport has ATIS they will include the new frequency on the ATIS . If it is an enroute frequency , the other controllers will simply hand you off to the new frequency , and you do n't even need to know about it ahead of time .
Looking at the hurricane manuals for a few airports , evacuating flyable aircraft to a safer location tends to be the most common choice . From the <URL> Effective with the issuance of a Storm WARNING and/or Hurricane WARNING : Relocate flyable aircraft to other geographical areas , place under suitable shelter , or secure as appropriate . Also , from the <URL> Upon receipt of a Hurricane Warning , Airside Operations will : Initiate evacuation of all flyable aircraft and post Airfield Operations Senior Agents and Agents in detail to insure compliance and report results .
Can ? Of course they can . Does it make sense ? No , it does not . A VTOL needs thrust at least equal to its weight . That is much more than a fixed-wing aircraft ( HTOL ) needs . Airliners have lift-to-drag ratio around 18 -- 20 . That is in clean configuration ; in landing configuration it might be about half ( ~ 10 ) and we need twice as much thrust in case an engine fails , so around 1/4 weight . So a VTOL would need 4 times as much thrust as a HTOL . Likely more , because the craft would still have to be capable of reasonably controlled landing in case of engine failure . And while rotorcraft can do that by autorotation and pilot of Harrier or F-35B can simply eject , jet-powered civilian VTOL would only have the remaining engines for it . Now fortunately thrust and power are only indirectly related . To create thrust , force must be applied to the air . This force accelerates air , giving it some momentum and some kinetic energy . Thrust is ( change of ) momentum per time and momentum is mass time velocity while power is ( change of ) energy per time and energy is 1/2 mass times speed squared . So we can produce a lot of thrust with little power by accelerating a lot of air by a little . Which means large propeller : a rotor . That 's how helicopters get enough lift/thrust with reasonably small engine . Unfortunately rotors are not very practical for flying fast . One would also be rather difficult to tilt . That 's why V-22 Osprey and Augusta-Westland AW603 use a compromise that is somewhere between ; large enough to still have good efficiency in hover and small enough to be possible to tilt . What would definitely not be efficient for hover is a jet though . Jets are small and ca n't affect that much air ; what they can is accelerate it a lot . That is necessary for flying fast , but it is terribly inefficient when flying slowly . Military jets do n't care . They want so powerful engine to fly very fast anyway and they do n't care for efficiency much as decisive edge in combat is worth a lot of money . But for civilian transport the small advantage of being able to land closer to destination would not outweigh the disadvantage of being several times more expensive to operate . Flying the long distance with HTOL to a nearby airport and , if the destination is not reachable by car , hiring a helicopter just for the final part of the trip ends up being a lot cheaper .
There is a description of this route page <URL> . <URL> The scan is not good , you may get the textual content <URL> . It says terrain following activities may take place , as well as visual contours ( which I assume to be navigating without radar , looking at the outdoor and searching in a catalog the same relief contour to know where you are ) . As you commented , taking into account the local relief : For terrain following should be for newbies . For visual contours navigation should be for top-guns only . There are different routes like this , starting from nowhere and ending in the Smoky MOA . They seem to be routes avoiding nearby airfields . On the image below , I 've emphasized the area without airfields , including MOAs . It looks like IR-504 is drawn along the centerline . <URL> Based on <URL> Other possible selection criteria : Unpopulated areas ( noise from low flying jets ) Low radio noise areas . Flat terrain for UAV training .
The flight instructor certificates held at that point provide all the same privileges . This is not true . A ground instructor certificate is valid to give ground training for all aircraft ... airplane , helicopter , glider , balloon , etc. . A flight instructor must have those ratings on their certificate . Record keeping requirements also differ between the two certificates . <URL> requires the flight instructor to keep a record of all knowledge test endorsements to include the student name , date , kind of test and result . The ground instructor has no such requirement . The flight instructor must also have an advanced or instrument ground instructor certificate to qualify for a gold seal .
The different airspeeds : IAS is indicated airpseed CAS is calibrated airspeed EAS is equivalent airspeed TAS is true airspeed CAS is IAS corrected for instrumentation and position errors . The errors are most pronounced in slow and high angle-of-attack flight . IAS figures in aircraft manuals are actually converted from CAS . For ease of use . <URL> ( Wikipedia link ) . <URL> However , a modern plane with an <URL> ( ADC ) actually displays CAS , despite being labelled as IAS . Below 200 knots and 10,000 feet , for all purposes , CAS equals EAS . As the plane goes faster and higher and compresses the air , the air changes density , an effect known as compressibility that affects the CAS reading . <URL> EAS is computed by the ADC on a modern fast plane , and together with the density altitude , the TAS is then known . Ground speed and track ( from GPS , navaids , and/or INS ) together with the TAS allows the <URL> to calculate and display the wind speed/direction . Before ADC 's , pilots used charts like those in the answer . Summary : In a modern plane , what the pilot actually uses is CAS , despite being labelled IAS . And EAS is used in computing the TAS by the ADC . For engineers , TAS ( actual velocity through the air ) is used in lift equations , EAS is used in calculating dynamic pressures on the plane ( TAS corrected for air density ) . Source used and a must read : <URL>
One thing to note is that ' pure ' air dominance fighter or ground attack aircraft is not being developed anymore . Most of the combat aircraft developed recently/under development are multirole ( or ' omnirole ' ) aircraft . In case of air dominance ( or air superiority ) fighters , which have the task of eliminating enemy air defense system especially fighters and securing aerial control for operation of friendly forces without harassment , the following are important design objectives : High thrust to weight ratio , as it helps in maneuvers . Stealth , as the enemy ca n't shoot what he/she ca n't see . High maneuverability , for close combat situations and evasion . High weapons load , as it enables engagement of a large number of enemy aircraft at once . A good range , as it is better to engage enemy aircraft in their area rather than in friendly territory . A powerful radar to track and engage enemy aircraft , as it enables them to shoot first . Communication links to transfer data between the aircraft and between the AEWACS aircraft , as most of the aircraft today operate in an integrated battlefield . Speed is also a very important parameter . In case of ground support ( or attack ) aircraft , whose primary task is the destruction of enemy logistics and/or support for ground troops under fire , the designers look for similar yet a bit different set of characteristics . Ruggedness , as the aircraft should be able take some amount of punishment and return home . High endurance and Time on Target , as the ground troops may require support for an extended period of time , with corresponding weapons load . Communication links between aircraft and ground troops for obvious reasons . Precision targeting systems for situations where friendlies are in close contact with the enemy troops . Ability to operate from forward operating bases is desirable . Most of the present generation aircraft carry out their ground support duties using precision weaponry rather than any fundamental design decisions . Though there are still trade-offs , as in any aircraft design . The weapon load of stealth aircraft is lesser their non-stealthy counterparts as external weapons carriage increases the radar signature of the aircraft . For ground attack aircraft , a high subsonic speed is more than enough unlike the supersonic air dominance fighters . Low altitude maneuverability is important for ground attack aircraft for quick ingress and egress from the combat area . One aspect of aircraft design is that combat aircraft optimized for high altitude operations can face higher stresses when operating in lower altitudes ( i.e. near ground ) . For example , when USAF switched B-52s from high altitude bombing role to low altitude penetration tactics , it caused increased stress in the airframe .
Below 18,000 feet MSL , En Route Flight Advisory Service ( EFAS ) ( a.k.a. Flight Watch ) is provided on 122.0 MHz . Above this altitude , it is provided on discrete frequencies , with each one serving a specific ARTCC area ( <URL> , <URL> ) . These discrete frequencies are listed in the margin of IFR Enroute High Altitude charts : To answer your original question , the FAA plans to consolidate EFAS onto existing Flight Service Station ( FSS ) frequencies on October 1 , 2015 . Because Lockheed Martin ( the FSS contractor ) has consolidated flight service stations , the EFAS weather briefers are now co-located with Flight Service personnel ( they physically sit next to each other in the same room ) , making it possible to obtain both services on the same frequency . At the same time , the FAA will phase out legacy Remote Airport Advisory Services and more significantly , require the ICAO format for all flight plans ( international AND DOMESTIC ) , see <URL> .
Radio frequencies in the USA are assigned by the <URL> , not the FAA . There 's no ' private ' air-to-ground frequency mentioned in the AIM but <URL> does say that the FCC has assigned 122.900 as a MULTICOM frequency for : Activities of a temporary , seasonal , emergency nature or search and rescue , as well as , airports with no tower , FSS , or UNICOM Arguably your fly-by is " temporary activity " , however the definition of MULTICOM is : A mobile service not open to public correspondence used to provide communications essential to conduct the activities being performed by or directed from private aircraft So if your fly-by is " essential " ( and safe ! ) then I guess you could use 122.9 . There are <URL> for requesting temporary air-to-ground frequencies for air shows , but that 's obviously a special case . As for legality , it seems that <URL> to use an aviation handheld radio on the ground : You may only use your hand-held aircraft VHF radio in your aircraft under the terms of your aircraft license . You are required to have a separate Ground Station license to operate your radio on the ground . But because this is more about FCC regulations than FAA ones , I suggest that you ask on <URL> ; they 'll probably know a lot more about how it all works .
end question
start question
What was the first jet-powered supersonic aircraft ?
<URL> claims to have exceeded Mach 1 in a dive , but the conditions are disputed due to compressibility and later tests that find the aircraft uncontrollable above Mach .84 . The first U.S. fighter plane to exceed Mach 1 in level flight is the <URL> . For research on how the sound barrier was broken as it results to aircraft design is to read <URL> . Wikipedia also has a good read on <URL> that lists aircraft by manufacture date . As for technological innovations , I would suggest reading about the <URL> , specifically <URL> since the air must be slowed sub-sonic before entering the compressor stages .
<URL> is the force or wind generated behind a jet engine , particularly on or before takeoff when high/full power is set , but also when the aircraft is taxiing . When an object moves through air ( or some other medium , e.g. a spoon through nutella ) , air is disturbed . This disturbance or <URL> is known as <URL> . It can also be called <URL> . The difference is that jet blast is only because of engines . Jet wash or prop wash or wake turbulence is because the airplane moves through air . If Mr Kevin Fast runs at say 100 mph doing this ( see picture below ) , you can notice significant wake turbulence , although the engines are off and there is no jet blast .
Here 's another article from Oct 15th . They <URL> . As of the 15th , it was n't clear yet if this engine will be connected and running during the flight , or if it 'll just be there to complete the airframe and act as a counterweight . Leaving the broken engine in place would do more damage to the engine , complicating the investigation . Pieces breaking off from the engine may have damaged the wing , the pylon or the connectors on the pylon ( power , fuel , electronics etc. ) , they need to inspect for damage before deciding if the spare engine can be connected and running . The plane will be empty for the recovery flight , so there 's some margin to fly on 3 engines . They have to account for the possibility of an engine failure , leaving 2 operational engines , so the flight is planned to ETOPS rules . It seems <URL> is to take off with 2 engines at full power and the third at idle , to reduce the effects of asymmetric thrust . If the engine is left off and windmilling , it needs lubrication , this may limit the length of the flight .
As always , it depends . From what I 've seen and read , it 's usually redone every 5-10 years . This can vary on various factors from paintshop availability , to new color scheme rollout , to deterioration of the previous one due to bad painting , to quality of the paint used . Sometimes , special liveries are just an aviation specific sticker that 's put onto an aircraft , other times it 's fully painted onto the aircraft , just depending on the airline , the planned length of time for it to be special , and any other considerations .
The RB211 as found on the L-1011 ( first flight Nov 16 , 1970 ) had a fuel control amplifier that , while it was not the primary control of the engine , was capable of controlling fuel flow . <URL> <URL> <URL>
The noise within the engine will make all flow turbulent . There is not much liberty for the engine designer to choose the type of boundary layer . Generally , a laminar boundary layer is preferable as long as the flow is accelerated , because viscous drag will be lower , and a turbulent one is better when it is decelerated , so <URL> . Outside of boundary layer phenomena , turbulence is helpful for keeping the <URL> going in the combustor and especially in the afterburner . Ahead of the combustor all engines have a diffusor to <URL> , so it has time to mix with the fuel and burn as much of it as possible . Note that the diffusor only slows down the axial movement of the air , so radial velocities will not be affected and be relatively larger relative to the axial flow at the entry of the combustion chamber . This makes the flow more turbulent , which is helpful for better fuel-air mixing . In the afterburner , flame holders are needed to produce pockets of slow-moving , hot gas which can ignite the fuel-air mixture . Again , they cause more turbulence . <URL> Flame holder ( 10 ) with annular selectors ( 9 ) of an afterburner ( picture <URL> ) At the nozzle , turbulent mixing of the hot core flow and the bypass flow reduces noise . Engine nozzles use a <URL> to speed up the mixing process .
After a new captain is done with schoolhouse training ( classroom and simulator ) they will fly on-line as a captain and will have a training captain in the right seat . After some number of flights ( for me it was a 4-day pairing ) you will be joined by a check airman in the jumpseat and have a line check . Once you pass the line check if you are a first time captain you are a high minimums captain for your first 100 hours and then a normal captain . During high mins time you are subject to a few restrictions in approaches you can fly . All the flying after the line check is with normal ( low time ) first officers .
Summary No . The aspects that are talked about now are not the ones talked about then . My ( hazy ) recollection is of concerns that the A320 lacked a system of cables and pulleys of the sort used by the Wright brothers . Perhaps pilots of the time had more focused concerns but I do n't recall them making the front pages of newspapers . In the 1980s there was discussion of Airbus flight control systems but the discussion focused on factors that were not involved in the most notable A320 crashes in the late '80s and early 90 's . Several Airbus accidents seem to be at least partly the result of pilots lack of familiarity with sophisticated aircraft systems in general rather than with features that are not found in other aircraft . The Airbus control system The main innovations by Airbus were the application to civil airliners of designs that had previously only been used on other types of aircraft . Fly by wire . No mechanical cables , pulleys and associated friction . Sidesticks . To provide clearer view of displays and greater pilot comfort . Flight envelope protection . To prevent excessive inputs stalling or damaging the airframe . Transfer of control Airbus spent some time comparing and investigating support for transfer of control between pilots , including in emergency situations . They investigated pilot preferences for several approaches to this . They revisited this aspect over the years and it has become a point of focus since the AF447 report . However it does n't seem to have been a particular point of controversy in 1987 . Perhaps few people in the 1980s fully realized the extent to which pilots can operate independently and antagonistically in severe emergencies and the degree to which teamwork and communication disappears . There were multiple severe accidents briefly after the entry into service of the A320 You mean these : 26 June 1988 , <URL> . Pilots flew aircraft into trees during unrehearsed demonstration flight at unfamiliar aerodrome after mistaking trees for grass on approach . 14 February 1990 <URL> . Idle/open descent mode engaged and pilots failed to act as aircraft descended into terrain near airport . 20 January 1992 <URL> . Aircraft flown into terrain after autopilot incorrectly put into vertical speed mode and entered numbers appropriate for flight-angle mode . Air Inter had chosen not to equip aircraft with ground proximity warning system . The total number of hull-loss accidents for the 320 does n't seem high compared to other aircraft , but it 's hard to compare the numbers if you do n't take into account fleet size , cycles flown etc. . the A320 seems to have a very aggressive manipulation of the aircraft controls I 'm not sure what you mean by " aggressive manipulation " but that seems an extreme view . The Airbus systems are a progressive development of existing trends . The accidents were largely the result of pilots setting inappropriate modes in systems like the autopilot . The accidents apparently did n't arise because of , for example , the way the control sticks operate . Was there ever any questioning of the Airbus augmented control prior to the introduction to service ? By " augmented control " I guess you mean features like the flight envelope protection that prevents pilot inputs from overloading the airframe . That does n't seem to have been controversial . The only controversy was over two items that had been used in military aircraft but not in commercial passenger aircraft fly by wire sidesticks These do n't seem to have been a large factor in the specific accidents mentioned above . Further reading : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
The jury ( i.e. FAA ) is still out on this question as of early June 2014 . FAA has indicated it will not give a gasoline " fuel allowance " to be credited against weight for batteries . Given that fuel weighs 6 lbs . per gallon , or 30 lbs . for the maximum legal gas an ultralight can carry , it would be a somewhat negligible , but certainly welcome , allowance for would-be electric manufacturers . One company , Chip Erwin of AeroMarine , has imported a barebones ultralight motorglider based on the Goat towed ultralight glider . It 's called the <URL> , and carries batteries enough for 30-40 mins . of flight , without exceeding the 254-lb . weight limit of the part 103 category . In time the FAA may well decide to grant the allowance . It 's still not going to amount to much more time , maybe 10 minutes given current battery energy density , which is a fraction of the energy density of gasoline , but research into electric storage is at a feverish pace worldwide . Look for sport , then commercial electric aircraft , within the next 5 to 10 years . Several electric single and two-seat electrics are already flying . The Airbus ducted fan , recently ballyhooed as the first electric aircraft , which it certainly is n't , is a promising look at one way commercial electric applications might come to market .
There 's one I can think of immediately , and that 's the granddaddy of them all , the <URL> . The X-1 's control system was unassisted and it had no hydraulic system . The only part of the control system that was assisted was the horizontal stabilizer , which was <URL> . I think most of the early supersonic test airplanes were mechanically operated .
The " wop wop " , usually known as blade slap , is heard when the tip of the blade passes through the vortex created by the previous one . It can be avoided . The most common flight regime when this happens is a shallow descent but still with quite a lot of power - e.g. fast and shallow . The vortex starts to move down as soon as it leaves the tip of the blade so in level flight , the following blade passes over it . In a shallow descent with high pitch angle , the following blade can literally " slap " into the previous vortex . The vortices of the two blades now interact and can cause local , transient supersonic flow . To avoid it , simply lower the pitch to establish a more positive descent or pull back on the cyclic to increase disc loading and flatten the attitude . The blade tips do not go supersonic . In fact , in nearly all helicopter designs , the rotor rotates within a very narrow range of speeds , typically between 90 % and 110 % of the normal speed . In most flight regimes , the rotor is rotating at 100 % , + / - a few percent , whether you are climbing , descending or cruising . Only during auto-rotation and aggressive manoeuvring does the range vary by 10 % or more . It depends on the type of helicopter but absolute limits would be something like 85 % ( panic time , risk of complete stall ) and 115 % ( smaller panic , risk of damage to the machine , especially in the tail rotor drive shaft ) . In normal operations , and design aims to achieve this , the rotor tips do not go supersonic since when they do , there is a sudden and large decrease in performance with more power required , higher blade loads , vibration and noise . Think about a helicopter flying forwards . The advancing blade at its most perpendicular position experiences a relative airflow which is equal ( ignoring all kinds of minor side effects ) to the forward speed plus the speed of the blade . The retreating blade is experiencing a relative airflow equal to the speed of the blade minus the speed of the helicopter . If the blades rotate so fast that the tips are supersonic , then the main lift generating part of the retreating blade , the outer two thirds of the span , would experience such a low airspeed , for some of the span it will even be negative , that the blades will stall causing a catastrophic roll into that side . It is this phenomenon which ultimately limits the rotational speed of the blades and the maximum speed of the helicopter . Let 's look at the R22 as an example . The following figures are approximate . The rotor tip speed is about 670 fps ( feet per second ) . The speed of sound at ground level on a standard day is about 1100 fps . The R22 is flying at close to VNE , let 's say 100kts which is about 170 fps . The tip on the advancing side , at it 's fastest , is therefore flying relative to the airflow at 840 fps and on the retreating side , at it 's slowest , at 500 fps . The blade length is about 11 feet , so the middle portion of the blade on the retreating side is only flying at 190 fps ( half of 670 minus the airspeed ) . When you get to about 4 feet out from the blade root , it 's now only 50 fps and not much further in from that , becomes zero , then negative . Remember that lift is proportional to the square of the speed . You can now see the huge discrepancy between lift on either side as airspeed increases . To answer your question directly , the R22 would need to fly at 530 fps to approach supersonic tip speed which equates to about 330 kts which it ca n't get anywhere near achieving . PS . The R22 POH speaks in Imperial measures . When I get some time , I 'll redo the figures in metric which I , and most of the world , prefer .
One reason is interception ( with interceptor , not missiles ) . Defence is probably more important . Defence with fighters is still important for three reasons : There are relatively effective counter-measures against surface-to-air missiles . A fighter pilot can adjust the strategy to the counter-measures encountered , missile ca n't . In peace or limited conflict situations it is often not known whether a suspicious target is hostile at all and the only way to identify it is to have a fighter fly to it and have the pilot identify it with their eyes . Fighter can also do other things than use lethal force . In peace time you generally do n't want to shot down an intruding military aircraft of another country straight away . Fighter can chase it away from your territory or can try to arrest it ( force it to land on your own airbase ) . And fighters are also used to identify and possibly navigate to safety civil aircraft that lost radio contact . So when a potentially hostile aircraft is detected entering your territory , fighters are sent to intercept it and help it , arrest it or shot it down depending on what it turns out to be . If the fighters are slower than the intruder , they may not be able to intercept it at all ( they do n't usually know where it is flying so they ca n't wait for it ) . The faster they are , the larger area they can defend . In this case the interceptors take off without external fuel tanks ( as they wo n't be flying very far ) and with only relatively small air-to-air missiles , so they can fly fast . Conversely if you try to penetrate the enemy territory , flying faster limits the number of fighters that can intercept you . However in this case it is more useful to rely on stealth or flying low to evade detection , so attack aircraft often are either not supersonic or have lower maximum speed .
Much longer take-off distance and less endurance , but higher speed at all altitudes with jets . The performance advantage of jets widened with increasing altitude and resulted in a higher service ceiling . Both the <URL> and the <URL> would fly at least 100 km/h faster than any propeller airplane , and the Ar-234 could fly reconnaissance missions over France and England in complete impunity . A Me-262 test variant ( 262 V9 ) with a low-profile canopy reached 600 MPH in level flight . This gave jets the possibility to break off combat at will . They could only be engaged with success when they were flying for a landing with empty tanks or by chance , when the jet pilot was unaware of his opponent . Since the Me-262 was designed to intercept bomber formations , it was not suited for dogfights . The <URL> , on the other hand , was evaluated in 1943 against a FW-190 and would easily outturn the propeller aircraft , so this was not an engine-related characteristic .
It 's the <URL> : The yaw string dates from the earliest days of aviation , and actually was the first flight instrument . Picture : <URL> <URL>
According to the FAA in <URL> : ( b ) The applicant should validate and maintain the accuracy of the engine flight cycle over the life of the design . The extent of the validation depends on the approach taken in the development of the engine flight cycle . For example , a conservative flight cycle where all the variables are placed at the most life damaging value would require minimum validation . A flight cycle that attempts to accurately represent the actual flight profile , but is inherently less conservative , would require more extensive validation . Applicants may apply further refinements to the engine flight cycle when significant field operational data is obtained .
In the Falcon 50 and 900 , we have windshield wipers that we are allowed to use in flight ( up to 205 KIAS ) , but I have never used or seen them used in the eight years that I have been flying them because they simply are n't needed . They are usually stowed out of the wind stream so do n't really cause much drag . The Learjet 's on the other hand DO have hot air that blows on the windshield and we sometimes used it to blow water droplets off of the windshield when on the ground . However , the primary purpose of the hot air was to heat and defog the windshield . On a larger airplane , the additional piping , valves , etc. required to get the hot air all of the way up to the windshield actually weighs and costs more than just putting the windshield wipers up there along with electrically heated windshields to keep them from fogging up .
Well , engines and rotors obey the same laws regarding induced drag ( induced power in this case ) as wings : larger fan/propeller/rotor is more efficient , but limited to lower speeds . And from that , the advantages should be obvious : Tiltrotors ( <URL> , <URL> ) are only a little less efficient in hover than normal helicopters , but they can only go around 300 knots ( both aircraft have max speed quoted at 275 knots ) ; above that , the tips would become supersonic and generate too much drag . These can be built with engines similar to what a comparable fixed-wing turboprop aircraft would need and can cary comparable payloads with only slightly higher fuel burn . The <URL> is a product for civilian market aiming at charter operators supplying oil platforms and similar remote stations where it should be more efficient than helicopter . The main disadvantage is that they are more complex and therefore more expensive to build and maintain . Tiltjets/vectored thrust jets ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) are horribly inefficient in hover , but they can go fast . Jet engine for thrust/weight ratio 1 ( needed for hover ) takes up most of the aircraft , leaving very little room for payload . Such design and thrust/weight ratio is common in fighters , but out of question for anything else . This configuration also consumes a lot of fuel for take-off and landing . Absolutely no way would anything like that be competitive for commercial operation . However , the military is willing to pay it if they can have a fighter jet that can be deployed from an assault ship . And even they prefer conventional aircraft when possible . This is really niche design , but one that offers enough tactical advantage that the Marines and the Royal Navy want it ( US Navy will use the conventional <URL> with <URL> , Royal Navy decided it will be cheaper to use the <URL> <URL> version than upgrading the carrier they are building to <URL> ) . I ca n't really compare maintenance . Obviously both are more complex than conventional aircraft and even than helicopters . But also , anything military is usually much more maintenance intensive than civilian designs , because military usually wants to squeeze out every bit of performance at the cost of simplicity .
It was the <URL> and the <URL> , both introduced in 1943 . The DC-3 had hydraulic flaps , but the Connie was the first to have hydraulic flight controls . The DC‐3 had wings flaps powered by hydraulics ( 1934 ) . But it was n't until the early 1940s that hydraulics were used to power the primary flight control surfaces on the Lockheed Constellation and P‐80 ( first US Jet Aircraft ) . Source : <URL> ( PDF ) Also in 1943 , the <URL> version of the WWII fighter aircraft was fitted with hydraulic boosted ailerons . Source : <URL>
Background : These days , Rolls-Royce is not any more in the business of selling engines , but <URL> . The engines send telemetry data to four centers , the biggest one in Derby , in Great Britain , where every engine is under surveillance . An inspection can be scheduled at or spare parts can be directed to the right destination even before the pilots or the airline know that one of their engines has a problem . By now , 80 % of Rolls-Royce engines are sold at a loss which is recouped by a hourly fee paid under the <URL> program , and that center in Derby is monitoring maybe 4000 of them at the same time . Rolls-Royce has accumulated a treasure of engine operations data , which enables it to consult airlines on best practices . This makes it very hard for a third party to steal maintenance business from Rolls-Royce . All maintenance cost is covered by the TotalCare fee which now accounts for more than half of Rolls-Royce 's revenue . Other engine manufacturers have begun to copy this approach , and both Airbus and Boeing now offer similar programs for airframe surveillance and maintenance to their customers . I wonder how Air France KLM can get at the data from the engines . My impression is that Rolls-Royce is in a different position , and third parties can not compete on an equal basis . Airlines can rent out their shop capacity to others , but the specific business model of Rolls-Royce is directly coupled to them being the manufacturer of those engines and owner of the data it creates .
What you say is true only for turbojets . Generally , all optimum points for propeller-driven aircraft are at lower speeds than those of jet aircraft . The reason is the variation of thrust with speed : For propellers , thrust is inverse to speed , while it is roughly constant over speed for turbojet aircraft in the subsonic speed range . Specifically , the optimum angle of climb condition can be expressed as $ $ \ frac { \ delta \ gamma } { \ delta c_L } = 0 $ $ If we assume a quadratic polar and an expression for thrust which lets us model an exponential variation of thrust over speed ( $ T = T_0 · v ^ { n_v } $ ) , we can write this condition as $ $ \ frac { \ delta \ gamma } { \ delta c_L } = - \ frac { n_v } { 2 } · c_L ^ { - \ frac { n_v } { 2 } -1 } · \ frac { T_0 · ( m · g ) ^ { \ frac { n_v } { 2 } -1 } } { \ left ( \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } · S _ { ref } \ right ) ^ { \ frac { n_v } { 2 } } } + \ frac { c _ { D0 } } { c_L ^ 2 } - \ frac { 1 } { \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } $ $ The general solution is $ $ c _ { L _ { { \ gamma _ { max } } } } = - \ frac { n_v } { 4 } · \ frac { T · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } { m · g } + \ sqrt { \ frac { n_v ^ 2 } { 16 } · \ left ( \ frac { T · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } { m · g } \ right ) ^ 2 + c _ { D0 } · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } $ $ For jets ( $ n_v = 0 $ ) the solution is quite simple , because the thrust terms are proportional to the thrust coefficient $ n_v $ and disappear : $ $ c _ { L _ { { \ gamma _ { max } } } } = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } $ $ For turbofan and propeller aircraft , we have less luck and get a much longer formula . This is the one for propellers ( $ n_v = -1 $ ) : $ $ c _ { L _ { { \ gamma _ { max } } } } = \ frac { T · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } { 4 · m · g } + \ sqrt { \ left ( \ frac { T · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } { 4 · m · g } \ right ) ^ 2 + c _ { D0 } · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } $ $ To arrive from here at a flight speed , I recommend to look up the speed in a polar . Solving this analytically will get messy . Below I have plotted a generic climb speed over air speed chart for different thrust loadings of a typical turbofan . The blue lines show thrust ( right Y-axis ) and the green lines the resulting climb speed . The two black lines show how the optimum flight speed for best climb speed and best climb angle ( steepest climb ) vary over thrust loadings . They are easy to find graphically : Pick the tops of the green curves for best climb and the steepest tangent from the origin of the coordinate system to the green lines for best climb angle . Note that they cross when moving from positive to negative climb speeds . With a propeller , the results will look similar , however , the best climb speed line would be vertical . This will collect all optima at the low speed range of the plot - using a turbofan makes the effects easier to see because the optima are spread out more . <URL> Climb optima for different thrust loadings ( own work ) The optimum climb speed ( which is proportional to $ \ frac { 1 } { c_L ^ 2 } $ ) varies inversely with the square of the thrust loading ( $ \ frac { T _ { ref } } { m · g } $ ) ² of the aircraft . With lots of excess thrust , the optimum is limited by the stall speed ( the black line bends into a vertical trend ) , while with no excess thrust both optimum speeds $ v_x $ and $ v_y $ converge . This makes sense : If thrust is just sufficient to keep the airplane from descending at one speed , this speed will both give the best flight path angle and the best vertical speed ( unfortunately , both will be 0 at this point ) . It also helps to reduce induced drag , so aircraft with a high aspect ratio wing will climb steepest at a higher lift coefficient ( = lower speed ) . The steepest climb optimum looks a little more compact if we use the induced drag coefficient directly : $ $ c _ { L _ { \ gamma _ { max } } } = \ frac { 2 · m · g · ( c _ { D0 } - c _ { Di } ) } { T } $ $ but since the lift coefficient is hidden again in the induced drag term , and so sits on both sides of the equation , it is much harder to draw conclusions from this version . Nomenclature : $ c_L \ :\ :\ : $ lift coefficient $ n_v \ :\ :\ : $ thrust exponent , as in $ T \ sim v ^ { n_v } $ $ T \ :\ :\ :\ : $ thrust $ m \ :\ :\ :\ : $ mass $ g \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ gravitational acceleration $ \ pi \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ 3.14159 $ \ dots $ $ AR \ :\ : $ aspect ratio of the wing $ \ epsilon \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ the wing 's Oswald factor $ c _ { D0 } \ : $ zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { Di } \ :\ : $ induced drag coefficient
end question
start question
What methods exist to detect airframe icing , and how do they work ?
There are a few ways to sense ice on an airframe . The <URL> here that outlines the various types of sensors . First and foremost planes have ice lights that project onto the wings so they can be visually inspected . There are <URL> that use a variety of methods to detect ice . There are also some electro mechanical devices , here are a few examples , the rest are outlined in the <URL> . Penny and Giles The Penny and Giles system uses a probe type sensor that measures ice buildup in terms of Liquid Water Content ( LWC ) . This system was designed specifically for use on helicopters and is available for all turbine-powered helicopters . Rosemount The sensing probe is driven magnetostrictively to vibrate at its resonant frequency of 40,000 Hz . As the ice detector enters an icing environment , ice collects on the sensing probe . The added mass of the accreted ice causes the frequency of the sensing probe to decrease in accordance with the laws of classical mechanics . Sunstrand The Sunstrand system uses a mounted probe with a sensing surface facing the airstream . Beta particles are released from a Strontium 90 Radiation Source and are collimated by a specially shaped window in the probe housing . These particles pass across the sensing surface to a Geiger-Muller tube . High voltage is applied to the Geiger-Muller tube to enable it to detect the radiation emitted by the Strontium 90 source . Ice accretion on the probe decreases the beta particles detected by the tube . When the particle count drops below a pre-set level , a pulse rate discriminating amplifier energizes an icing signal visible to the flight crew . At this time a heater inside the probe is activated , the ice is removed from the probe , and the probe is ready to begin another icing cycle . Some of these will work in a static situation while others may require the passage from a non icing environment to an icing situation .
I am not sure about all aircraft types , but on the 777 cabin pressure is still used to positively lock the door into position in flight . When the door is open , the door is in a slightly raised position . As the door is closed , rollers on the door are lowered into tracks on the door frame . The tracks are curved slightly outwards , so to open the door the it most be moved slightly inward , which is impossible even with a slight amount of cabin pressure . The actual pressure load on the door is carried through the stops , which are inboard on the door and outboard on the frame . Once loaded with the pressure , these stops would also have a tremendous amount of friction preventing the door from sliding upward . Note the vent door near the top of the door in the picture below , this door is attached to the latching mechanism and it opens in the first movement of the handle , again preventing the door from unlatching if the cabin is pressurized . Refer to this picture of the 777 door , to see the rollers , tracks and stops ( <URL> ) . <URL> I believe the 777 design is very similar to the Airbus design . There is a very good video showing the operation of Airbus doors on YouTube , <URL> . It shows how the door must be lifted above the stops , before it can open outward . If you watch closely you can see the move slight inboard before lifting . This is a quote from the A340 maintenance manual : The lifting arms of the lifting shaft ( which support the passenger door in roller fittings attached to the door frame ) move the passenger door a small distance into the cabin and then upwards . " Note , some people ( including Airbus and Boeing ) still consider these doors plug designs since pressure still loads the door against the stops . For example , Boeing specifically states the 777 doors are plug type doors .
PPL is <URL> May fly for pleasure or personal business . Private pilots can not be paid , compensated to fly , or hired by any operator . CPL is <URL> Can be paid , compensated to fly , or hired by operators and are required to have higher training standards than private or sport pilots . ATPL is <URL> ATPs , as they are called , typically qualify to fly the major airliners . ATPs must qualify with a range of experience and training to be considered for this certificate . -- <URL>
The key point here is that your body does not measure blood oxygen levels . Instead , the urge to breathe is caused by a surplus of carbon dioxide in your blood . At sea level , this is fine : the only way to get so much carbon dioxide in your blood is if you used up all the oxygen . At higher altitudes , the pressure is lower , and consequently the oxygen partial pressure . Since the rate of diffusion in your lungs is a function of pressure , this means that oxygen will diffuse less readily into your blood . At the same time , carbon dioxide diffuses more readily out of your blood due to the low pressure . This reduces your urge to breathe ; you do not feel ' out of breath ' . See <URL> . At even higher altitudes , the pressure is actually so low that breathing will cause oxygen to diffuse out of your blood ; you can breathe as much as you want but the partial pressure of oxygen in your blood will never be higher than the partial oxygen pressure in the air . This is why oxygen masks work ( even if they 're not airtight ) : they replace all air near your nose and mouth with oxygen , so that the partial pressure of oxygen equals the total atmospheric pressure rather than the usual ~ 21 % . See <URL> and <URL> Wikipedia page , or for example <URL> . Somewhat related : at sea level , you can also run out of oxygen before you feel the urge to breathe . You might think that breathing deeply before having to hold your breath for a long time increases the amount of oxygen in your blood , increasing your endurance . This is only partially true : it also artificially reduces your carbon dioxide levels , reducing your urge to breathe . This way , you can <URL> , which can be dangerous under water !
In a constant speed prop , the prop control lever basically changes the speed of the prop ( it is not always running at the same speed as you indicate in your question , but rather once the speed is changed by the prop control lever , the governor keeps it at that speed ) . If power ( or airspeed ) is changed , the blade angle will automatically change in order to keep the prop turning at the same speed ( within the limits that it is designed for ) . Since adding power would normally increase the speed of the prop , the governor automatically changes the blade angle in order to keep it at the same speed . The same is true when power is reduced or airspeed is changed . Thrust is changed by engine power because , even though the prop is turning at the same speed , the angle of attack of the prop has been changed , which changes the amount of thrust . For more general information about how a constant speed prop works , see this question and answers : <URL>
This depends on the type of radar system and its intended application . <URL> . The early radars could not tell the difference between aircraft types , any kind of movement was coordinated beforehand on the friendly side and anything that was not pre-arranged was considered foe . The early <URL> that resided on the <URL> could be trigger by as little as a dense flock of birds . The early radar data from the <URL> was processed on the <URL> a very early ( very primitive ) system for coordinating a great deal of weather , radar , and flight information . After WWII and through out the cold war era newer tech was built to solve the issue of coordination . The modern <URL> that is now in use provides at least some way to pick apart radar targets . With the advent of modern computer processing and the ability to analyze radar returns beyond <URL> it is possible to determine ( with great certainty ) the make of an aircraft by its <URL> ( and in some cases thermal signature ) . Also known as <URL> . Everything ( <URL> ) have a radar cross section and once a cross section has been identified it could be used again to check against future pings . One could go as far as to say there is some historical precedent around this . The general idea of " if it comes from over there is one of them , if it comes from over hear its one of us " is very much how <URL> and the identification of the actual plane was less important than identifying that it was there . If an unidentified target entered a radar area and did not identify its self , over the radio , with some kind of transponder and or at a preordained time it was intercepted . Not until visual identification was made was it not longer considered a threat . Here in the states by 2020 the civilian world will be sending <URL> to supplement ( and potentially replace ) radar returns .
There is more to a T-tail than that : Aerodynamics : The placement on top of the vertical gives it more leverage , especially with a swept tail . Depending on wing location , it stays in undisturbed flow in a stall . Note : This is really depending on the details , the <URL> had a forward swept wing and a T-tail , which made a <URL> possible ( and in one case fatal ) . By designing the junction with the vertical well , the T-tail has less interference drag . It also helps to reduce wave drag , especially when using a well designed Küchemann body ( the round , long , spiky thing on the tail junction of a Tu-154 ) by stretching the structure lengthwise . It can help to increase the effectiveness of the vertical tail by keeping the air on both sides of it separated . At the other end , the fuselage does this already , so moving the horizontal tail up does not hurt so much there . As a consequence , the tail can be built lower . Structure : The mass of the horizontal tail on a long lever arm ( = the vertical tail ) means that the torsional eigenfrequency of the fuselage will go down . This might be a problem in case of flutter . As a consequence of the smaller vertical tail , a T-tail can be lighter . Note that the increased leverage means that the horizontal tail can be smaller as well . This reduces friction drag and is the main reason why most modern gliders have T-tails . Control : A T-tail produces a strong nose-down pitching moment in sideslip . If it were not for the flutter and pitch-down , T-tails would be more widespread ...
The VOR and ILS CDI indicates difference , in degrees , between the radial selected and the radial sensed . If the plane was far from the VOR and we turn the course pointer 5 degrees , the CDI will move to one side . If the plane was close to the VOR and we turned the course pointer 5 degrees , the CDI would move exactly as much , because it indicates the angular difference in degrees . This is in contrast to a CDI slaved to GPS , which indeed indicates lateral distance from the selected track in miles ( en-route ; GPS approach has to simulate ILS ) . VOR does nothing with DME . DME is completely independent piece of equipment that was introduced later than VOR . The only relation is that there is a standard correspondence between VOR and DME channels and the DME receiver automatically tunes to the DME frequency corresponding to the VOR or ILS frequency tuned on your VOR/ILS receiver .
There are actually a couple of different towing mechanisms out there . You 've got your traditional banner pick , with the ropes and the hooks and all that , but there 's also a new type of billboard mechanism that allows a tow aircraft to take off with the billboard already attached ; it unfurls as the aircraft gains altitude , and can eliminate a potential inefficiency in the process ( some days are worse for banner picks than others due to high winds , turbulence , etc. ) , but it limits the tow aircraft to some pretty small billboards and letter banners are pretty much a no-go . Talking about the traditional method of banner towing , there are a couple of things to cover . The banner/billboard setup on the ground - they will be attached to a tow rope ( usually about 200 feet long ) with a loop at the end . This loop is strung out between two poles a small distance apart . The goal of a banner pick is to have the hook pass between the poles , thru the loop ; do that and you will be able to pick the banner off the ground . The banner or billboard will be laid down upwind of the poles ( with the tow rope fully extended ) , so that the pick takes place into the wind ; the lower ground speed will help with timing and allow the banner or billboard to come off the ground more smoothly . A small windsock is a common addition next to the poles to make it easier for the pilot to spot them and to give some local wind information . The banners and billboards may be set up parallel to a runway ( usually the active runway ) , or there may be a designated spot elsewhere on the field . The hook itself is attached to aircraft with a tow hitch and it is possible to have multiple hitches on the same aircraft ( highest number i ever saw was 4 on a Piper Pawnee ) ; they get used sequentially i.e. drop the hook , pick up the banner , fly the banner , drop the banner , drop the next hook , pick up the next banner , fly said banner , and so on until you run out of hooks . Most of the time , hooks that are not in use will be tied down somewhere accessible to the pilot who will drop them manually . That Pawnee I mentioned earlier , however , had the hooks attached to hitches on the aircraft 's belly , from where they would be released with a switch , so there 's more than one way to skin a cat . The hooks are normally attached prior to engine start and the pilot needs to make sure there is no slack in the line , to avoid it becoming entangled in rudder or elevator cables ( more on that later ) , or other assorted bits and pieces of equipment . Banner tow procedures Take off is normal , but depending on your hook and cockpit setup , you may have to hold the hook in your throttle hand as you 're taking off ( this was the case with the Husky I towed in ) . Be careful not to hit anything with it . After climbing through about 50 feet AGL , side-step the runway , and drop the hook . Procedure varies depending on your setup , but we used to extend the arm holding the hook as far out the window as we could get , give a gentle tap on the rudder to kick the tail out of the way and toss the hook outwards and away from the airplane . Kicking the rudder was important due to the way the rudder control cables ran in the Husky ; we had one pilot who did n't and nearly wrecked when the rope got fouled around the cables , forcing a rudder hard-over once there was tension in the line after the pick - fortunately he was a big guy and the runway was sufficiently long that he was able to overpower the rudder and make a safe landing . Tossing the hook outwards is important lest it get caught up in the propwash and bang against the skin of the aircraft . Again , this happened ( was n't me though ) . Coming around for the banner pick - depending on where the banners are set up , you may end up flying almost a regular traffic pattern , but it usually happens at much lower altitudes ( 5-600 feet ) and the banner tow waiver may require that you avoid flying over populated areas to do so , so you may end up flying , say a right-hand pattern instead of your regular left . Either way you end up doing it , you want to end up downwind of the poles , similarly , if you will , to coming in for landing . The actual banner pick - this is where you 'll see a lot of variation . Some outfits will come in flat , just above the poles and pull up once they pass them ( unusual , but some do it that way ) , others will come in high and dive towards the poles , and pull up once past them ( it 's very pretty and dramatic , but not a lot of room for error IMO ) . We used to be a bit more sedate about it , and came in as if for a landing , with the goal of touching down at the top of the banner ( i.e. the end nearest to you ) . Obviously , you have to correct for crosswind , which you can do by shifting your line left or right depending on wind direction ; the goal is to place the hook , which is trailing behind you and getting blown about by the wind , between the poles . Either way you do it , once you pass the poles , you pitch up immediately to at least 45 degrees or so , and apply f
( I am assuming your question is asking about the FAA regulations . ) If you already have a PPL , then the requirements are modest . According to the <URL> : Additional Pilot Rating Holders of a valid FAA Power plane license with 40 hours as pilot-in-command need a minimum of 10 solo flights to qualify to take the glider flight test . No written exam is required to add a glider rating to a power license . In all cases , refer to the Federal Aviation Regulations for details on pilot licensing .
From a single spotting location , then yes by training . But for any location , then it 's very hard . <URL> when the sound reflects off the surrounding surfaces , e.g. , ground , buildings , etc. . And when the sound comes from above . Most mammals are adept at resolving the location of a sound source using interaural time differences and interaural level differences . However , no such time or level differences exist for sounds originating along the circumference of circular conical slices , where the cone 's axis lies along the line between the two ears . Consequently , sound waves originating at any point along a given circumference slant height will have ambiguous perceptual coordinates . That is to say , the listener will be incapable of determining whether the sound originated from the back , front , top , bottom or anywhere else along the circumference at the base of a cone at any given distance from the ear . Tilting your head might help though . So much so , airplane spotters in WWII judging only by sound <URL> and the entire Luftwaffe was sent looking in the wrong direction , only to realize the direction reported was incorrect and they had to land once they started running out of fuel . Göring freely admitted the laugh was on him , that he had sent the Luftwaffe on a mammoth tour of their own air space . But with computers it can be done using <URL> . Or good old <URL> : <URL> ( <URL> ) Chinese soldiers man a sound detector which directs the firing of 3-inch anti-aircraft guns , around the city of Chongqing , China , on May 2 , 1941 . P.S. Same problem arises when trying to figure out where an artillery fire is coming from or going to .
HUD The most common form of head-Up Display ( <URL> ) is simply an out-of-sight display screen reflected in a transparent flat sheet of glass in the viewers line of sight out the cockpit front window . The glass sheet is called a combiner . It combines the HUD information with the view out of the aircraft . There are coatings for glass ( <URL> ) which allow for reflecting a monochromatic image while allowing transmission of other colors . The display is obviously tailored for that specific use . It must avoid obscuring the view . Therefore it mostly consists of minimal light-colored lines and numerals/letters against a dark background . The dark background allows the pilot to see through the reflection to brighter objects outside - it 's a bit like the matt black upper surface typically found on many car dashboards which prevents distracting unwanted images of the top of the dash being reflected into the driver 's view out of the windscreen . Here 's an example from <URL> A HUD display is visible on the left in the pilot 's line of sight . Above it , mounted on the ceiling is the projector unit . The Projector contains optics to make the pilot 's view of the display appear to be at infinity ( rather than the few feet away it is in reality ) . This allows the pilot to read the data while their eyes are focused on far-away real-world objects outside the aircraft ( runways , weather , other aircraft etc ) . EFVS Beyond the projection of basic flight instrument data is the use of HUDs for Enhanced Flight Vision Systems ( <URL> ) which provide a kind of augmented reality display that typically uses external infra-red camera systems to identify landmarks ( e.g. runway outlines ) that may be obscured to the pilot due to fog etc. .
Technically one could develop a system that compares the decrease in weight-on-wheels during the take-off run to a theoretical lift model in order to determine whether the wings are performing as expected . I see a number of reasons why this will not be successful a product : Limited benefits : The benefit of such a system is minimal . There are very few crashes due to contaminated wings or wrong flap/slat configurations . Let 's assume there are one hundred thousand airline flights per day and one lift related take-off crash every 4 years . That is one in 150 million . Available alternatives . For both causes there are viable alternatives to detect them well before V1 . Visual inspection of the wing usually detects contamination and many aircraft automatically check for the take-off configuration to be set whenever the thrust increases beyond a pre-defined trigger level . Increase in number of rejected take-offs : No system is perfect . It will detect some contaminated wing situations and save the day , but it will also cry wolf in cases where there is nothing to abort a take-off for . If the system has a false alert rate of one in ten thousand take-offs ( which would be very good and expensive to design and certify ) it would cause 15000 aborted take-offs ( assuming the same numbers as above ) for every crash it prevents ( assuming a missed alert rate of 0 ) . Since lift increases with the square of air speed , it is difficult to detect lack of lift early on during the take-off run . At low speed there is relatively little lift to be expected and it will be in the noise of the measurement . Also the accuracy of the airspeed indicator is relatively low at low speeds , so the theoretical lift model will not give accurate results either . As a consequence the system will only be able to detect lack of lift at high speeds . At those higher speeds , the influence of bumps in the runway start to affect the measurements as well . It is easy to see that detecting lack of lift is no so straight forward . False alerts will be raised and they will be at raised at high speeds . High speed rejected take-offs <URL> Boeing studies indicate that approximately 75 percent of RTOs are initiated at speeds less than 80 kt and rarely result in an accident . About 2 percent occur at speeds in excess of 120 kt . The overruns and incidents that occur invariably stem from these high-speed events . So effectively such a system will likely increase the number of accidents .
Not all commercial jets have autobrakes , and the ones that do usually have a company policy dictating when it will be used . The criteria for activating the brakes are different depending on the manufacturer and model of aircraft , but are typically some combination of : System must be armed A certain takeoff power setting must be set by the throttles A certain airspeed must be obtained Thrust levers must be pulled back to idle Aircraft must still be on the ground Usually for a rejected takeoff it does use max braking , however the autobrake usually has different settings for landing along the lines of " light/medium/max " braking . Each setting will use a different amount of runway for landing , much like lightly pressing on the brake pedal in your car versus jamming it to the floor .
&#72; ello - your Friendly Neighborhood Parachute Rigger here . Sport chutes are pretty reliable , have been since the mid 90s to the point where more accidents happen under fully functional canopies . If we disregard rank stupidity like tying the flaps shut1 or incompetent packing we find that the leading cause of malfunctions is bad body position on deployment . You are supposed to be face down , shoulders level before opening the thing . If you are on your back or tumbling you can have various parts wrap around you . High-performance canopies are somewhat more sensitive to the shoulders being level and can open in a decently fast spin . Depending on the spin direction and your altitude you may not be able to recover2 . The emergency chutes are built differently , emphasizing ( obviously ) reliability over being able to land at 100km/h . This means that twisted lines are either recoverable or not an issue . If the jumper is n't paying attention to where he is , you may find that a leading cause of going splat is not using the perfectly good canopy on your back . Automatic activators have more-or-less eliminated this as a common cause3 , but if the jumper thinks that the houses look a bit too big and deploys the main at the same time as the reserve opens they may decide to wrap each other up . Ram-air canopies are like badgers - they do n't like each other very much and having two open at the same time is a rather delicate situation . If we turn to landing accidents , we find that there are all kinds of ways to injure or kill yourself with a fully functional canopy overhead . The aforementioned 100km/h landing speed is no joke - hit an obstacle on the ground going that fast and it 's exactly the same as jumping out of a car on the highway . Buildings , trees , power lines , vehicles , running propellers etc. have all claimed their sacrifices . And do n't try to land on both sides of the fence at the same time . Or in the alligator farm across the road . Mechanical failure of the system is very rare - riggers wo n't pack worn-out reserves , and if they are concerned about someone 's main they will tell the dropzone management who will usually decline to provide services until it 's fixed . Many jumpers will tie various handles to the pack before travelling . Prevents the pack accidentally opening when curious security or customs pick it up by what looks like the carry handle . Remove before Flight ! Happened to me twice - the first time I looked up , then down , decided I did n't have enough time to fix it . The second time it was spinning the other way and I fixed it in 2 seconds . Automatic activators fire at 750-1000 feet . If you are in freefall below that altitude you 're usually done .
The autopilot controls hydraulic actuator that is connected to the control link at some point . Since power transfer in the link is bidirectional , the control column moves when autopilot operates it . The same goes for thrust levers operated by autothrust . If the pilot fights it , the autopilot will increase the force applied up to some limit at which it will disconnect . It ca n't really recognize whether the force is from the pilot or due to aerodynamic forces , but that 's all right , because it should disconnect both if the pilot tries to yank the controls and when keeping the plane in the selected attitude requires too large control input ( e.g. hard up elevator because the plane is too slow ) . Boeing aircraft maintains this behaviour even on models with fly-by-wire ( B777 and B787 ) . Airbus did remove the feedback , because the command given does not directly correspond to control surface position anyway . So far I believe the only other civilian aircraft without feedback is Sukhoi Su-100 .
You stay vigilant by having seen things go wrong . <URL> the importance of a proper preflight is drilled into you by your primary instructor from day one in light aircraft , and that mentality carries through all the way up to heavy transport-category aircraft : You want to find any problems you can while you 're on the ground , because if you take a problem into the air with you it 's a decision you can quickly come to regret . Personally I 've found all sorts of " interesting " things on preflight inspections of light aircraft , including ( but not limited to ) : Mud wasps building a nest in the pitot tube Mud wasps building a nest in the fuel drain ( still do n't know what was up with that ) Missing screws from a fairing Flat-spot on a tire A tennis ball stuffed in between two cylinders ( a common flight instructor trick to see if students are doing a thorough preflight ) Position light lenses installed backwards ( another common CFI trick , but this one was actually a maintenance shop screw-up ) Various light bulbs burned out Water in the fuel after a heavy storm . I 've also heard some scary stories : Migrating colony of bees hanging out on the tail of the aircraft ( described as " The tail was literally dripping bees " ) Flight controls rigged backwards Big gouge in the wingtip ( acquired by the previous pilot scraping the tip against another plane 's tail taxiing in on the ramp ) The ever-classic " ran out of fuel because you did n't visually check the tanks "
Here 's how the PAPI lights work : Depending on the angle of the viewer , a different color is seen : Then each light is calibrated to an angle : The good thing about this is that it 's dead simple technology where very few things can go wrong : The lights have to be on and calibrated for the correct angle . The downside is that its usefulness decreases with lower visibility . Some new systems appear to have solar panels as an off grid ( and alternative/backup ) power source which is sensible . Many systems today also have LED lights . If two airplanes with two different altitudes approach , do they see different number of white and red lights ? Or are the lights set for the closer airplane ? The system is independent and passive , in the sense that it never makes contact or note of the aircraft approaching . It lights up all to all aircraft in the beam . Hence , it ' works ' for all aircraft at the same time . Some new systems feature <URL> ( Final Approach Runway Occupancy Signal ) giving an indication that the runway may be occupied by another aircraft by flashing the lights . For a little information on differences between similar systems to PAPI , see <URL> .
It depends on what you mean by trim . If you mean a a mechanism that allows the pilot to reduce the control forces in order to allow the helicopter to be flown hands off , then the answer is a qualified yes . If you mean a trim tab attached to a control surface , then the answer is no . Many airplanes which have a trim control do not use a trim tab . For example , Pipers have an anti-servo tab on the elevator , which the pilot uses to reduce control forces . Since helicopters are unstable -- meaning if you take your hand off the cyclic the aircraft will be in an unusual attitude within a second -- nothing short of electronics and actuators will allow a heli to be flown hands off . But every heli except the smallest ones , have considerable stick forces , which make them difficult to impossible to handle without some kind of assistance . The simplest setup is what you find on the original 4-seat R-44 Astro , which lacked hydraulic assist . On top of the cyclic you will find a 4-way " hat " switch which uses electrical actuators on the cyclic to reduce the control forces necessary to fly it . Larger helicopters have hydraulic assist , which allows the copter to be controlled with just two fingers . Inop hydraulics is considered an emergency . Big helicopters have a <URL> , which allows the helicopter to be flown hands off . An SAS is required for IFR flight .
What is used to de-ice a commercial aircraft ? <URL> are used which are made of <URL> or <URL> in addition to other ingredients . What is used to de-ice a runway at a large airport ? Airports use different types of materials , e.g. <URL> . <URL> is a brand which is popular . <URL> using normal techniques like salt and snowplows etc. . Do the two fluids effect each other at all ? Meaning , when an aircraft drips de-icing fluid onto the runway , does it cause any interactions or problems ? I do not think that there is much or any damage to a runway from the de-icing fluid . If something is bad for solid concrete , how it can be good for fragile aluminium ? Research shows that the residuals left on the airplanes cause some issues . Those are described below . Effect of runway de-icing fluid residuals on airplanes There are some studies that show the runway fluid having some adverse effects when combined with de-icing fluid residuals on airplanes . <URL> : Runway deicing fluids contain potassium acetateor potassium formate-based fluids ( deionizing salts ) . When these fluids combine , the separation of the anti-icing fluid thickeners may be enhanced , leading to a more rapid formation of the residue . Effect of airplane de-icing fluid residuals on airplanes However , de-icing fluid residuals on airplanes can freeze and cause damages to flight controls . More information is <URL> .
end question
start question
Do modern airliners have oxygen sensors in the cabin ?
The air conditioning system on board airliners is an open system : it scoops up air from the atmosphere , compresses it , expels it through the cabin vents , and then outflows it through discharge valves . In modern airliners there is a certain amount of re-circulation : the expelled air was of such good quality that it seemed a waste to just dump it in the atmosphere . <URL> <URL> In the A320 family of airliners : Outside air is compressed in the engine compressors , part of it is tapped of as bleed air : already compressed and warmed , it is used for refreshing the cabin air ( marked green ) . Temperature and pressure regulators then provide automatic mixture control for the amount of outflow : the outflow valve is regulated , decreasing the opening results in increase of cabin pressure and decrease of flow . The recirculation fans regulate how much air is re-used , after being filtered through HEPA filters which remove pathogens and other nasty stuff . The whole cabin air volume is refreshed every 2 - 3 minutes , as also referenced in <URL> : with such a frequent refresh rate , it would be pretty safe to assume that there will always be roughly the percentage of oxygen in the cabin as there is in the outside atmosphere ( see below for the actual percentage ! ) . People have climbed to the <URL> without the help of oxygen masks , and that summit is about at cruising altitude of an airliner . AFAIK , the aircon system does not have oxygen sensors , but it does have temperature and pressure sensors which are of more immediate concern . Low concentration toxic gases are much more dangerous than a drop in oxygen concentration . In fact , the human body makes use of this : when holding your breath , the urge of breathing fresh air again after a while comes from the <URL> , not from any decrease in oxygen . So CO$ _ 2 $ detectors on board of aircraft would make sense , as would detectors for the very lethal carbon monoxide . These are available , even in the form of a key hanger for GA pilots ( not including any links due to them being adverts ) . There have been reports of dizziness and fainting on board of airliners , and investigations into these . <URL> did not reveal a particularly high carbon dioxide content : Discussion With additional measurement reports pending , I found in-flight cabin air quality measurements of oxygen to be relatively stable , ranging from 11.2 % to 12.5 % . Typical outdoor CO2 levels are between 350-400 ppm ( 0.035 % - 0.04 % ) or up to 500 ppm by some sources . Carbon dioxide levels measured in-flight in the aircraft cabin ranged between 0.04 % or 400 ppm and 0.1 % or 1000 ppm to date in our studies and were measured at close to 0.5 % or 5,000 ppm in earlier studies . As indicated at CO2 HEALTH EFFECTS , occupants are unlikely to be affected or to notice CO2 levels under 2 % or 20,000 ppm - a far higher number than in-flight aircraft cabin carbon dioxide levels . Notice that the oxygen contents on board is a bit over half of that of the outside air - the cause of dizzy passengers ? Reports of dizziness do keep appearing , and nothing beats direct detection of noxious gases by a sensor . Problem is , there are so many of them . Oxygen , carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide sensors would be good candidates for inclusion into the aircon systems . On your second part of the question Is there any situation ( emergency or not ) in which some other gas could pressurize the cabin and lower the O2 percentage inside it ? Yes , in air conditioning systems that use bleed air there definitely is , an engine malfunction can for instance inject gases from burning oil into the cabin air , a problem that was reported a few times for the BAE 146 . <URL> The British Aerospace BAe 146 was the aircraft type most commonly involved in fumes/smoke events when taking into account flying activity . The Airbus A380 , Boeing 767 , Embraer EMB-120 and E-190 were among other aircraft types that also had a higher than average rate of fumes/smoke occurrences over the period . The most common source of fumes/smoke was aircraft systems issues , primarily relating to failure or malfunction of electrical and auxiliary power unit ( APU ) systems . Equipment and furnishings also featured highly as a source of fumes and smoke . Within this category , air conditioning and galley equipment were the most common sources of fumes/smoke . External sources of fumes/smoke and cargo/baggage related events were relatively rare .
That ' cloudy stuff ' that you say is not ' turbulence ' , but condensed water vapor , the condensation being due to the sudden cooling caused by the adiabatic expansion of the air due to the aerodynamic disturbance caused by a passing blade ( or wing ) . That condensation can also be observed as wakes in landing aircraft , and in stationary revving props . It appears when the sudden expansion takes place in humidity conditions close to saturation .
It was necessary for Concorde to fly much higher , and not a voluntary decision . A higher cruise altitude increases the demands on the airframe ( examples : <URL> , <URL> ) and is only accepted when it comes with sufficient benefits . An airplane needs a certain wing area for realistic take-off and landing distances . Also , details like the <URL> need to be observed , so the wing area must be large enough to create enough lift at low speed . Lift is proportional to the square of airspeed and air density . The faster a plane flies , the lower the density can be to create sufficient lift . By flying more than twice as fast as a Boeing 737 , the Concorde could fly at a fourth of the density by this reasoning . Air density ( symbolized by the Greek letter $ \ rho $ ) halves approximately with every 5500 m of altitude increase . However , the slender wing needed for low supersonic drag is not as efficient as the sub - / transsonic wing of a 737 , so a little more density was needed for the Concorde . The 737 is designed for cruise between 8000 m ( $ \ rho $ = 0.526 kg/m ³ ) and 12000 m ( $ \ rho $ = 0.312 kg/m ³ ) , and the Concorde flew between 16500 m ( $ \ rho $ = 0.154 kg/m ³ ) and 18000 m ( $ \ rho $ = 0.121 kg/m ³ ) .
When they first fall down they 'll be too high to reach your head , pulling on them will release a switch to activate the generator and release enough slack in the line to reach down to your chest comfortably ( for children ) . Some types are suspended by a cord connected to the switch : ( image source : <URL> ) Then you will just need to pull until the cord disconnects from the ceiling .
It could have been as you witnessed . In 2005 , a modification package dubbed <URL> was offered for the 737-200 and the 737 Classic ( -3 / 4/500 ) that would droop the flaps by 4 ° for all phases of flight . [ It ] decreases drag for cruise , and increases the aerodynamic efficiency of the wing by between 2 % and 3 % . The <URL> that many 727 pilots were doing the same thing in cruise -- but manually and unapproved . They would pull a CB to keep the slats on the leading edge of the wing retracted , while the flaps extended to the their first stop . Investigators believed that 727 pilots ( in general , and this flight specifically ) were setting the trailing edge flaps to two degrees during high altitude cruise , while at the same time pulling the circuit breaker for the slats so that they would not activate . This configuration was rumored to result in increased lift with no increase in drag , thus allowing more speed , higher elevation , or decreased fuel consumption . Flaps and Slats were intended to only be deployed at low speeds during take-off or landing . To answer the title question , yes . Flap position indicators exist , and combined with the electronic speed tape , the maximum speed indicated will be slower . If the flaps were to be extended at above design speed , an overspeed warning will be triggered as well .
In the Boeing world , LNAV is Lateral Navigation , and VNAV is Vertical Navigation . When LNAV is engaged , the autopilot will follow the Flight Management Computer ( FMC ) guidance laterally , i.e. left &amp; right . When VNAV is engaged , the autopilot will follow the FMC guidance vertically , i.e. climbs &amp; descents . LNAV is conceptually pretty simple : you have a magenta line on the map , your desired course , and the autopilot will follow it . The points defining your course are database points in the FMC that may but certainly do not have to correspond with VOR 's or other conventional NavAids . You can use LNAV to fly VOR-to-VOR , or it can fly point-to-point-to-point equally easily . ( You do n't have to tune any frequencies in either case . ) VNAV is a little more complicated , because you may only be cleared for some of what the FMC wants to do vertically . Simple example : you 're cruising at FL370 , planning to start down at a given point so as to cross AAA at FL240 , and then continue the descent to cross BBB and 10,000 ' and 250 knots . ATC clears you to " descend at pilot discretion , maintain FL 290 . " That means you can start down at whatever point you want , but until you get cleared lower later on , you ca n't descend all the way to FL240 or 10,000 . Yet . Or maybe the controller needs to put you at FL350 right now to avoid a traffic conflict 100 miles ahead , and your clearance is " descend now and maintain FL350 , pilot discretion FL290 . " It 's a lengthy section of Ground School how the pilot sets up the FMC and the mode control panel to accomplish all of this , but hopefully that illustrates some of the complexity of VNAV . It 's a good system ; under typical conditions you can go into LNAV and VNAV shortly after takeoff and stay in them both until shortly before landing , and the FMC gives you smooth ( mostly ) and efficient guidance .
Here is an illustration of how cabin pressure changes during a typical commercial flight : <URL> image source : <URL> Note how when the pressure outside the aircraft is changing , the pressure inside the aircraft is also changing , but not as much . During the flight shown here , you would experience about the same pressure changes that you would in an unpressurized Piper Cub that only went to 7000 feet .
Once the airplane is closed up , all doors and windows secure , pressurization comes down to the following : how much air is being pumped into the cabin ? how much air is being let out of the cabin ? Air enters the cabin ( on a jet powered airplane ) through bleed air taps in the high pressure compressor of the engines . This air is routed through <URL> , or " packs " as they are commonly referred to . The packs condition the air for temperature and humidity ( typically taking all of the water out of the air ) and then pump this air into the cabin at high pressure such that it is at the proper temperature after expansion to cabin altitude . Air exits the cabin through outflow valves , which are typically at the rear of the pressure vessel . These can be manually or computer controlled and will open and close to regulate how much air leaves the cabin . To provide constantly fresh air , the incoming air from the packs is constantly supplied and as such the cabin pressure is almost entirely regulated by the outflow valves . These valves have to be able to exhaust more CFM of flow than the packs can supply in order to let the cabin climb and when providing less CFM than the packs the cabin will descend . The cabin altitude will be managed so that : it stays below a maximum pressure differential with the ambient atmosphere outside , cabin altitude rate of change is limited , maximum cabin altitude is kept below 10k feet ( and typically below 8k feet ) such that supplemental oxygen is not needed .
787 On the 787 there is no activate/deactivate button for it . Yaw damping and turn coordination are always active as long as the flight controls law is in primary mode . In secondary or direct modes , yaw damping becomes degraded . Primary being the fly-by-wire 's fully functional mode . Source : 787 FCOM . MD-11 On an older generation plane , for example the MD-11 , there are buttons for the yaw damper , 4 in fact for the 4 channels , they are rarely used ( always on ) unless there 's a fault and after troubleshooting you want to take a channel out . <URL> ( <URL> ) Four yaw damper buttons on the MD-11 's overhead panel . 737 Next Generation On a 737 , after a flight is completed and the <URL> knobs are moved to the off position , the yaw damper switch automatically goes to the off position . I suspect the rationale back then ( carried over from earlier 737 variants ) was you ca n't have the switch on the " on position " and the fault light illuminated when there was no fault . ( The yaw damper needs a functioning <URL> , which needs input from the IRS . ) <URL> <URL> ( <URL> ) Yaw damper and IRS controls on the 737 overhead panel . Autopilot and yaw damper In most ( if not all ) planes that come with a yaw damper ( YD ) , engaging the autopilot ( A/P ) is not needed to enable the YD , i.e. , you can hand fly and still have the YD on , whether there 's a switch for it ( 737 ) or not ( 787 ) . In the MD-11 if all four channels failed , the A/P can only be used in cruise . So as you can see , you need the YD for the A/P in the MD-11 , not the other way around . Source : MD-11 QRH .
Does the pilot flying have to manually " push the button " on the control panel ? It 's automatic , with a manual changeover button available to the pilots as shown below ( label no. 2 ) . <URL> How does the aircraft know when the transition should happen ? When the target climb indicated airspeed ( IAS ) equals the target climb Mach number , the changeover takes place , usually around FL260 . Likewise for the descent . The target speeds are managed by the FMS and can be changed . <URL> Image shows the <URL> . ( 3 ) Displays computed values or manually entered values for the selected mode .
Sometimes they do add temporary tanks . <URL> of what Hawaiian Airlines had to do to get their fleet of 717 's over the Pacific because they did not have the range . I do n't have the answer to your question specifically , but I would guess they either add temporary tanks and go from <URL> which is not much further than max-range , or take the long haul through the US and Europe . There 's a <URL> about this .
A lot of consideration is placed on the airframe ( which has to hold for 20 + years ) rather than the passengers . One of the primary reasons is to slow corrosion of the aluminium airframe . This is also why the Boeing 787 is a lot more humid - corrosion is no longer an issue in a composite fuselage ( or a lot less at least ) . <URL> and the <URL> sum it up nicely I think : the greatest issue lies with the cold fuselage skin interacting with moist air , which will condensate and speed up the rate of corrosion . But condensation in the gap between cabin and hull can be lethal . This gap contains much of an aircraft 's wiring , and water can damage that wiring 's insulation . Such a problem is thought to have contributed to the loss of a Swissair DC-11 off the Atlantic coast of America a few years ago . Too much condensation causes other difficulties , as well . There have been cases when ice has built up inside the tailplanes of aircraft , causing their rudders to freeze and thus preventing their pilots from steering them . An aircraft such as a Boeing 747-400 can accumulate as much as 700kg of condensation before it reaches equilibrium . Even though that is only about 0.17 % of the 400 tonnes such an aircraft weighs fully laden , it is enough to cause problems for the pilot when he tries to trim the balance of the aircraft . And 700kg is about the weight of nine men . So the aircraft is carrying the equivalent of at least nine non-fare-paying passengers , in an industry where every extra kilogram affects fuel consumption and profit margins .
Yes , there is an indicator for passenger oxygen status . <URL> ( Image Source : www.b737.org.uk )
The same way it is done in small airplanes and older airlines -- toe brakes . The rudder pedals translate forward and back to actuate the rudder and they pivot around the lateral axis to actuate the brake system . Each pedal independently controls only the brakes on its side of the airplane ( e.g both pilots left toe brake actuates the brakes on the left main gear ) . Planes will often have an emergency or parking brake , which will be a lever somewhere that actuates the brake system . This system , outside of emergencies is only used when the plane is not moving and you want it to remain that way . Larger airplanes with also sometimes have autobrakes which provide a triggered automatic application of a certain level of braking . This kind of system is used both to provide automatic maximum braking for a rejected takeoff ( RTO ) and some lesser automatic braking upon landing rollout . To summarize , for taxi and ground movement the brake input is coming from the toe brakes . When the aircraft is stopped , brake input will be transferred from the toe brakes to the parking brake . When the plane lands , if it is so equipped and enabled , the autobrakes will begin brake application and the pilot will take over with the toe brakes and continue to use toe brakes for the taxi in .
<URL> ( aviationweather.gov ) Significant weather chart . Note the numbers in boxes . They decrease as the latitude increases : 450 → 400 → 350 → 250 . Note : those values change day to day and season to season , they 're not fixed . Those are the <URL> . 450 is FL450 , i.e. , 45,000 feet at a <URL> . This figure is very important in flight planning . Jets typically fly around this figure for optimal aircraft/engine performance . So yes , you 're right , the farther you fly from the equator , the lower you should fly . However , the following two statements are incorrect : I 'd expect that the air pressure at the top of the troposphere [ be the same regardless of latitude . ] The pressure gradient is still the same . See : <URL> As the altitude of an airliner increases , the angle of attack [ also increases . ] As the altitude increases , so does the speed , to counter the thinner air . Until you end up in a <URL> . Also , for high latitude polar flights , an airline can do away with the optimal performance , because the rise in temperature helps keep the fuel from freezing , however I may stand corrected on that .
According to <URL> Airliners.net forum post , The masks are deployed automatically ( typically when cabin altitude exceeds 14,000 feet ) , or can be deployed manually from the flight deck . In addition , if a passenger service unit oxygen door should fail to open , cabin crew can open the PSU door ( either inserting a flat object or a special tool depending on the aircraft type ) manually . So basically , the masks are deployed automatically based on sensors , with manual deployment as a primary failsafe and physical access as a secondary failsafe .
Systems vary . Transport aircraft and larger biz aircraft have airpacks handling the AC and at flight idle power settings there is less bleed air , and pressurization is a priority . The packs simply do not have full power when in a flight idle descent on many aircraft . The aircraft I routinely fly have separate radial compressor driven refrigerant systems , and have large heat loads from onboard electronics and laser systems . They have to remain cool , and normally both AC systems are left on until just prior to engine shutoff after taxi . If it is a hot environment , we use the APU and keep the AC on after engine shutdown . Once again , the situation is different in different aircraft , and is dependent upon the cooling system , the power plants , the installations and the design and operational goals . Addendum # 1 : Some aircraft APUs can provide bleed air for cabin pressurization , but this is not universal . Also , some aircraft , such as the 787 do not use engine bleed air for pressurization , and rather use electrical compressors . The flow of pressurized air is rather constant in flight .
Yes , most military aircraft , including fighter aircraft , are equipped with a " black box " called flight data recorder ( FDR ) / crash survivable memory unit ( CSMU ) / integrated monitoring and recording system ( IMRS ) / deployable flight incident recorder set ( DFIRS ) . Sources <URL> <URL>
Navigation has gotten much simpler over the years . Initially , navigation would be done by a combination of dead reckoning , looking out the window for landmarks , and for night or long-distance flights , by celestial navigation ( many old airplanes have a window at the navigator 's station specifically to let the navigator see the stars ) . This took quite a bit of time and effort , so the pilot could n't do it and also fly the airplane . In the 1920s , radio navigation was added to the navigator 's toolkit , but finding bearings to beacons and calculating a location was still an entirely manual process . Additionally , radio beacons did n't cover the entire world , so older navigation techniques were still needed for most flights . In the 1950s , fully-automatic radio direction finding systems became common and navigation beacons were available across most of Europe and North America . At this point , the workload involved in navigation dropped to the point that the pilot could also navigate : plot out the sequence of NDBs to follow ahead of time , then tune the radio and follow the navigation display . Very recently , navigation has been integrated with the autopilot to the point that the pilot can punch in a sequence of waypoints and have the airplane fly the route entirely on its own . And yes , even today if the electronic navigation system fails , the fallback is map , compass , and slide rule .
The question you 're asking roughly translates to . The answer is " About 15-20 seconds , once the pressure bleeds off . " The FAA has a handy table for this : From Chapter 16 of the Pilot Handbook of Aeronautical Knowledge . <URL> , or <URL> The Time of Useful Consciousness will vary depending on personal physiological factors ( e.g. if you 're a smoker your blood does n't oxygenate as well - you will probably have less time . If you 're a mountain climber in excellent shape and used to breathing rarified air on your climbs you 'll probably have a little more time ) . In the case of a non-explosive decompression ( say a pressurization system failure ) you 'll probably have more time than this from the start of the event to the point where everyone is unconscious : the cabin pressure will take time to bleed off . Whether that time is seconds or minutes depends on the nature of the leak . Presumably while the pressure is bleeding off the aircraft 's systems will complain about the loss of cabin pressure and give the pilots a chance to address the problem ( fix the pressurization system or descend to a safe altitude ) . Unfortunately the effects of hypoxia can start setting in before the crew realizes what 's going on ( which is one of the contributing factors in the loss of <URL> , which suffered just this kind of gradual depressurization ) .
end question
start question
Why Airbus Beluga XL is based upon A330 and not upon A350 or A380 ?
Considering that ( one of ) the main reason ( s ) for introduction of larger Beluga XL is to meet the demands of the A350 XWB production , it does n't make sense to have a modified A350 for the next transporter : Airbus would prefer to sell A350s to customers than to modify them for internal use . A380 is not supported by airports near most of the Airbus production centers - defeating the very purpose of having the Beluga XL fleet . In the end , it boils down to which aircraft can satisfy two requirements - payload and runway capability at Broughton . From <URL> : Airbus wants an aircraft which not only meets high payload capabilities - including capacity to carry two fully-fitted A350 wings - but can operate within airfield landing limitations at its UK wing facility at Broughton , to which it will deliver A350 wing covers . Broughton 's declared available landing distance for the shorter runway 04 approach is 1,663 m ( 5,460 ft ) . Airbus considers this restriction to be too tight for a modified A330-300 or A340-500 , while the payload requirement is too high for an A300-600 . It believes an A330-200 variant - tentatively designated the A330-200XL - could potentially cope with the landing criteria at projected weights of around 135t , and is the most promising option . Boeing Dreamlifter , on the other hand , is purpose built for B787 transport - wings and fuselage , while the Beluga transports only the wings . The distances involved in the B787 production ( compared to the only European production centers of A350 XWB ) means that Airbus can afford to transport only the wings , rather than fuselages too .
While the question is fairly broad , looking at 61.51 is a good place to start , as well as 61.57 for some of the currency stuff . But let 's try and work out some of your examples : How should actual instrument be logged ? Should a PNF be able to log actual time if they are monitoring during instrument conditions ? 61.51 ( g ) is what dictates the logging of instrument time : ( 1 ) A person may log instrument time only for that flight time when the person operates the aircraft solely by reference to instruments under actual or simulated instrument flight conditions . ( 2 ) An authorized instructor may log instrument time when conducting instrument flight instruction in actual instrument flight conditions . So barring any legal interpretations out there or regulations I 'm missing ( note , I 'm not an instrument rated pilot nor attorney ) , a strict reading of the reg would indicate that only an authorized instructor , conducting instrument flight instruction , can log instrument time when not operating the aircraft . How should landings be logged ? Should a PNF be able to log landings they were not at the controls for ? The short answer is no . Assuming the landings are being logged for currency reasons , 61.57 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( i ) states that the person had to be the sole manipulator of the flight controls . 61.57 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( i ) says the same thing , but for night currency . How should approaches be logged ? Again , I 'm guessing this would be for instrument currency , at which point 61.57 ( c ) ( 1 ) would be in play . Within the 6 calendar months preceding the month of the flight , that person performed and logged at least the following tasks and iterations in an airplane , powered-lift , helicopter , or airship , as appropriate , for the instrument rating privileges to be maintained in actual weather conditions , or under simulated conditions using a view-limiting device that involves having performed the following - ( i ) Six instrument approaches . ( ii ) Holding procedures and tasks . ( iii ) Intercepting and tracking courses through the use of navigational electronic systems . Again , I 'm not an instrument pilot , but despite " sole manipulator of the controls " verbiage being absent in this particular paragraph , I 'm guessing the FAA would construe it to be the same . Of course , I 'm more than happy to be corrected should I be wrong .
Flutter happens when structural and aerodynamic <URL> converge . Aerodynamic eigenfrequencies depend on the time the air molecules take to transverse an aerodynamic surface .
There are many details to recognize , for example : The handle that locks the doors . <URL> <URL> Another way is to read the safety card , on them , you can read clearly if you are on a Boeing or Airbus , and on which type as well . The first picture is a typical Boeing 's door , and the second , an Airbus ' . ( source internet pictures from different types of handles ) On Airbus A32F , when the landing gear extends , the exit lights will turn on . The cabin interior differs from company to company , however the cockpit is unique , but nowadays , passengers are not allowed to visit the cockpit during the flights . If you seat on the seats , from where you can identify the winglet , they could give you some tips , most of the Airbus A32F have shark winglet , but it is changing , however , scimitar winglets are typical from New generation Boeings 737 .
Unlike with driving , in aviation the major variable when planning fuel consumption is n't how far you 're traveling but how long you 're traveling : Distance traveled in aircraft is a derived value ( calculated from groundspeed and time - groundspeed also being a derived value affected by many factors including wind ) . A pilot may not readily know their groundspeed ( it can be quite different from airspeed ) , but at a given power setting they know an engine will burn a specific quantity of fuel per unit time , therefore fuel consumption is generally expressed that way ( in gallons per hour or pounds per hour ) , and if they know how long they 've been flying they can reliably estimate how much fuel they 've burned , how much is left in the tanks , and how much longer they can keep flying before running out of fuel . To illustrate why this is superior for flight planning consider the following ( extremely simplified ) flights fitting the following profile : <URL> A 200 nautical mile trip An airspeed of 100 knots A fuel burn of 10 gallons per hour A 25-gallon fuel tank . Scenario 1 : No Wind With no wind the flight will take two hours to complete . The groundspeed is 100 knots . The aircraft will burn 20 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 10 miles per gallon . In this scenario we land with 5 gallons of fuel left in the tank - that corresponds to 30 minutes , which is the minimum legal reserve for day VFR flight per FAA regulations . Scenario 2 : 25 Knot Headwind With a 25 knot headwind the flight will take about 2:40 minutes to complete . The groundspeed is 75 knots . The aircraft will burn 27 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 7.5 miles per gallon . In this scenario we run out of fuel 2:30 into the flight . Running out of fuel is generally considered to be a Bad Thing : The passengers complain , and the FAA asks a lot of uncomfortable questions . Scenario 3 : 25 Knot Tailwind With a 25 knot tailwind the flight will take about 1:40 minutes to complete . The groundspeed is 125 knots . The aircraft will burn 16 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 12.5 miles per gallon . In this scenario we land with almost an hour of fuel still in the tank - a very comfortable reserve . On longer flights , and in slower aircraft , the effects of wind can be extremely pronounced , and a 5 or 10 knot difference from the forecast winds can mean the difference between arriving at your destination or having to add a fuel stop .
This depends on how the systems are plumbed , and while this is likely an exception , for some airplanes like the EMB-145 , the answer is yes . The EMB-145 has 2 hydraulic systems . System # 1 serviced the outboard brakes and system # 2 serviced the inboard brakes and the parking brake . The parking brake actuated all of the brakes and this let you transfer fluid between the systems through the outboard brakes . This is n't a normal procedure , but one maintenance would walk you through if you had low fluid in one system and more than you needed in the other to balance the systems if you were out somewhere without the ability to service the hydraulic fluid . The procedure was either Depress and hold toe brakes Set parking brake Release toe brakes Release parking brake or the opposite , depending on which way you wanted to transfer fluid . This works in flight or on the ground ( <URL> )
Considering that ( one of ) the main reason ( s ) for introduction of larger Beluga XL is to meet the demands of the A350 XWB production , it does n't make sense to have a modified A350 for the next transporter : Airbus would prefer to sell A350s to customers than to modify them for internal use . A380 is not supported by airports near most of the Airbus production centers - defeating the very purpose of having the Beluga XL fleet . In the end , it boils down to which aircraft can satisfy two requirements - payload and runway capability at Broughton . From <URL> : Airbus wants an aircraft which not only meets high payload capabilities - including capacity to carry two fully-fitted A350 wings - but can operate within airfield landing limitations at its UK wing facility at Broughton , to which it will deliver A350 wing covers . Broughton 's declared available landing distance for the shorter runway 04 approach is 1,663 m ( 5,460 ft ) . Airbus considers this restriction to be too tight for a modified A330-300 or A340-500 , while the payload requirement is too high for an A300-600 . It believes an A330-200 variant - tentatively designated the A330-200XL - could potentially cope with the landing criteria at projected weights of around 135t , and is the most promising option . Boeing Dreamlifter , on the other hand , is purpose built for B787 transport - wings and fuselage , while the Beluga transports only the wings . The distances involved in the B787 production ( compared to the only European production centers of A350 XWB ) means that Airbus can afford to transport only the wings , rather than fuselages too .
Winglets on wings help because they increase the volume of air on which the wing can act . <URL> , but when span is restricted or the maximum wing bending moment is limited , winglets bring a small improvement in efficiency at high lift coefficients . <URL> , however , the winglets would run through air which is already affected by the tips of the propeller . No additional air will be involved , so no efficiency increase will be possible . Please note that propulsive efficiency is increased by accelerating more air by a smaller amount . The formula for the propulsive efficiency $ \ eta_p $ of an air breathing engine is $ $ \ eta_p = \ frac { v _ { \ infty } } { v _ { \ infty } + \ frac { \ Delta v } { 2 } } $ $ where $ v _ { \ infty } $ is the speed of the inflowing air and $ \ Delta v $ the speed increase of the air affected by the propeller disc . A smaller $ \ Delta v $ acting on a higher mass flow makes the engine more efficient . This effect is most pronounced when $ v _ { \ infty } $ is low . The prop tip winglets would operate in a region of high dynamic pressure and generate more friction drag without contributing to the prop 's efficiency . By the way : Whoever tells you that winglets reduce induced drag quite a bit has something to sell to you , but I digress .
They mean an <URL> - Instrument Landing System . An ILS consist of : A localizer component , which tells the angle between the aircraft 's position and the extended runway centerline . In short , it tells the pilot whether they are left or right . A glideslope component , which tells the angle between the aircraft 's position and the extended runway surface on the ground . Typical glide slope angle is 3 degrees . In short , it tells the pilot whether they are high or low . An ILS is usually coupled with an DME ( Distance Measure Equipment ) , which tells the distance between the aircraft and the runway threshold . Using the glideslope angle together with the horizontal distance , one can compute the height above runway level . From page 12 of the report : AC624 was then cleared for the straight-in LOC approach ... Which means only the lateral ( left or right ) component is available , there is no signal which tells the pilot whether they are high or low relative to the ideal descent path . A radio altimeter is not very useful when the approach path leading to the runway has uneven terrain . It tells the height above the ground directly under the aircraft . A barometric altimeter needs to be calibrated by a reading at ground level . It tells the height above sea level . Both of these altimeters can not tell the height above runway level . Therefore the pilots must rely on other data to monitor the descent profile , which increases the pilots ' workload . In a situation such as low visibility and high crosswinds , this presents a very challenging situation . If both vertical and horizontal guidance is available , then the pilots can simply follow this guidance all the way to the runway . They can also program the autopilot to follow this guidance , if suitable equipment is installed on the ground as well as onboard the aircraft . <URL> Note the green bars : one is horizontal and one is vertical . They form a cross on the display . If the horizontal bar is up a little bit , the pilot would pull up a bit . If the vertical bar is to the right , the pilot would turn right a bit . These green bars only possible when ILS is used . It is possible to compute the relative height by using a DME and a barometric altimeter only . For example , I am now 5.5 nautical miles from the runway threshold , and according to the approach chart , I should be at 1,800 feet . Right now my altimeter reads 1,600 feet . That means I am too low and I should reduce my vertical speed to slow down my descent . This calculation has to be done by the pilot himself and not by a computer . Furthermore the pilot must fly the plane , i.e. adjust the control surfaces , run landing checklists , visually verify the alignment with the runway , talk to ATC , set the flaps etc. . A pilot is trained to do all this , but increased workload also increases the chance of making an error .
Yes . Ignoring companies that used to exist but are now bankrupt/merged into Airbus or Boeing , you have companies from countries that are n't historically too friendly with the US and Western Europe . For instance , Tupolev makes the <URL> , which is currently in production and seats over 175 passengers . The Ilyushin-designed <URL> is a widebody in current use some places ( Russia , Cuba ) . Before the Cold War ended , Russia had more indigenous airliners ; Aeroflot now largely uses Boeings and Airbuses , but there are still Russian aircraft that see use . In addition , you have newer manufacturers starting to enter the market : Bombardier with their <URL> , Comac ( in China ) with their <URL> ( in development ) , and Irkut with their <URL> ( in development ) . Embraer makes <URL> ( although they 're shorter-range , and you might consider them regional jets ) .
TL ; DR The angle is about 1 degree . The best reference I can think of is the <URL> . This provides key dimensions for the A330 family . I looked at the dimensions for the forward and aft lower deck cargo doors . The document provides both the distance from the ground to the floor of the hold ( § 2-3-0 ) , and to the door center from the nose ( § 2-7-0 ) . With this information , an inverse tangent will give the angle of the deck between the doors . There are two factors that affect these numbers . First , the three models of aircraft have different measurements . The other factor is weight and balance of the aircraft , which affects how much the suspension on each gear is compressed . A heavier aircraft will sit lower to the ground , and the location of the center of gravity will affect how much weight is resting on each landing gear position . Calculating the angles gives the following angles . Note the larger angle on the shorter -200 , and the difference of about a degree between the values on the -200 and the freighter -200 F. Although 1 degree may not seem like much , note the difference of about 33 cm ( 13 in . ) height between the -200 and the -200 F at the forward cargo door . This is near the nose gear , which is the reason that modifications were necessary to fit the extra nose gear length in the gear bay . -300 176,000 kg , CG 26.8 % : 1.2 deg MRW , CG 15 % : 1.1 deg MRW , CG 36.5 % : 0.8 deg -200 119,000 kg , mid CG : 1.4 deg MRW , CG 21 % : 1.3 deg MRW , CG 37.5 % : 0.8 deg -200 F 115,000 kg , CG 20 % : 0.4 deg MRW , CG 20.6 % : 0.2 deg MRW , CG 37.4 % : 0 deg
I think you 're overlooking the primary reason pilots fly instrument approaches : the conditions do not permit flight by visual reference . The fact that a PAPI provides vertical guidance is more or less useless if you ca n't see it . Most ILS approaches involve a descent of at least 1500 ' from glideslope intercept . If you break out from the clouds at ILS minimums , you can be as low as 200 ' above the runway surface ; at 3 ° , that 's around 3/4 miles from the touchdown zone and the PAPI . It 's highly unlikely that the PAPI would be visible prior to that point , meaning the approach would be made with purely lateral guidance .
I ca n't say if anyone has looked at a short-haul version of the A380 , but we can look to the Boeing <URL> for comparison . In addition to removing the wingtip extensions and winglets as described in the Wikipedia article , a friend at Boeing described to me other changes needed . Boeing beefed up the wing box due to the increased landing cycles . There were also some changes to the brakes to improve cooling as the short flights did n't provide adequate time to cool the brakes passively . It should be noted that ANA was the only customer with 19 aircraft built . They retired the last of them 3 years ago . So it would appear that there is n't much of a market for a short haul jumbo .
The one that decided to ground the fleet was Qantas . Qantas was having a new airplane model and potentially made a trade-off between having a not known design flaw and keep flying and the risk . At that time the A380 entered in service three years before and around 20 aircraft were in service with a mix of engines . Today , there are 200 A/C in service for 10 years . The possibility of having a design flaw or an unknown problem is really low . It was not a airworthiness directive as the directive was created <URL> in January 2011 . Qantas starting to get back in service the airplanes on 27th November ( incident was on 4th Novemeber )
In common parlance , " General Aviation " typically means " not-airline " . In the <URL> , the FAA now defines General Aviation as : That portion of civil aviation that does not include scheduled or unscheduled air carriers or commercial space operations . and it gives the ICAO definition : All civil aviation operations other than scheduled air services and nonscheduled air transport operations for remuneration or hire . Both these definitions are closely tied to commercial operations , and they go out of their way to point out that non-scheduled air carriers are NOT general aviation . Note that " civil aviation " would mean " not military " . Historically the term has been very colloquial , and to some extent you will still find different definitions from everyone . However , IMHO these are the most clear definitions available .
Only if the airplane wants you to know it is armed . It has several ways at its discretion : If it has a powerful radar , it can switch it on at altitude and announce its presence to other aircraft up to 150 km away . It can send <URL> squawks which are reserved for military aircraft . Note that IFF is used by both military and <URL> . Both methods are only indirectly indicating whether an aircraft is armed . The armament itself will not show up at BVR distances . In the end , if you want to be sure , you have to move some sensors close to the aircraft if the weapons are carried externally , or even wait until they are deployed when they are carried internally . Especially many small aircraft are used both in a civilian and a military role . A BVR radar is a dead giveaway for a military aircraft - such equipment is not fitted with civilian aircraft , and removed or disabled when an ex-military aircraft is converted to civilian use . Similarly , supersonic speed , which can reliably be detected with Doppler radars , is a telltale sign of military aircraft approaching . Transport aircraft are much harder to distinguish from bombers on the basis of radar signals alone , and in the end you can not exclude that the hostile aircraft tries to spoof your equipment into classifying it as a civilian aircraft .
A vertical take-off , known as a " towering " or " confined area " take-off , is normally only used when it is not possible to take-off and remain in <URL> before gaining speed and climbing away . For example , your operational need is to land in a clearing in a forest or perhaps a field surrounded by tall trees . In order to take off again , you need to climb vertically until you 've cleared the tops of the trees so that you can transition forward to gain speed . You might need to use on at night ( because you can not see if there are any obstacles ahead ) or when taking off from snow or sand when your vision will be obscured , making a vertical take-off safer . It is technically defined as any take-off which requires you to climb vertically until out of ground effect . <URL> , I 've discussed the reasons why the power required to transition in ground effect to forward flight is much less than that required in a hover or a vertical climb out of ground effect . Before attempting a towering take off , the pilot should conduct a power check to establish that they have enough power to hover OGE ( out of ground effect ) . If you do have enough power to hover OGE , then in theory , you could continue to climb vertically until the reduction in engine power output or lift ( small effect ) as you gain altitude reduces the power margin to the point where further climb is not possible without exceeding limits . So , to the point of your question , why is it not safe ? The main reason is a scenario which is common to all helicopter operations , not just a towering take off . Climbing vertically to 90 feet is exactly as dangerous as coming to a 90 foot hover in an arrival from forward flight . This scenario is putting yourself into a shaded area of the <URL> , known by pilots as the " avoid curve " or perhaps more accurately the " dead man 's " curve . Importantly , this has nothing to do with how much power you have which of course , if the engine stops , suddenly becomes zero ! <URL> <URL> In short , test pilots , using a fully loaded helicopter over level , prepared surfaces , try to enter <URL> from different combinations of height and speed . At some point , they look at each other and say " a normal , well trained pilot , could only just auto-rotate safely from that combination of height and speed . They plot these points on a graph , join the dots and say " see those shaded areas , do n't go there " . It represents the areas where you will not have enough of the combination of potential and kinetic energy to make a safe landing . As you can see , the towering take-off puts you deep inside the avoid curve . This is the first safety concern . If the engine stops , you will almost certainly crash . I chose that curve , for an Enstrom F28 , because it nicely illustrates that if you continued climbing vertically to 300 feet , you would pop out of the top of the curve . From this height , you could auto-rotate safely . The second safety concern goes back to the power required . If you run out of power during the climb , the aircraft may start to descend into its own rotor vortex and can enter a <URL> . In a confined area , you have no options for escaping it and certainly , all but the best pilots will not avoid a crash or , at best , a very heavy landing . I 'm a relatively low time private pilot and when I do my power checks , I want to see at least a 10 % additional reserve over the measured power check . There have been times when pilots have landed in confined areas but have then not had the power to hover OGE . They have had to reduce the weight and/or wait for a lower temperature before trying again . The third safety concern is the need for good skills and training . When performing towering take-offs in typical sport and private helicopters , the pilot must be gentle on the controls . Relatively large or rapid control inputs cause large spikes in the power required . When you have plenty of speed , <URL> but when climbing vertically , you might be calling for more power than is available . You must climb OGE slowly with gentle collective increases and , when clear of the top of the trees or other obstacle , ease the cyclic forward gently . It is this last input which is especially risky . If you push the cyclic forward as you would in a normal take off , you could find yourself running out of power and settling into the top of the tree with nothing left to give . The safe way to do it is a slow climb but obviously , this leaves you in the shaded area for longer . I was always relieved when I cleared the trees and got back into normal flight and the temptation , which must be resisted , is to increase your climb rate to reduce the time on the curve but of course , this reduces your power margins . The general principle is to use the power required and no more . Gentle climb , gentle movements , be ready to pick up wind as you clear the obstacle , and you 'd better have made sure before you get there that it 's a head wind . The fourth safety concern ( and the last one to my knowledg
First of all , keep in mind that the Philippines has one of the shortest average populations on Earth . Their average passenger weighs a lot less than an average American or European , since weight scales roughly with the cube of height . So , 436 Filipinos do n't weigh nearly as much as 436 , say , Americans or Europeans , assuming average populations from each group . <URL> , the average Filipino male of age > = 20 is only 5 ' 3.5 " ( 162cm ) and the average female age > = 20 is 4 ' 11 " ( 150 cm . ) Compare those numbers to 5 ' 9.5 " ( 176 cm ) for males and 5 ' 4 " ( 162 cm ) for females for Americans age > = 20 . Considering the roughly cubic scale , that 's a pretty significant mass difference . Second , why would putting more passengers on board not be fuel efficient ? It will make the aircraft heavier , but it also means that you 're carrying that many more people in one trip . My guess would be that you 'll burn less fuel per passenger-mile , rather than more . To get a rough estimate , <URL> . If we assume the average Filipino weighs about 120 lb . ( this seems like a reasonable guess based on my experiences in the Philippines , ) 436 passengers would come out to 52,320 lb . while the 293 passengers on <URL> would be 35,160 lb . So , you 're increasing mass before fuel by only around 5.5 % while increasing passenger count by a whooping 49 % . It would be hard to find a scenario in which that does not use less fuel per passenger-mile ( unless , of course , you 're overweight and ca n't take off at all . ) Regarding the issue of avoiding being overweight ( and , thus , being able to take off , ) Cebu Pacific normally does n't run routes anywhere near the 6,100 nmi range of a fully-loaded A330-300 . This means that they wo n't need to carry a full fuel load . Even a 10 % reduction in fuel load from the maximum capacity of an A330-300 would equal the entire added weight of going from 293 passengers to 436 . Even at full fuel load , though , judging from the previously-referenced numbers on Wikipedia , we get : Operating Empty Weight ( OEW ) : 274,500 lb . Full Fuel Load : 175,170 lb . 436 120 lb . passengers : 52,320 lb . 14 flight + cabin crew x 120 lb . = 1,680 lb . Total before cargo : 503,670 lb . Maximum Takeoff Weight ( MTOW ) : 534,000 lb . So , that still leaves 30,000 lb . for cargo and anything else that 's needed , even if they did need to carry a full fuel load for some reason . The issue of why Cebu Pacific does n't offer Business/First class cabins was also mentioned . The reasons for this are mostly their target demographic and their route network ( combined with the already-explained lack of weight limit . ) While there are many business travelers going to and from Cebu City , the routes on which these travelers are typically traveling are already well-served by several high-end airlines that also offer onward connections to Europe and the Americas ( e.g. Cathay Pacific to Hong Kong , Korean Air and Asiana to Seoul , Japan Airlines to Tokyo , Emirates to Dubai , EVA to Taipei . ) Additionally , Philippine Airlines also already competes in that space ( in addition to apparently offering direct flights from Cebu to LAX now , which I think is a rather recent development . ) With their low-cost model and lack of alliance partners for onward connections , it would be difficult for Cebu Pacific to compete for the already well-served premium-cabin demand in Cebu . Instead , their business model is catered to serving Filipinos traveling between islands and to regional destinations where lots of Filipinos work out-of-country . Last I heard , approximately 10,000,000 Filipinos worked outside the Philippines ( around 10 % of their total population , ) so serving that demographic is not a small market . In case it 's not obvious , this is an extremely price-sensitive demographic which is well-served by Cebu Pacific 's low-cost model . It should probably also be noted that , while 436 passengers on an A330 is unique to Cebu Pacific , high-density economy-only configurations in general are n't . Lots of regional-service low-cost carriers offer high-density economy-only fleets , even in less cost-sensitive areas like Europe , Canada , and the U.S. . In Cebu Pacific 's own region , <URL> and <URL> also operate similar high-density , economy-only fleets targeting the same demographic ( though , admittedly , <URL> , but these are on longer routes than Cebu Pacific normally serves , e.g. Singapore-Australia . )
Yes , they are official , this is the <URL> approach plate : <URL> I ca n't find a " East Channel Departure " but if you know what airport it belongs to , you can find it in the Terminal Procedures publication , either in paper form or <URL> . They are not VFR procedures , but rather visual IFR procedures . The MALL VISUAL would not be assigned to a VFR flight . Some airports do have special arrival/departure procedures which apply to VFR flights ; these can be found in the Airport/Facilities Directory ( A/FD ) or on a website like <URL> ( for the US anyway ) .
Proving that an aircraft is flyable with one or more engines inoperative is part of the certification programme . The Airbus A380 is certified under FAR ( Federal Aviation Regulations , USA ) part 25 and JAR ( Joint Aviation Regulations , Europe ) part 25 . One of the requirements of FAR/JAR 25 is that the directional control can be maintained when two critical engines ( that means under the same wing ) fail . The following is selectively extracted from <URL> ( JAR is similar , there are some differences ) . Emphasis added by me . Controllability and Maneuverability § 25.143 General . ... b ) It must be possible to make a smooth transition from one flight condition to any other flight condition without exceptional piloting skill , alertness , or strength , and without danger of exceeding the airplane limit-load factor under any probable operating conditions , including -- The sudden failure of the critical engine ; For airplanes with three or more engines , the sudden failure of the second critical engine when the airplane is in the en route , approach , or landing configuration and is trimmed with the critical engine inoperative ; ... $ $ § 25.147 Directional and lateral control . a ) Directional control ; general . It must be possible , with the wings level , to yaw into the operative engine and to safely make a reasonably sudden change in heading of up to 15 degrees in the direction of the critical inoperative engine . This must be shown at 1.3 VSR1 for heading changes up to 15 degrees ( except that the heading change at which the rudder pedal force is 150 pounds need not be exceeded ) , and with -- The critical engine inoperative and its propeller in the minimum drag position ; The power required for level flight at 1.3 VSR1 , but not more than maximum continuous power ; The most unfavorable center of gravity ; Landing gear retracted ; Flaps in the approach position ; and Maximum landing weight . b ) Directional control ; airplanes with four or more engines . Airplanes with four or more engines must meet the requirements of paragraph ( a ) of this section except that -- The two critical engines must be inoperative with their propellers ( if applicable ) in the minimum drag position ; [ Reserved ] The flaps must be in the most favorable climb position . c ) ... ... d ) ... e ) Lateral control ; airplanes with four or more engines . Airplanes with four or more engines must be able to make 20 ° banked turns , with and against the inoperative engines , from steady flight at a speed equal to 1.3 VSR1 , with maximum continuous power , and with the airplane in the configuration prescribed by paragraph ( b ) of this section . f ) ... $ $ § 25.149 Minimum control speed . ... g ) For airplanes with three or more engines , VMCL-2 , the minimum control speed during approach and landing with one critical engine inoperative , is the calibrated airspeed at which , when a second critical engine is suddenly made inoperative , it is possible to maintain control of the airplane with both engines still inoperative , and maintain straight flight with an angle of bank of not more than 5 degrees . VMCL-2 must be established with -- ... ... $ $ § 25.161 Trim . ... e ) Airplanes with four or more engines . Each airplane with four or more engines must also maintain trim in rectilinear flight with the most unfavorable center of gravity and at the climb speed , configuration , and power required by § 25.123 ( a ) for the purpose of establishing the en route flight paths with two engines inoperative .
end question
start question
How does a horizontal situation indicator ( HSI ) work ?
Your understanding is partly right . Usually HSI indicators are associated with a slaving transmitter that includes the flux gate ( the magnetic sensor ) , but also other elements such the directional gyro unit and a slaving control . So a typical system will usually include the below components ( there are different designs , so check the characteristics of the equipment in your aircraft ) : The Horizontal Situation Indicator ( HSI ) is the panel mounted cockpit indicator that provides a comprehensive display including usually at least heading , course , and glide scope . The heading indicator of the HSI is a remote indicating compass that gets its information from a remote slaving transmitter . The magnetic slaving transmitter includes the flux gate that is the magnetic sensor itself , and some electronics to send the heading information to the directional gyro and HSI . This transmitter and its associated flux gate is usually located in a wingtip to minimize as much as possible magnetic interference . a directional gyro unit that is usually remote mounted . It is using its internal gyroscope to keep and provide a stable heading reference during turns . This gyro unit is driven/slaved to the slaving transmitter . The slaving control is panel mounted and allows to selected either " slaved gyro " or " free gyro " mode . Usually , the system is in " slaved gyro " mode and will be slaved automatically . In " free gyro " mode , a slaving meter indicator displays the difference between indicator display and earth 's magnetic field , and it is possible to align manually the switch using clockwise or counterclockwise buttons . The manual of the Bendix-King KCS 55A provides a good introduction to HSI design and operation : <URL>
Horizontal stabilizers do n't generate as much pressure difference as the wings . Generally the stab deflections are very small in flight , and there 's so much other drag during landing -- when the stab gets the most use -- that wing vortices from the tail are probably the least of your problems . Stabilizer winglets on their own , when there 's no pressure difference , would simply result in drag , whereas the main wing winglets are constantly effective while flying . Furthermore , the weight and trouble of adding little winglets to the horizontal stabilizers with larger actuators and hinges , for example , would probably outweigh the very slight aerodynamic benefit . I could also imagine that since the airflow over latter part of the wing is complex and varied , find a good design solution would be difficult . As @Federico points out , the DA42 has them , but that 's a composite airframe rather than the metal construction you see in most Cessnas , for instance , where you have to be more conservative in construction .
It has to do with resonance . Think of a pipe organ - each pipe resonates at a certain frequency , which we hear as a note or tone . The length of the pipe determines its note/tone/resonance frequency . Your plane 's exhaust system has a certain resonance frequency . Your plane 's engine has a certain note or tone , too . That is largely determined by engine RPM . A powerflow exhaust matches the exhaust resonance frequency with the engine 's rpm at a typical high cruise setting . On a micro level , here is what happens . After a cylinder 's power stroke , when the exhaust valve first opens , exhaust floods out into the exhaust system . Soon the exhaust valve shuts and the inertia of the gasses moving down the exhaust system cause the exhaust gas to continue towards the exit , creating a lower pressure behind it ( near the exhaust valve ) . If the resonance frequency of the exhaust system matches the rpm , at that point the exhaust valve opens on the next cycle , and the lower pressure area in the exhaust assists in scavenging the exhaust out of the cylinder . On the subsequent intake stroke , there is less residual pressure in the cylinder and it can " suck in " more fuel/air mixture . More fuel/air , more power . Another way to say this is that it takes power for the engine to force the exhaust out of the cylinder and through the exhaust system . The Powerflow system reduces the power required to do this .
Does normal laws apply when the aircraft nose is vertically down ? Yes , always . Physics does n't care much about the aircraft 's attitude and can not be switched into different modes . While the nose points straight down , a stall is hard to achieve since no lift is needed - the weight is balanced by drag and inertia . However , when you pull abruptly and start to pitch up , the aircraft can stall while the overall attitude is still partially nose-down . If the pitch inertia is small , the rotation about the lateral axis will increase the angle of attack quickly while the flight path is still more or less straight down . At this attitude the stall angle of attack can be exceeded and the aircraft will stall . This is not unusual - pilots are routinely warned not to pull too hard after ending a spin . And yes , entering the next spin is entirely possible . This is especially likely when the sideslip angle has not been set to zero after ending the first spin . In most cases , this second , unintended , spin is in the opposite direction from the first spin because the pilot maintained his anti-spin rudder deflection for too long . There have even been cases of <URL> . A few details will help , though . A high pitch rate will delay the stall to an angle of attack <URL> than the <URL> at zero pitch rate . Flying faster will increase the Reynolds number , so stall is slightly delayed when compared to the stall conditions at 1g . Both effects , however , will increase the wing root bending moment , and pulling out of a dive will run a real risk of breaking off the wings when you pull too hard .
ETOPS stands for Extended-range Twin-engine Operational Performance Standards , a rule which permits twin engine aircrafts to fly routes which , at some point , is more than 60 minutes flying time away from the nearest airport suitable for emergency landing . ETOPS may also be interpreted as Engines Turn or Passengers Swim . It is not a rule which applies after an engine has failed . Rather , it is a set of regulations and standards which must be met if an airliner wishes to fly its planes more than 60 minutes away from a suitable emergency airport . History Early combustion engines were noticeably unreliable . It was not uncommon for a 4-engine piston aircraft to arrive at its destination with only 3 engines running . Twin engine aircrafts , as a result , were required to fly dogleg paths to stay close enough to an adequate airport . Aircrafts with more than 2 engines were not restricted by this rule . Thus , many transatlantic flights were flown with Boeing 747s and L-1011s , since airliners can fly a more direct route with these aircrafts . As engineers gained more experience in jets , they slowly recognized that jet engines are much more reliable than their piston counterparts . The FAA began to approve flying twin engines 120 minutes away from a suitable airport . This made twin engine aircrafts popular , because the fuel efficiency of flying a twin is much better than flying a 4-engine 747 or A340 . Certification ETOPS certification requires both the aircraft and the airline to comply with a set of standards . For the aircraft , the manufacturer must demonstrate that flying with only one engine is relatively easy for the flight crew , safe for the airframe , and an extremely remote event . The airline must demonstrate that its flight crew training and maintenance procedures are up to a higher standard . Pilots , engineers and staff must be specially qualified for ETOPS . Recently , more operators are adopting the ETOPS approach to non-ETOPs routes . They discovered that the approach offers significant improvements in reliability , performance and dispatch rates . The cost of application is later offset by reduced maintenance costs , and costs associated with diversions , delays and turn backs . Flight Plan An ETOPS flight plan may look something like this : Let 's say the aircraft 's ground speed ( with one engine inoperative ! ) is 450 knots . By drawing circles with radius 450nm around alternate airports , we can obtain areas which the flight must stay within . The flight path always stays inside one of these circles . If we are operating under ETOPS 120 , we will draw the circles at 900nm . Actual flight plans are slightly more complex , since winds aloft ( sometimes more than 100 knots ) will affect the aircraft 's ground speed . Dispatchers use software to calculate a route , taking aircraft weight , fuel consumption and winds into consideration .
I 'd suggest that you review the topic of <URL> , first , and then review how a <URL> works as it does n't sound like you 're very familiar with engine components ; I 've never heard of a ' pressure chamber ' or ' fire output controller ' . Modern jet aircraft technically do n't use throttles ; rather they are equipped with thrust levers which are connected to a Fuel Control Unit ( FCU ) . This can come in the form of a mechanical computer in the case of earlier engines or a digital electronic computer called a Fully Authority Digital Engine Controller ( FADEC ) , similar to the schematic in <URL> for the F100 fighter engine installation on the F-16 airplane . Early jet aircraft did use a throttle - literally a cockpit lever connected to a throttleable valve to precisely meter fuel into the combustion chamber ( s ) of the engine . This could be problematic to operate in flight as the fuel rate has to be changed as altitude - and consequently combustor inlet conditions - changes , making the engine vulnerable to flameouts from excessively rich fuel flow and compressor stalls from abrupt throttle changes . FCUs were developed , specific to each engine to offer simplified control .
First of all you should know that a Kalman filter is a state estimation technique . More than a filter , it is an estimator . Whilst it does filter sensor noise in the process , the most important use is to estimate the state of a system . The KF uses a mathematical model of a system ( e.g. an aircraft moving over the earth ) to estimate the state of the system ( e.g. position , attitude , velocity ) by comparing successive measurements to the values that were expected based of previous estimates of the state . Does the Kalman filter compensate the errors from all the onboard sensors ? No . Firstly , there are many sensors on board , not all are used in Kalman filters . Secondly , you ca n't fully compensate for all errors , there will always be residual errors in the output . IIRC the Kalman filter is a tracker , that predicts future computation values . How is this useful here ? It can be used as a tracker indeed . The KF uses its current estimation of the state of the system to predict the state at the time of the next measurement . The differences between the predicted measurement and the actual measurements are then used correct the estimation of the state and update the state uncertainty model . Is this used on IRS as well ? Or only on older INS ? Yes , the KF ( usually a more advanced form such as EKF or AKF ) is used to fuse data from the multiple sensors is the IRS . In an ADIRU , not only measurements from accelerometers and gyroscopes are used , but also pitot tube and static port measurements are fused in .
There is no virtually no lag on attitude indicators . The traditional ones are based on a mechanical gyroscope . Due to the gyroscope being gimbaled , it remains in a fixed attitude . When the aircraft changes attitude , the gyroscope in the attitude indicator remains at its original orientation . When you look at the attitude indicator you are looking basically directly at the gyroscope , packed in a nice horizon displaying wrapping . The modern attitude indicator in a glass cockpit gets the attitude information from the Attitude and heading reference system ( AHRS ) . There is of course some lag associated with digital data transfer and display refresh rate , but these effects are too tiny to be noticeable by humans . The first generation of these systems used mechanical gyroscopes as well . Nowadays most AHRSs uses <URL> or <URL> . These gyroscopes use <URL> of light travelling clockwise and counter-clockwise through a circular path . The accuracy of these systems is very high and there is no delay . Another technology that is used is are Micro-electromechanical Systems ( MEMS ) gyroscopes . The are based on a vibrating structure . The direction of a vibration tends to remain in the original direction , even though the supporting structure rotates . MEMS are relatively cheap compared to RLG and FOG but they are less accurate . Due to developments in the automotive and mobile telephony industry where attitude sensors are used for various applications the accuracy of MEMS gyroscopes has improved while their costs have decreased . This makes them now interesting for application in avionics .
For statically stable aircraft , the canard is a spoiler in disguise . It will create a strong downwash right behind itself , coupled with an upwash outward of $ \ pi $ / 4 of its semispan . With changing angle of attack and lift coefficient , the vertical position and the strength of both up - and downwash will change , so the wing incidence variation over wingspan can be made right for just one angle of attack . Pros The force to effect flight path changes works the right way , so pitch response times of canards are slightly better than those of a conventional configuration . The wing can be further aft , so in short business jets the cabin might not interfere with the wing spar . Cons The induced drag at off-design points is higher than that of a comparable conventional configuration . The bigger lifting surface must keep some stall margin , so the total lift coefficient will be smaller than that of a comparable conventional configuration . In the end , a canard will need more wing area . Control surface deflections will add to the already high lift coefficient of the canard plane , increasing lift demands on the surface with the smallest margins . The highest lift coefficient is needed at the surface with the smaller <URL> . Normally , the reverse would be better . If the engines are mounted below and ahead of the wing , they will be hit by the wake of the canard , reducing intake efficiency and <URL> margins . To make sure that the control surface will be the last thing on the plane to run into compressibility problems , it should have less lift coefficient and more sweep than the wing . In the end , a statically stable canard will have a lower cruise Mach number than a comparable conventional configuration . The landing gear must be made to retract into the fuselage , because the wing is too far behind the center of gravity to allow the gear to retract into the wing . I could go on , but I guess you see by now where this is heading ...
You have 3 questions here ( Or maybe 2 because the first and second are very similar ) 1 and 2 : Flares are some sort of burning compound that generates a significant amount of heat to distract ( hopefully ) an Infra-Red guided missile . They attract the IR missiles because the amount of IR energy created by them may be greater than that of the exhaust , which is what IR missiles follow . 3 The flares are deployed when the plane detects the presence of an IR missile . ( <URL> ) Once the presence of a " live " IR missile is indicated , flares are released by the aircraft in an attempt to decoy the missile ; some systems are automatic , while others require manual jettisoning of the flares . They also <URL> too .
Regarding the Specified IMU The referenced document describes the output protocol . SAEJ1939 CAN 29 bit identifier communication output -- the standard for the transportation segment -- allows more data to be transmitted than an RS-485 output You would need to use <URL> to decode the actual meaning of the output data . It is possible that Honeywell could provide you more information as part of purchasing the product . To use this to develop an AHRS solution you would still need pitot &amp; static inputs to derive pressure altitude and airspeed , as you wo n't be able to get those from the provided sensors . acceleration range up to ± 6 g , rotation rates up to ± 75 deg/s , inclination angles up to ± 50 deg and a sensor update rate from 1 Hz to 100 Hz I think the biggest hurdle you have here is that it will only measure inclination angles up to 50 deg . Aircraft can find themselves in > 50 deg pitch attitudes , which wo n't be registered by the IMU . This particular product ( Honeywell 6DF-1N6-C2-HWL ) seems to be designed for ground vehicle applications rather than aviation .
You are right , the horizontal tail of a conventional airplane appears to have a higher incidence , but the actual angle of attack is smaller than that of the wing . The wing , flying ahead of the tail , produces downwash , so the flow at the tail location has a distinct downward component . The downwash angle can be calculated from the lift coefficient and the geometry of the aircraft : To simplify things , let 's assume the wing is just acting on the air with the density $ \ rho $ flowing with the speed $ v $ through a circle with a diameter equal to the span $ b $ of the wing . If we just look at this stream tube , the mass flow is $ $ \ frac { dm } { dt } = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v $ $ Lift $ L$ is then the impulse change which is caused by the wing and equal to weight . With the downward air speed $ v_z $ imparted by the wing , lift is : $ $ L = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v \ cdot v_z = S \ cdot c_L \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot \ rho $ $ $ S$ is the wing area and $ c_L $ the overall lift coefficient . If we now solve for the vertical air speed , we get $ $ v_z = \ frac { S \ cdot c_L \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot \ rho } { \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v } = \ frac { 2 \ cdot c_L \ cdot v } { \ pi \ cdot AR } $ $ with $ AR = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { S } $ the aspect ratio of the wing . Now we can divide the vertical speed by the air speed to calculate the angle by which the air has been deflected by the wing . Let 's call it $ \ alpha_w $ : $ $ \ alpha_w = arctan \ left ( \ frac { v_z } { v } \ right ) = arctan \ left ( \ frac { 2 \ cdot c_L } { \ pi \ cdot AR } \ right ) $ $ A typical airliner cruise lift coefficient is 0.4 , and a typical aspect ratio is around 8 : This results in a downwash angle of nearly 2 ° if the lift distribution over span is elliptical . In reality , it is more triangular-shaped , so the downwash angle is larger near the center of the aircraft . Note that the engine nacelles of the <URL> are tilted 3 ° up to align them with the local flow . The resulting angle of attack is lower by those 3 ° , and if the angle of attack difference between wing and tail is less than that , the tail surface will appear angled upward . To achieve static stability , the tail will have to fly at a slightly <URL> .
Before we get started , I should mention that the most basic constant-speed propellers were driven by balancing air pressure and centrifugal force . The blades were shaped in such a way , or equipped with a counterweight that would cause the blade to intrinsically move to a shallow pitch . However , when air was moved over the blade , it would begin to overpower the counterweight and push the blade to a higher pitch . It 's a pretty ingenious design that meant that the prop would automatically be at a high RPM when the plane was moving slowly ( takeoff , landing , climbs ) , and would automatically move to a higher pitch when the plane sped up for cruise . There is even a single-bladed propeller that utilized this design very efficiently for light aircraft . The problem is that this type of propeller is not pilot-adjustable , and I am assuming you are wondering about adjustable props , so that 's what we 'll talk about from here on . In the first picture , observe that the pilot valve is resting directly on the flyweights ( separated by a bearing ) . The second picture better depicts the valve system . So we see that the speeder spring is pushing down on the top of the pilot valve 's shaft , which is in turn resting on the flyweights . First off , the flyweights are turned by the crankshaft , so any change in engine RPM is immediately reacted to . There are a few ways that the propeller is attached to the piston , and a rack and pinon type gear system is common and easy to imagine . The rack is fixed to the piston so that when it moves , the prop blade 's pinion gear is rotated and thus the blade is rotated . Another common type uses a peg that is offset from the center of the blade 's circular base . When the piston moves , it pushes or pulls on the peg and because the peg is offset it causes the blade to twist . Overspeed : When your airspeed increases . When the RPMs increase , the centrifugal force causes the flyweights to want to spread apart in order to conserve momentum . Because they 're in an L shape and have a hinge in the corner , this causes the lower part to rise up , pulling the pilot valve up and compressing the speeder spring . When the pilot valve is raised , pressurized oil from the pump is allowed to flow into the prop hub through a tube that passes through the center of the hub piston . The oil fills a cavity in front of the piston , pushing it backwards . The prop blade is rotated to a higher pitch ( closer to feather ) which slows the engine RPM . When the RPM is reduced , the flyweights will be under less centrifugal force , and the speeder spring will push them back to equilibrium ( on-speed ) , pushing the pilot valve back down to block the hub oil tube from gaining or losing oil . Underspeed : When your airspeed decreases . When the RPMs decrease , there is less centrifugal force acting on the flyweights . Due to their shape as described earlier , they are no longer able to push up on the speeder spring with the same force as before , so the compressed spring will begin to expand . This brings the top of the flyweights in , and their bottoms down . When their bottoms move down , the pilot valve moves down as well and unblocks the hub oil tube . Positive oil pressure in the hub and the blades ' built-in tendency to want to move to a low pitch pushes the oil out of the hub and back into the oil system . The piston moves forward and the blades rotate to a low-pitch condition . The flyweights do not necessarily return to equilibrium , especially if you manually set the spring to maximum compression with the prop lever : you want the prop to stay at minimum pitch no matter what . Loss of oil pressure : Oil pressure is constantly pushing against the bottom of the pilot valve , trying to force it upwards . The speeder spring is resisting , and while the flyweights are on-speed , the whole system is in equilibrium with the valve blocking the hub tube . When you lose oil pressure , that pressure is no longer holding the valve up and the speeder spring will win , pushing the valve down and allowing the oil to flow out of the hub . This resets the prop to the low-pitch climb setting , giving us maximum power because that 's more useful than maximum speed in the emergency situation that is probably about to occur . So why do we do this ? All propellers are set at a pitch . Theoretically , a propeller is pitched to move forward a certain distance each revolution , just like a screw moving through wood . But unlike wood , air is fluid and difficult to grip . If you imagine screwing a screw into a board , the only way to make it go in faster is to turn it faster . This is because the screw 's pitch is fixed . If you could space out the rungs on the screw ( increase the pitch ) the screw would move through the wood faster but it would become much harder to turn . An airplane 's propeller works much the same way . When we first take off , we need to impart maximum power into the air and it does n't matter if we do n't move forward very far for each revolution , because we 're not going very
Adverse Yaw created by the propellor will vary based on aircraft and design . Lots of modern single engine aircraft do things to counter act adverse yaw but if we take a pretty neutral aircraft design and apply the tabs you reference all you will see is a slightly more aggressive rudder . Since there is a tab in each direction in a centered situation they will cancel each other out however they will cause the rudder to have a more drastic impact at smaller angles of deflection . What actually happens ? Does the neutral position of the rudder change at different power settings when flying straight and level ? Does this arrangement reduce your foot workload compared to other aircraft ? The neutral position of the rudder will always change a bit as the power settings vary . For this you have <URL> . Generally speaking a lot of GA planes have a bit of left rudder trim always in to counteract <URL> some even have permanent design features to do so . It should also be noted that <URL> is most prominent at high angles of attack and high power settings ( takeoff and climb out ) generally this also means lower airspeeds . Once you settle into cruise its effects are decreased . I have never felt that it adds to my work load when flying but <URL> may have a different opinion on that ... The design you mention does not really reduce workload , for that you would need something like a <URL> some new planes like the <URL> .
The two configurations of <URL> have different capacity . A350-900 : 138,000 liters / 36,456 US gallons A350-1000 : 156,000 liters / 41,212 US gallons The tanks are shown in this picture : <URL> <URL>
First , the precise terms is not fins , but control surfaces . Fins would be fixed but the four rear surfaces can rotate around a spanwise axis . By rotating , they can be positioned at an angle to the airflow , thus deflecting it and creating an opposing force . Compare that to a <URL> . They work in the same way by creating a force normal to their plane . While this force has a vertical and horizontal component , the horizontal components of the single surfaces cancel each other when all surfaces are rotated by the same angle . Their vertical components will add up , creating a pitching moment . When the left and right surfaces are rotated by the opposite angle , their vertical force component will cancel while the horizontal component will add up , thus creating a yawing moment which swings the tail around . If it were to pitch downwards , which fins would need to move and in which direction ? All four surfaces will move trailing edge down , so the resulting force will point up and pitch the whole craft nose down .
In Europe , airlines pay so-called route charges for flying through national airspaces . EUROCONTROL , the European aviation organisation , collects route charges from their Central Route Charges Office , CRCO , and then distributes the money to the member states , who in turn will distribute them to the national air navigation service providers ( ANSP 's ) - including private ones . The advantage of collecting route charges centrally , is that airlines only have to pay to a single organisation , in a single currency . The charge for individual flights is calculated based on distance flown and aircraft weight , which are multiplied by a unit rate . The unit rates are determined by the individual countries - they are not the same across all of Europe . Unit rates are based on the actual costs for providing air traffic services , such as ATC , communication facilities , navigation equipment , meteorological information , aeronautical information service and so on . Route charges do not apply to aircraft weighing less than 2 tonnes , state and government flights and search and rescue flights . Some states also exempt military flights , training flights , test flights , local flights , VFR flights , humanitarian flights , police flights etc. . You can read more about the CRCO <URL> , and about how route charges are determined <URL> . Regarding your second question , I fail to see why a private ANSP should be any less safe than a government one .
Unfortunately , having been on board in this situation I can tell you what happened on board my flight : The deceased was covered and secured in the seat . The passenger sitting next to the deceased were relocated . Needless to say , it was a very somber flight . No announcements were made to the effect , but for the people sitting around the rows , it was very sobering . The aircraft landed and everyone was told to remain in their seats . ER staff along with a bunch of other personnel came onboard . The body was removed . Passengers were deplaned . Years later , I was watching an episode of <URL> where an Emirates flight suffers a similar tragedy where a business class passenger is found unconcious . In addition to the normal scenario on board that I faced , the documentary revealed that : The crew was changed The person was pronounced dead by the local authorities
The purpose of the roll posts is to let the pilot have some control authority in hover and stabilization , along with controlling aircraft attitude . Basically , the <URL> used in the VTOL F-35 has three components connected by drive shaft ( along with the engine ) : The LiftFan at the front Three-bearing swivel module ( 3BSM ) , which turns the nozzle through 95 $ ^ \ circ $ , and Two Roll posts on either side of the fuselage . <URL> F-35 Liftfan system ; image from <URL> Basically , some bypass air is directed towards the ( individually adjustable ) roll post ducts to ensure stability during hover , which is done by the onboard computer . In this image , you can see the roll post doors opening on outboard sides of the MLG doors . <URL> F-35 roll post doors opening ; image from <URL> The 3-Bearing Swivel Module ( 3BSM ) has three segments driven by two actuators ( the first one drives the first segment , while the second one drives the second segment directly and the third one through an angle gearbox ) . The three segments are cut at an angle , so that when transferring from forward flight to hover , the central segment ends up with its longer edge at the top ( so that their sections with maximum length are on the same side ) , thus ' summing ' the bearing offset angles to give a 95 $ ^ \ circ $ deflection of the jetpipe nozzle in the downward direction . From <URL> : The three-bearing swivel nozzle , 3BSN , design uses three segments of the engine exhaust duct cut on an angle and joined by two airtight circular bearings . External motors drive geared teeth in these segments to rotate them to create the deflected thrust . The forward and aft segments always stay aligned with one another in the rotational axis . The center segment rotates through 180 degrees relative to them . The third bearing is on the back of the engine aft of the turbine stage and provides the ability to swivel the nozzle thrust axis in yaw at any pitch angle . <URL> Three bearing swivel module , from <URL>
( Note : This answer is tailored to the U.S. / FAA , because that is what I 'm familiar with . All the citations and references are FAA materials . If anyone has any tips on possible international differences , please let me know and I 'll edit them in . That said , I believe the descriptions I give are fairly consistent across the world , even if the FAA reg citations do n't directly apply . ) In what situations does ATC ask for ident , and is it ever required by procedure ? Generally , " ident " is used to help a controller identify an aircraft 's secondary radar ( transponder ) return . By asking the pilot to " squawk ident , " the controller can ensure that the aircraft he/she is talking to matches the radar target he thinks is that aircraft . It can also be used for communication , to allow a pilot to respond if their radio transmitter has failed . Specifically : It is a method to allow a controller to identify an aircraft on radar , per section 5-3-3 of <URL> : When using only Mode 3/A radar beacon to identify a target , use one of the following methods : a. Request the aircraft to activate the " IDENT " feature of the transponder and then observe the identification display . For lost communication , per section 10-4-4 of <URL> : Take the following actions , as appropriate , if two-way radio communications are lost with an aircraft : c. Attempt to re-establish communication by having the aircraft use its transponder or make turns to acknowledge clearances and answer questions . Request any of the following in using the transponder : 1 . Request the aircraft to reply Mode 3/A " IDENT . " This last scenario is common when experiencing radio failures . If ATC suspects that you might be able to hear them but not to talk back , they might say something like " Cessna 12345 , if you can hear me , squawk ident . " If you reply by pressing the IDENT button , they can then issue you further instructions and ask you to acknowledge those instructions by pressing IDENT again . What does the transponder actually do in this mode ? In normal operation , every time the transponder receives an interrogation from a ground station , it replies with a data block containing certain pieces of information . <URL> : The encoded pressure altitude ( for Mode C transponders ) A 12-bit identification code ( this is the 4-digit code you select in the cockpit ) A single extra bit for the " ident " flag When you push the IDENT button in the cockpit , the transponder sets that extra " ident " bit in its reply data . Anytime the transponder is interrogated while IDENT is active ( for a set duration of time after you press the button in the cockpit ) , its reply data block will have the IDENT bit set . ATC computer systems notice this and cause the IDENT to be shown on the controller 's radar display . What does the controller see on their screen ? It depends on the type of radar system in use . Generally the radar target will either blink , its symbol will change ( or " blossom " ) , or an indication such as " ID " will blink in the aircraft 's data block ( where the callsign is shown ) . The AIM has some schematic pictures that show what an IDENT looks like on an ARTS-III scope ( an older system still in use at some TRACONs ) . See <URL> and <URL> . I will try to find some pictures of other radar systems such as those used at ARTCCs and newer TRACONs . Does it depend at all on either the code or the mode the transponder is currently set for ? The code does n't matter . The IDENT flag is an extra bit in the transponder 's reply data that 's independent of the 12 bits used for the code . Obviously the IDENT will only be observed if the transponder is operating ( not OFF or in a STANDBY mode ) . But the IDENT works in any mode used by normal civilian transponders ( Modes A , C or S ) .
end question
start question
How can you stop your missile locking onto a friendly target ?
First off , very rarely will you shoot at an unidentified aircraft . Most engagements require a visual ID , or a hostile action , prior to engagement . However , you will also program your aircraft with specific ROE logic that will indicate that certain aircraft are friendly , as identified by IFF transponders , Link 16 , etc. . You can still lock up friendly aircraft , and we frequently do to facilitate rendezvous with friendly aircraft and to clear ourselves from traffic , but if your master switch goes to ARM and you have a friendly locked up , there 's a good chance you wo n't be flying again for awhile , if ever . When we lock up an aircraft , 99 % of the time , it does not indicate an intention to shoot . By using our radar and " locking up " a target we get target aircraft altitude , speed , range , target aspect , heading , $ Vc $ , etc , all useful things that come in handy for routine events .
Most aircraft compasses include compensating magnets to correct for installation error ( due to natural magnetic fields in an aircraft from steel parts and electrical equipment ) . When installing a new compass or performing significant electrical work on an aircraft the compass may need to be re-calibrated and the compensating magnets adjusted ( typically by turning small screws , like the ones shown below ) . <URL> There are several ways to calibrate ( or " swing " ) an aircraft compass - the use of a properly-surveyed compass rose constructed to applicable FAA standards and marked on an airport is one of them , and ensures the compass swing is being performed in an area free of magnetic disturbances which should result in an accurate calibration . The basic procedure is to taxi the aircraft to the compass rose and align it with the compass directions using a combination of the ground markings and a " gunsight " compass . A full description of the procedure can be found in <URL> , Chapter 12-37 ( " Compass Swing " ) , but the quick-and-dirty version is : Taxi out to the compass rose and align the aircraft so it is pointing toward Magnetic North . Adjust the compass compensating magnets so that the compass reads North . Turn the airplane so it is pointing toward Magnetic East ( 090 ) . Adjust the compass compensating magnets so that the compass reads East . Turn the airplane so it is pointing toward Magnetic South ( 180 ) . Adjust the compass compensating magnets to remove one half of the " South " error . Turn the airplane so it is pointing toward Magnetic West ( 270 ) Adjust the compass compensating magnets to remove one half of the " West " error . Once the compensating magnets have been adjusted a Compass Deviation Card is prepared to inform the pilot of the remaining compass error . Beginning with Magnetic West ( 270 ) turn the aircraft to align with each of the 30-degree lines on the compass rose ( 270 , 300 , 330 , North , 30 , 60 , 90 , 120 , 150 , 180 , 210 , 240 ) , and the error is recorded on a compass deviation card similar to the one shown below . <URL> A compass reading within ± 10 degrees on each 30-degree heading marker is considered acceptable per AC 43-13 , and better results are usually achieved . The compass swing is typically performed with the engine and electrical accessories ( radios ) running per AC 43-13 . Some mechanics may also perform a second swing with radios off , and include an alternate deviation card for that configuration .
I 'd recommend reviewing Chart 5-23 from the PA-44 POH - Climb performance one engine operating - gear up for specific numbers based on aircraft weight and atmospherics . If you 're not seeing a positive rate of climb at your best rate of climb , single engine airspeed , then you 're not going to see it at the best angle of climb airspeed single engine either . By definition , Vyse is the best rate of climb that you 're going to see on a single engine ; any other airspeed , including Vxse , is going to give you a lower rate of climb , or greater rate of descent if a positive rate is not possible . And attempting to acquire and hold Vxse you 're getting close to the reverse side of the power curve , combined with ever decreasing rudder authority , it would be easy to have the aircraft drop below Vmc and depart from controlled flight .
The torque in a helicopter is generated by the engine driving the main rotor in one direction , which causes the fuselage to spin in the other direction . The tail rotor shaft is horizontally mounted and hence creates it own ' lift ' to provide anti-torque . The pitch of the tail rotor gives directional control . Common ways to design a helicopter without a tail rotor : Tandem rotors : Two main rotors mounted one in front of the other . The rotor discs spin in opposite directions . All power from the engines is used for lift . Example : CH-47 Transverse rotors : Two main rotors mounted side-by-side . Example : Kamov Ka-22 Co-axial rotors : Two rotor discs are mounted one on top of the other . The engine units power both rotors . This structure requires a very complex swashplate mechanism . Example : Kamov Ka-25 Intermeshing rotors : In this main rotor assembly , the two set rotor masts are installed at a slight angle to each other , in a transversely symmetric manner , so that the rotor blades intermesh without colliding with each other . Example : Kaman K-MAX Tip jet : This is an interesting solution to the no-tail-rotor problem . Instead of driving the rotors with a turboshaft engine , compressed air is sent through nozzles installed at the tips of rotor blades . The engines effectively push against the air rather than the helicopter fuselage . The rotor spins just like a Catherine wheel . Example : Hiller Hornet NOTAR : NOTAR - NO TAil Rotor uses a fan inside the boom to build a high volume of low-pressure air , which exits through two slots and creates a boundary layer flow of air along the tailboom utilizing the Coandă effect . The boundary layer changes the direction of airflow around the tailboom , creating thrust opposite the motion imparted to the fuselage by the torque effect of the main rotor . Example : MD-900 Refer to <URL> for more !
I had this happen to me on my first license . I got in touch with the FAA Examiner and he had me contact the local Flight Standards Office ( FSDO ) who corrected it for me . If it was a mistake on the application , your Certifying Officer ( read : FAA Examainer ) can allow you to edit the information through IACRA ( <URL> ) and the license re-issued . If all of the information was correct , but it was misprinted , you would want to call your local FSDO . FSDO Search : <URL> Your local FSDO can help you with : Low-flying aircraft Accident Reporting Air carrier certification and operations Aircraft maintenance Aircraft operational issues Aircraft permits Airmen certification ( licensing ) for pilots , mechanics , repairmen , dispatchers , and parachute riggers Certification and modification issues Enforcement of Airmen &amp; Aircraft Regulations
The biggest problem is that thrust reversers take time to move . During that time they are still producing reverse thrust ( even if only at idle ) and slowing you down . They must all completely close before you get forward thrust and can add power to start accelerating again . Then , what happens if they do n't stow , or only part of them stow ? Now you 've used up valuable runway that could have been used to stop ( or at least slow down more ) and are no longer in a position to takeoff from . The consequences can be pretty severe .
No , the opposite is in fact true . When the water condenses , it releases thermal energy , causing the air to rise even faster . That is why some glider pilots ( who are appropriately licensed ) fly , not just under , but into cumulus clouds to gain height . Think of it this way : when water vaporizes , it absorbs thermal energy . That is why , for example , humans sweat to cool down . As the sweat vaporizes , it removes thermal energy ( heat ) from the body . This thermal energy is stored in the water vapor , and will be released when it condenses . The air in a thermal will only stop rising once it reaches the temperature of the surrounding air , which can happen at different altitudes , depending on the state of the atmosphere . The main reason rising air cools down is because there is a relation between temperature and pressure . As the air rises higher , the pressure drops , and the temperature does the same . This can be depicted on a diagram of the temperature gradient , like this : <URL> The thick red line is the temperature of air at different levels . The oblique lines indicate the rate at which a column of rising air will cool down as it rises . As long as the thick red line is more inclined than the oblique lines , it is an indication that air will continue to rise , since it will not cool down fast enough to reach the temperature of the surrounding air .
Wheel wells are deceptively large spaces when the gear is down . It is fully possible to climb up and hide inside one . It 's a very different story when the gear is retracted . On many aircraft , the gear doors are closed when the gear is not in motion , making the space look bigger . They are fairly easy to access through the landing gear with a little bit of climbing , or if low enough ( like the example below ) just jump up into . 737 Wheel Well , Petr Volek , from airliners.net A graphic about a similar event in Hawaii a few months ago : <URL> From the <URL> Gear stowaways are not new and there have been plenty of occurrences over the years , unfortunately most result in fatalities . Gear bays are unpressurized , hence normally very cold with air too thin to sustain life . Gear bays are very cramped when the gear is up . If you 're in the wrong spot , you will be injured . It is when the landing gear is lowered ( and doors opened ) for landing that the fatalities occur , assuming they have not already expired from the environment during the flight . Unable to hold onto the airframe and stay off moving parts they ( very gruesomely ) fall out minutes away from landing . This is also the story that media often picks up .
In the US , you 'll need to be 16 old to start training and 17 to get your Private Pilot 's license in a piston-powered aircraft . To get your license you 'll have to have a minimum of 40 hours total time , including at least 20 with an instructor and 10 solo . You will also have to pass a written test , and get a Medical certificate . Details : If you 're pursuing a Private Pilot license , per 14 CFR § 61.83 ( a ) or ( b ) you must be 16 years old to get a student pilot certificate ( or 14 years old if you 're going to train in a balloon or glider . ) NOTE : 14 CFR mean Code of Federal Regulations , Title 14 - Aeronautics &amp; Space . § 61 . ## means " Part 61 " which covers Certification of Pilots and Instructors . To start training you will also have to pass a medical exam for a 3rd Class Medical Certificate , per 14 CFR § 61.23 ( a ) ( 3 ) . If you 're generally healthy , getting a 3rd Class Medical is n't terribly difficult . Assuming you successfully complete the training , per 14 CFR § 61.103 ( a ) or ( b ) you can get your Private Pilot license for an airplane at 17 years old ( or 16 years old for a balloon or glider . ) Per 14 CFR § 61.109 ( a ) to get your license you will need to have completed at least 40 hours of flight time , including at least 20 hours of time with an instructor and 10 hours of solo time . However , many pilots take more than the required minimum 40 hours to get their license . My suggestion is to try to complete your training in as short a calendar time as is possible . By taking lessons frequently ( more than once per week ) you will minimize the amount of " repeat " lessons , which will help you get your license with fewer hours . If you 're only taking a lesson every few weeks , you will end up repeating topics and spending more than the required 40 hour minimum . Per 14 CFR § 61.35 , you will have to complete a ground school program ( can be with an instructor , or a " home study " course ) before you take the Knowledge test ( aka : written exam . ) Per 14 CFR § 61.109 ( a ) ( 3 ) , you will need at least 3 hours of " Instrument " flight training to get your Private Pilot license . That 's really not intended to be enough for you to fly safely on instruments , but to give you a basic set of skills to get out of a low-visibility situation . If you keep up with your flying , getting in Instrument rating is a GREAT idea , once you have enough hours . You can look up the specific wording of all of the rules at <URL> Another good resource for student pilots is the Aircraft Owner 's and Pilot 's Association 's Learn to Fly page <URL> .
Short Answer : This will be very generic ... It depends on what type of missile it is : either IR or radar-guided . With IR missiles , the missile is caged and locked at missile boresight . The missile is commanded to the aircraft cueing system . When the target enters the missile 's FOV , the pilot uncages the seeker head , at this point you will hear a loud , " whiney " audible tone . The missile then transfers to track mode . The pilot pickles ... the missile batteries become operational , fins are unlocked , autopilot takes over , midbody connector is retracted , then ignition is commanded . With radar-guided missiles , it depends on the missile and what type of radar they have . Usually the radar is slewed to a target and locked up . When the pilot pickles , the missiles is either receiving data from the aircraft via datalink or is in active mode with the missile 's radar tracking the target . Eventually the missile 's radar will take over and track the target . The datalink can be terminated early by the pilot if the missile 's radar can take over allowing for some pretty cool tactical stuff . Long answer : There is A LOT more to it , but this is very basic . Tread very lightly with questions like this . A lot of the stuff ( especially numbers ) with regards to weaponry and modern threats are classified . And even though some of the stuff is n't classified , it 's still OPSEC and should n't really be discussed on an internet forum .
You do n't have to be an ATP to fly an airliner . In fact , you can fly an airliner as a private pilot . John Travolta is the best example I can think of ... He has a house right by a private airport and flies his own personal Boeing 707 ( with Qantas livery ) and another jet aircraft ( Gulfstream I think ) . With any large aircraft like this over 12500 lbs or with turbojet engine ( s ) , a pilot does need a type specific rating to fly such an aircraft as well as needing to be " current " in that type , but may do so as long as current at any certificate " level " of private pilot or above . However , to fly an airliner as a scheduled air carrier pilot , then yes , an ATP is required as this type of flight would not fall under part 91 or part 135 of the FARs , but instead part 121 which requires that all pilots have ATP certificates .
There 's no " standard holding pattern " at any airport , towered or not . If the runway is occupied or temporarily closed for some reason , you might was well leave the traffic pattern and go putt around for a while someplace where there are fewer aircraft . At a towered airport , the controller will likely tell you what to do - but again , you can make both his life and yours easier by just leaving the pattern and going somewhere else until the situation is resolved .
Assuming your question is for the US airspace . Short answer : When the activation periods can not be totally anticipated , the description of the area must reference the possibility of activation announced by NOTAM . The NOTAM notice is normally not shorter than 4 hours before the activation . While IFR flights will be prevented by ATC to enter or transit an active restricted area , non-controlled flights are under the sole responsibility of the pilot , as regard to flying within a restricted area . A VFR pilot must take <URL> for restricted areas into account when preparing the flight ( FSS ) , and should contact ATC when airborne for confirmation of the activation status . From the pilot standpoint You should not enter an inactive restricted area without contacting the controlling agency . From <URL> : Penetration of restricted areas without authorization from the using or controlling agency may be extremely hazardous to the aircraft and its occupants You are not allowed to enter an active restricted area without prior permission . From the Federal Register , <URL> : No person may operate an aircraft within a restricted area between the designated altitudes and during the time of designation , unless he has the advance permission of ( a ) The using agency described in § 73.15 ; or ( b ) The controlling agency described in § 73.17 . FAA ATC , as the controlling agency , manages restricted area transit or avoidance , based on activation status , but only for IFR flights . A pilot of a non-controlled flight ( e.g. VFR ) has the sole and complete responsibility for getting all information about the restrictions that may apply during its flight over a restricted area . The briefing with <URL> should include such research , contacting ATC prior to entering the restricted area seems the minimum . From controlling / using agencies standpoint A restricted area is part of the SUA ( Special Use Airspace areas ) , and is jointly managed by Using and Controlling agencies . <URL> , 21-2-4 , Times of use : a . The times of use indicate the period during which the using agency is authorized to schedule and use a SUA area . These times should reflect when normal operations are expected to occur . In determining the times of use , the proponent should select the minimum period needed to meet the using agency 's requirements . The goal is to capture the majority of the day-to-day activities . When the using agency has a requirement for intermittent , less frequent use of the airspace ( outside the specific published timeperiod ) , a provision to activate the airspace by NOTAM may be stated in the SUA legal description . What does that say ? If some periods of activation can not be anticipated , the phrasing " by NOTAM " must be used . NOTAM activation . Use " By NOTAM " or " Other Times by NOTAM " to indicate when a NOTAM must be issued in order to activate the area . Regarding the notice prior to activation by NOTAM : ( e ) . NOTAMs should be issued as far in advance as feasible to ensure widest dissemination of the information to airspace users . Normally , the minimum advance notice should be at least 4 hours prior to the activation time . NOTE - Under no circumstances may SUA be activated by a NOTAM unless the words " By NOTAM " or " other times by NOTAM " are stated in the area 's legal description . A 4-hour notice is the minimum usually accepted for the publication of the NOTAM prior to activation of the restricted area . I assume the exceptions would be handled on a case by case basis . An area without a NOTAM mention can not be activated outside of the published periods . Example : Related : <URL> <URL> <URL>
No , fiddling with your altimeter setting does n't change the airspace you are flying in . So you ca n't bust the class A above 18 000 ft by changing the setting . The top and bottom boundaries of the airspace are defined by applying the altimeter setting local to that airspace . Conversely , and perhaps more important , you ca n't weasel out of a busted airspace by quickly changing your altimeter setting . Your transponder sends your altitude as if your altimeter was set to 1013.25 hPA / 29.92 inHg , regardless of what your actual setting is . The ATC system will do the conversion according to their setting , so you ca n't fool them . Note that the altitude resolution of your transponder is either 100 feet ( Mode C ) or 25 feet ( Mode S with appropriate altimeter encoder ) , so 1 feet difference does n't really matter .
<URL> ( and other Israeli ) aircraft are equipped with <URL> since fire at Arkira B757 in Mombasa in 2002 . Infra-red counter-measures are relatively simple ( it has a small radar to detect missiles and if one is detected , dispenses burning decoys ) , so it can be mounted on almost any aircraft . The system however poses additional fire risk ( the flares have to burn very hot and the system has to be able to ignite them ) , so it is only used in areas where risk of terrorist attack is high . Switzerland ( and possibly other countries ) even prohibit it on their territory . Apparently laser-based system is in development to resolve the fire issue , but it will still only work against IR-guided missiles . But for radar guided missiles like the <URL> system probably involved in this incident there only seem to be three defences : Hit the tracking radar with your own missile ( like <URL> ) before they hit you . Fighter aircraft is obviously needed to carry it , though most fighter types could be used as they only need radar detector and suitable hardpoints . Generate sufficiently intense microwave signal that it overdrives the detector in the missile head and effectively blinds it . This is heavy , expensive and requires power ( not outside the range of common aircraft generators , but the increased fuel burn would probably be noticeable ) , so even most fighters do n't have it . Instead the system ( like <URL> ) is mounted on special-purpose aircraft like <URL> that gets included in attack group trying to penetrate enemy territory with heavy air defences . Minimizing radar cross-section , ie . stealth . That requires completely different designs that are aerodynamically less efficient , because the funny shapes are necessary part of being stealth and that are not trackable by ATC surveillance radars . Obviously the first is out of question for airliners - carrying any weapons or munitions of war on civil airliners is prohibited by <URL> article 35 . While the second would be technically possible ( <URL> , an airborne command centre , and <URL> , the Air Force One , are modified Boeing 747s and both have counter-measures against both IR-guided and radar-guided missiles ) , those modifications would be a heavy , expensive and complex protection against something that <URL> . And the third would have too many disadvantages . It would hide the aircraft from ATC surveillance radars that have averted many more accidents than were caused by missiles and it would require new , less efficient designs that would be massively expensive . Just few month ago we wanted MH-370 to be seen by radars . We ca n't have both . Staying away from the war zones is a safer option anyway and is normally possible . In this case likely explanation why MH-17 did n't is that the Ukrainian authorities were not aware that the rebels have this air defence system , assumed they only have a lighter-weight one ( those are often usable to about 20000 ' ; the military aircraft shot down on previous days were lower ) and only closed the airspace up to FL320 rather than completely .
Difficulties and costs of maintaining the lock-wiring are obvious . My intuition says it only has to be used as a last resort when no other way is available . Nevertheless any aviation junk yard says my intuition is wrong . Lock-wires are everywhere in the old gas turbine engines . My question is : Do they now use other methods of bolted joints ` safety in gas turbine engines ( jam nuts and locking washers in particular ) ? Well , maintaining safety lockwire is n't as hard as you think it is : A pair of safety wire pliers will last you a lifetime , and they do about 80 % of the work for you ( all the maintenance monkey needs to do is cut an appropriate length of wire , hook up the pliers , and twist , making sure the wire is positioned so as to always tighten the fastener ) . It is easy to inspect , repairing is simple ( just replace the damaged wire ) , and cost for a spool of wire is minimal compared to using a new self-locking nut every time something needs to be taken apart ( safety wire earns its keep for temporary assembly too : You can wire the assembly when you 're done , rather than wearing the lock material on a self-locking nut ) . Other methods of securing fasteners are used on aircraft ( in engines and elsewhere ) , including cotter pins and self-locking nuts with nylon inserts to prevent them from slipping . The cotter pin is easy to verify ( like safety wire ) , and is widely used . Self locking nuts on the other hand can slip without much visual indication ( torque seal or similar products are often used to mark the nut and fastener to give a visual indication of slip ) . A disadvantage to self locking nuts is that they must be replaced any time the fastener is removed ( reused nuts will have a lower locking resistance , <URL> ) , and using them introduces a potential for human error in maintenance operations that does not exist with safety wire , which must be cut to remove it . ( There are even folks who try to reuse cotter pins , though normally they are cut to remove them and thus can not be reused . )
Jessica Cox explains it herself in this video : <URL> She 's using her legs in place of hands ( I.e , using her feet to manipulate the controls , throttle etc ) and she specifically flies an Ercoupe which has no rudder pedals .
No . The fuel system would risk to clog up with gelled diesel fuel in the low temperatures at cruise altitude . If you had omitted " safely " in your question , the answer might be different . Before I repeat what others have written before , I refer you to <URL> . The essential part is : Why do n't we burn highway diesel or heating kerosene in a 747 ? In a word , purity . The additional controls imposed on Jet-A fuel by the associated standard produce a product with well-known properties . When you fuel a plane with Jet-A you can be confident that fuel wo n't freeze in the tanks at altitude ( at least not unless you cold-soak it below -40 degrees ) . You also know the fuel will be " clean " and wo n't gunk up fuel filters or leave deposits inside the combustion core of the engine that can cause problems later .
There is no standard because there 's no standard emergency . The response to " Say fuel onboard " ( or the way the question is phrased ) depends on who cares most about the answer . Fuel Remaining ( in minutes ) This is how you report it when you declare a minimum fuel emergency , and it 's most useful for approach and tower controllers to know exactly how long they have to get you on the ground before your engine gets quiet ( and if they can get you to an airport in that timeframe ) . Fuel Remaining ( in hours ) This is what you 'll give for most general emergencies , and also what 's entered on flight plans . It 's the most generally useful number to a pilot or controller . If you 're VFR-only pilot stuck on top of an overcast and call ATC with a pan ( urgency ) message because ca n't see a way through the controller will want to know how far they can vector you to find a hole before it becomes a fuel emergency too . Fuel Onboard ( in Pounds/Kilograms or Gallons/Liters ) The folks who care about this number drive around in ugly fire trucks wearing silver jumpsuits ( the ARFF crews ) : If the worst happens they want to know how big a fire they might have to deal with , and how much foam they 're going to need to handle it .
<URL> ( <URL> ) Reversers would slow down or stop the windmilling by blocking the majority of the bypass . If repositioning the aircraft abeam the wind is not possible , then deploying the reversers does the trick . It 's the <URL> used when starting a jet engine in strong tailwind . Windmilling can be <URL> . The clacking sound you hear <URL> . Jetliners do n't have shaft brakes , but some <URL> .
end question
start question
Is ATC connected to the Internet & why ?
The Air Traffic Control system does transmit information over the internet . The Air Traffic Control system has a number of components , some of which transmit information over the internet . According to <URL> , Office of Inspector General , DoT , . . Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) has increasingly turned toward the use of commercial software and Internet Protocol ( IP ) - based technologies to modernize ATC systems . Note that the ATC is not connected directly to the internet . It is the behind scene connections , that are routed through the internet . According to <URL> , ... when most managers say there is no connection to the Internet , they are unaware of maintenance connections . Behind the scenes there are almost always semi-direct connections through routers shared between the control system and business systems that can be exploited Actually , the use of internet for sharing of information is increasing . <URL> modernization involves a significant amount of information transmission over the internet . According to US <URL> , NextGen is a modernization effort begun in 2004 by FAA to transform the nation 's ground-based ATC system into a system that uses satellite - based navigation and other advanced technology . ... These new technologies will use an Internet Protocol ( IP ) based network to communicate . <URL> Image from GAO report on Air Traffic Control This increasing connection to the internet does increase the associated risks . From the same GAO report : ... the shift to NextGen technologies will require FAA to replace its proprietary , relatively isolated ATC computer systems with information systems that interoperate and share data throughout FAA 's operations and those of its aviation partners . ... These new systems ... will also employ digital and Internet-based computer-networking technologies , exposing the air traffic control ( ATC ) system to new cybersecurity risks . As to why the ATC is connected to the internet , it basically boils down to ease of operation . According to [ NATS ] , which manages UK airspace , We ... are now working all over the world within an industry where systems are connected across organisations , countries and continents . Such an interconnected worldwide system requires a standard platform , which will not be possible ( or atleast very difficult to maintain ) if a closed , proprietary platform is used . So , the ATC does use internet , though this is mainly to transmit information . However , I 'm not aware of the security systems , though we can be sure that they do have some sort of encryption ( If I 'm correct , Lockheed Martin supplies the software ) and have firewalls to protect the systems .
If the front seat ejected first , the drag would probably bring him too close in the trajectory of the rear seat , thus making a collision of both probable . Since the rear seat is ejected first , it experiences drag earlier than the front seat and will thus not have an increased probability of hitting it .
The four-digit transponder code that is entered by a pilot is an octal number rather than a decimal number , and in the octal numbering system , only the digits 0-7 are valid . As far as why , internally it 's actually a 12-bit binary number and octal works really well since can be used as a " shortcut " for entering groups of three binary digits at a time ( 000 - 111 , which is 0-7 in octal ) . If it were designed today , with the additional computing power and software complexity available , it would be possible to use a decimal number even if it is stored as binary internally , just so that it is more familiar . At the time that the system was created though , changing the dials directly set the code in hardware and doing the conversion would have been much more complex / difficult / expensive . In short , it was convenient for the engineers and manufacturers , and just an oddity for the end users , so they left it that way .
I certainly would not say that the 737 MAX is " losing heavily " to the A320neo . The A320neo is entering service in the next couple of months ( October 2015 . ) The 737 MAX is n't entering service for another 2 years ( 2017 . ) I do n't think many aircraft manufacturers would be upset with having <URL> for an aircraft that is still 2 years from even entering service . It should further be noted that the A320neo was right around the same total when it was 2 years from entering service . Some additional factors that come into play : The A320 line tends to be more popular in the low-budget Asian market , which is growing significantly right now . The U.S. Dollar is currently relatively strong compared to the Euro , due to lots of economic problems in the Eurozone . This means that products exported by European manufacturers are relatively cheaper than products exported by American manufacturers compared to their usual price difference . Obviously , that 's an advantage for Airbus , as it means that it 's cheaper than normal right now for customers to buy Airbus vs. buying Boeing . This is , again , especially important to the cost-sensitive low-budget markets . Airbus ' Chinese assembly line allows them to make A320s for the Asian market quite a bit cheaper than Boeing can make 737s for that market , due to the major differences in labor costs .
Three reasons : The B-52 stayed useful by taking on " easier " roles as it aged . It actually started life as a high-performance penetrator , relying on speed and altitude to stay safe . Think Early Cold War , shortly after WWII . When ground-launched missiles improved , the B-52 was forced into flying low-altitude penetration underneath radars ( a role for which it was NOT designed and rapidly wore out the airframe ) accompanied by a host of other aircraft to protect it and help it penetrate defenses . Despite their escorts , we lost dozens of B-52 's in Vietnam . Later in the Cold War , the B-52 was completely outmatched by air defenses ( fighters , SAM 's , etc ) , and had little hope of penetrating defenses ( at either low or high altitude ) to drop nuclear bombs . Instead , it was relegated to flying in friendly/neutral airspace , lobbing <URL> nuclear <URL> into the Soviet heartland ( a tactic they feared more than low-level penetrators ) . It was basically a missile bus . <URL> , the B-52 only flew after air defenses had already been defeated by other aircraft ( F-16 's , F-15 's , F-111 's , etc ) . It was basically a bomb truck . During ALLIED FORCE ( 1999 ) , B-1 's and other conventional ( non-stealthy ) a/c <URL> , even when employing advanced decoys and other countermeasures . The B-1 , btw , went through a similar progession , starting out as a high-performance penetrator , then forced into low-altitude penetration , then also relegated to bomb/missile trucking , pushed back by AAA , MANPADS , SAM 's , look-down shoot-down radar , improved Soviet interceptors , and Soviet AWACS . In fact , the B-1 and B-52 fly largely the same missions today . In 40 years , the B-52 went from being the US ' primary strategic tool against another superpower to being outclassed by small nations . Bomb/missile trucking is an " easy " job , but <URL> . You ca n't bomb your targets until the air defenses have already been defeated -- after the " first week " of a war , the most critical phase , when you need them the most . In other words , the B-52 ( and B-1 ) are very easy to shoot down , so they 're not nearly as useful as they used to be ; ' you ca n't fly them unless many of the toughest enemies are already dead ' . So you ca n't use them as often as you want . @MSalters phrased it quite nicely : the reason the B-52 ( and B-1 ) has n't changed is because other a/c are doing the hard work for them ( tearing down enemy defenses ) , and such a/c have advanced immensely . But that amount of support is quite resource intensive , so if you wanted to fly B-52 's in the " first week " when enemy defenses are still effective , you 'll need a lot of help : <URL> ( Image source : <URL> - Lieutenant General David A. Deptula , USAF ( Ret . ) , 2015 . ) The same was true with strike packages during Desert Storm , eg only a third of the a/c dropped bombs while the rest provided support ( jamming , anti-radiation , top cover , etc ) . We did n't build enough B-1 's and B-2 's to replace it , so we kept some B-52 's to fill in the gaps ( we do n't have any other suitable heavy bombers in inventory , this is the only choice ) . The B-1 was a stopgap until the B-2 showed up , of which we meant to build 130 ( cut to 21 airframes ) , which would have comprised the bulk of today 's bomber force . We were busy buying new fighters and cargo planes . The official , stated goal is to recapitalize [ nearly ] the entire bomber fleet because it 's increasingly obsolete . That 's worth repeating : the B-1 and B-52 are near obsolete . They 're not nearly capable enough . We do n't want to maintain the same capabilities . We want way more capability than what we have . We 've only waited this long because <URL> . The LRS-B ( new stealth bomber ; formerly NGLRS ) will replace the B-52 starting around next decade . The contract is expected to be awarded very soon . The Pentagon <URL> . Looks very promising -- well managed , on budget , very capable , and surprisingly mature . In short , we still fly the B-52 today because we do n't have a choice , not because we want to . Some background . The USAF operates ~ 160 bombers : 76 B-52 's 63 B-1 's 20 B-2 's
Yes , and it is exactly the same : Say again . Station calling Georgetown Ground say again your callsign Lufthansa 123 say again speed Scandinavian 123 say again all after ' good morning ' Or simply United 345 say again
In the case of Tatenhill , the field was previously used by the RAF . Evidently the original control tower was <URL> , which explains why there is still a control tower there . But currently it is a private field , where the amount of traffic does n't warrant operating the control tower . <URL> lists a Tatenhill Radio frequency that provides A/G ( air to ground ) service during certain hours . <URL> suggest <URL> . There are many airports in similar situations , that do not operate a control tower ( whether or not they have one ) , or only operate at certain times , when there is not enough traffic for a control tower to be needed . VFR rules give pilots the responsibility to " see and avoid " each other in these areas , and announce their intentions on the appropriate frequencies . Also , see the related questions to the right , especially : <URL>
What happens in the control room ? Aborting a take-off at high speed is dangerous , even if the aircraft is travelling below V1 . If the aircraft is already rolling , the controller will make a quick decision whether the situation justifies an aborted take-off . For example , if there is traffic infringing the runway and a crash is imminent the controller would attempt to stop the aircraft . If an aircraft is attempting to take-off from a taxiway in snowy conditions it might be safer to just let him take-off unless there is other traffic on the taxiway . If the aircraft has n't started rolling the decision is of course easily made . What does the ATC do and how does he/she make sure pilots understand the cancellation ? Using standard phraseology is the best way of making sure the message comes across , especially in international aviation . If the aircraft is not yet rolling , the proper ICAO phraseology is : Tower : Big Jet 345 hold position , Cancel take - off , I say again cancel take - off ( due to vehicle on the runway ) Big Jet : Holding , Big Jet 345 If the aircraft already started rolling the controller would say : Tower : Big Jet 345 stop immediately , ( Big Jet 345 stop immediately ) ! Big Jet : Stopping , Big Jet 345 No immediate verbal reply is to be expected as the flight crew have other things to care about at that moment . The effect of their actions should be clearly visible from the tower . How do the pilots in the aircraft taking off respond ? Are they trained for this scenario ? The crew will assess whether they can stop safely . Below V1 , they will probably abort the take-off , above probably not . The final judgement is made by the captain . He might reason that it is safer to get airborne and pass the infringing traffic overhead than running into it at full brakes . They are trained for aborted take-offs , but since there are so many non-standard situations the final decision is made on the basis of a mix of training and expert judgement . Is a takeoff cancelled even after V1 ? Since ATC does not know when the aircraft passes V1 , a controller might attempt to cancel the takeoff after V1 . The flight crew will only attempt to cancel the take-off after V1 if it is clear that there is no way the aircraft can become - and stay - airborne safely . In such a case it becomes damage control rather than damage prevention .
It depends on the type of situation . If the aircraft is unable to land for some reason , we 'll want to know the remaining fuel to get an idea of how long the aircraft can realistically stay airborne . For an aircraft coming in for an emergency landing - as you have already guessed - the reason we ask for remaining fuel is because the fire and rescue personel needs this information . We will also ask such an aircraft if they have any dangerous goods onboard , since we need to pass this info on to the fire crew as well . During an emergency , we have a checklist to follow that reminds us which information we need to obtain , and who needs to know what is going on . For a tower position , it may look something like this : <URL> As you can see , fuel and dangerous goods are grouped together , indicating that they are essentially the same thing - something that may cause fire , explode or otherwise cause danger during evacuation of the aircraft .
Sadly , there likely are no official recordings of this story . Unfortunately , there was no <URL> at the time , and unless there is an accident or incident , audio is not routinely archived by the FAA or NTSB . Even when you want to request recent data , the FAA warns , <URL> ( I 've seen elsewhere but could n't find an official source that it can be anywhere from 5-45 days ) , so even if you could find a date of this event , you would n't be able to file a FOI request .
This is a feature offered on some United Airlines aircraft and flights . It 's an interesting way to hear what 's going on in the cockpit . You can find lots of information by searching for <URL> .
Pitch is measured with respect to a plane orthogonal to the local weight ¹ force , which is properly called the horizontal . That is used because : It is equipotential plane of the gravitational field . Moving around it wo n't change your potential energy . Is always well defined . Is smooth and locally flat ( it is still a spherical surface globally , of course ) . Can be measured by averaging inertial forces on board without external reference . It is called simply horizon , presumably because looking at the horizon is the easiest way to find that plane by human senses . Using ground , which is not flat , as reference would n't work . Aircraft need to fly mostly along the equipotential plane , because climbing to a higher one requires adding more energy by the engines and descending below means the aircraft accelerates and needs to dissipate ( = waste ) the energy . So following terrain would require quite a bit more energy than flying horizontal . Plus it would be very complicated . ¹ By weight I mean the sum of gravity and centrifugal force in the reference frame rotating with Earth .
It depends . Some instructions are really simple and with a little practice , are very easy to remember . Other ones will be so common , they are just remembered : But this is where the danger creeps in . It is possible , and has happened , that the crew think they heard something but actually , the instruction was different today . The prudent crew will write it down . <URL> , or boards clipped to the control column on which to write taxi clearances , complex airways clearances and so on . In some large aircraft , many light aircraft and in helicopters , pilots might wear a kneeboard to write instructions on . It is a minor advantage to me that I am left handed and as a helicopter pilot , this means that my kneeboard is on my left leg where I can easily write without taking my hand off the cyclic and having it right next to the collective . <URL> Most instructions come in the same order , every flight . For example , here is a simplified list . This happens every time so the crew know what 's coming next , what it will likely contain , and how to respond : Clearance for the flight plan . Permission to start and push back . Taxi instructions . Departure instructions . Take off clearance . Hand-off from departure controller to area controller . etc etc. . Note that any instruction which will cause the aircraft to change it 's configuration or location must be repeated . The controller then also gets to check they 've got it right . This includes things like speed , direction or altitude changes , taxi and departure instructions , frequency and squawk changes etc. . There are also some words which are only ever used at certain times , e.g. " takeoff " is only ever said when an aircraft is cleared to take off . For example , " ready for departure " tells the controller that the aircraft is prepared to take off immediately . The crew should not say " ready for takeoff " . You can sometimes hear a pilot receiving a long instruction , start to read it back , pause , then ask for a repeat . Very frustrating when you are sitting there waiting to get your request in . You just know they thought they could remember it , but did n't . Write it down if it 's anything except a simple instruction or clearance . Here 's an example of a complex one . SuperAir 123 , cleared to Barcelona via vector departure , fly runway track , climb altitude 5000ft , after passing 2000ft turn right direct Hamm VOR , route as filed , squawk 1234 , information Alpha current , startup approved The crew might write it down like this . Each pilot develops their own preferred shorthand : VD RWY TRK 5000 / 2000 + RT HMM / SQ1234 ALPHA / SU Very brief since they know what each part is and the order they come in . Since it contains instructions , the crew will then read it back . Cleared Barcelona via vector departure , runway track 5000ft , after passing 2000ft right direct Hamm , squawk 1234 , Alpha on-board , startup approved . SuperAir 123 . Finally , a good reason to write stuff down is because sometimes ( and we 've all been there ) , you think you remember , then turn round to your co-pilot 2 minutes later and ask " what was that altitude ? " . Here 's a great <URL> and an approach to writing down clearances .
This situation is due to usually 2 + sectors being worked . Each sector will use its own frequency when split . When these sectors get combined , one of 2 things will happen . 1 ) The controller will just work with both sectors frequencies keyed up and be listening on both and transmitting on both and have everyone go to the approrpriate frequency for the sector they 're in or near . 2 ) The controller wants everyone on one frequency and has everyone going into those sector 's that they are working to be on just one frequency . Frequency congestion and capability ( if the transmitters/receivers are different locations for the different frequencies ) are also factors .
In flight mode the stick commands a load-factor . Which means it will be impossible to flare the aircraft , because as you pull on the stick , you 'll be commanding a positive g-load . Because of this the Airbus has a flare mode which activates at 50 ' RA . At 50 ' the pitch angle is stored ( memorized ) . At 30 ' the aircraft commands a 2 ° nose down ( it takes 8 seconds ) . The pilot would gently counter this by pulling back , resulting in a nice flare and no increase in the auto-thrust . If the pilot did not float for way too long ( they should not ) , the plane will touchdown before the 8 seconds pass , further eliminating the need to push forward on the stick to keep the nose gear planted . The logic reverts to ground mode when two conditions are met : on ground for 5 seconds and pitch angle < 2.5 ° . If the 5 seconds pass and the nose is still +2.5 ° , the logic will remain in the flare mode and the THS will not reset to 0 ° . The pitch will revert to the one set at 50 ' . As the plane continues to slow down this may result in a nasty nose landing gear slam or a tail strike depending on the stored pitch angle and any gusts ( kind of like <URL> ) . <URL> I do recommend you check your company 's Flight Crew Operating Manual ( FCOM ) and to not use the internet for flight . If your instructor does not like too many ' why ' questions during class , you can try and ask them after class . When you get your answers , try to validate them from the FCOM . Some <URL> have custom logic set by Airbus . So the installed logic may differ .
The UHF air band operates in AM in a general range of 225.0 -- 399.95 MHz . Many ATC functions have both VHF and UHF frequencies . For example , <URL> Tower uses 118.3 and 257.6 . ATC will often broadcast on both the VHF and UHF frequencies . You can look up these frequencies on the <URL> to see who is allowed to use these frequencies . This is also located in CFR Title 47 , § 2.106 . According to the table , the the non-emergency allocation of these frequencies is Federal use : In the bands 225-328 .6 MHz , 335.4-399 .9 MHz , and 1350-1390 MHz , the fixed and mobile services are limited to the military services . The bands 235-322 MHz and 335.4-399 .9 MHz are also allocated on a primary basis to the mobile-satellite service , limited to military operations . There are no non-Federal uses cited for those ranges . Also , per <URL> : Non-Federal stations may be authorized to use Federal frequencies in the bands above 25 MHz if the Commission finds , after consultations with the appropriate Federal agency or agencies , that such use is necessary for coordination of Federal and non-Federal activities So it seems that if you do n't have a military purpose , outside of special agreements you are not allowed to use these frequencies . For more information , the National Telecommunications &amp; Information Administration ( NTIA ) has reports on the usage of the <URL> and <URL> of this band . Technically there are also limited non-Federal uses but they do n't apply to this question : The frequency 243 MHz is the frequency in this band for use by survival craft stations and equipment used for survival purposes . ... may also be used , in accordance with the procedures in force for terrestrial radiocommunication services , for search and rescue operations concerning manned space vehicles . For the gap in the ranges mentioned above : The use of the band 328.6-335 .4 MHz by the aeronautical radionavigation service is limited to Instrument Landing Systems ( glide path ) . And additionally for 322-328 .6 MHz : ... all practicable steps shall be taken to protect the radio astronomy service from harmful interference .
So according to EASA , it is the <URL> and specifically in where is specifies 11 criteria regarding STD standards , among them being accuracy of aircraft performance , voice recognition realism , equipment , data displays , etc : STD criteria If a synthetic training device ( STD ) is used for training , it should be approved by the competent authority as part of the course approval process for any training plan . Training organisations should demonstrate how the STD will provide adequate support for the intended training , in particular , how the STD will meet the stated objectives of the practical training exercises and enable the performance objectives to be assessed to the level determined in the training programme . This demonstration and the related documentation should include the following relevant criteria : ( 1 ) the general environment , which should provide an environment in which STD exercises may be run without undue interference from unrelated activities ; ( 2 ) the STD layout ; ( 3 ) the equipment provided ; ( 4 ) the display presentation , functionality , and updating of operational information ; ( 5 ) data displays , including strip displays , where appropriate ; ( 6 ) coordination facilities ; ( 7 ) aircraft performance characteristics , including the availability of manoeuvres , e.g. holding or instrumental landing system ( ILS ) operation , required for a particular simulation ; ( 8 ) the availability of real-time changes during an exercise ; ( 9 ) the processes by which the training organisation can be assured that staff associated with the training conducted with the use of an STD are competent ; ( 10 ) the degree of realism of any voice recognition system associated with the STD ; ( 11 ) where a simulator is an integral part of an operational ATC system , the processes by which the training organisation is assured that interference between the simulated and operational environments is prevented . The extent to which the STD achieves the above criteria will be used to determine the adequacy of the STD for the proposed use . As a general principle , the greater the degree of replication of the operational position being represented the greater the use will be possible for any particular training .
If you are in or around NYC , flightradar24 will give you most , but not all , traffic including helos and ATC radar traffic . flightradar24 most likely has several ADS-B receivers in that area that not only catch aircraft transponder/UAT output , but they also catch FAA ADS-B ground station broadcasts . The ground station will broadcast any known traffic ( mode C radar traffic included ) that ATC is aware of to any client aircraft that are in the area that have their ADS-B output configured to inform the ground station that they are capable of displaying traffic data . Most private GA aircraft with ADS-B are configured this way because there are iPad apps that will display it while airborne . The ground station will broadcast that traffic and a local flightradar24 receiver gets it too and up it goes on the website . The data may be limited to just aircraft in the vicinity of the client aircraft but in an area like NYC , there are typically many GA aircraft ( clients ) out there at any time that are configured as ADS-B in capable .
I have never heard " tally ho " used in civilian aviation and it not a recognised phrase so should not be used . A civilian ATCO would not think positively about anyone using that phrase . It used to be used in military comms in combat . Its usage arose during WW1 when the Royal Flying Corps ( and later the Royal Air Force ) drew its crews mostly from the " officer classes " who , in general , were also fox hunters or supporters of the same . " Tally ho " is the cry shouted out by a huntsman when the fox is spotted and the hunt is on . I served in the RAF from 1976 to 1986 . Then as a civilian in the military until 1993 and in that time never heard the phrase . I suspect that it has died out since it is not standard phraseology and perpetuates stereotypes which have no place in modern , professional organisations . A non-standard , but common phrase is a simple " visual " , but the correct phrase in both civilian and military use is " traffic in sight " .
From what you said , I 'm assuming that the pilot had informed that he/she is going to autoland under VMC . The main reason is that the autoland procedure requires accurate guidance and the ILS signals may be disturbed by the traffic ( both surface and air ) . So , the pilots want to inform the ATC that they want undisturbed signal . From a <URL> : Most ILS installations are subject to signal interference by either surface vehicles or aircraft . To prevent this interference ILS critical areas are established near each localiser and glideslope antenna . The ILS sensitive area is protected from all surface vehicles and aircraft when ILS Category II or III operations are conducted or anticipated . These disturbances may happen when Low Visibility Procedures ( LVPs ) are not in force and may cause problems for the approaching aircraft : When the LVPs are not in force , ILS beam bends may occur because of vehicle or aircraft interference . Sudden and unexpected flight control movements may occur at a very low altitude or during the landing and rollout when the autopilot attempts to follow the beam bends . Due to these reasons , it is better for the pilots to inform the ATC about their intention to autoland so that appropriate measures can be taken or if it is not possible , the same can be relayed to the approaching aircraft . The ATC should be informed about the intention to conduct an autoland . Such information should not be taken as a request for or expectation of the protection of the ILS but is merely given to enhance the possibility for ATC to inform the flight crew of any known or anticipated disturbance . Also , the ATC has to adjust the aircraft spacing if autolands are being conducted , which may affect the operations .
end question
start question
What were the typical dimensions of a WW2 US bomber formation ?
The size of the bomber formations ( bombers streams ) varied significantly depending on the number of bombers , the time , location and other things . The most common figure quoted figure is around 70 miles long and 5-6 miles wide ( for ~ 500-600 bombers ) . However , the formation 's footprint depended on a number of factors ranging from the navigator 's skill to the wind in that area . The figures vary wildly . For example , from the book <URL> : The stream of more than one thousand Eighth Air Force bombers , from one end to another was 360 miles long . ... on ... February 3 , 1945 , when the first flying fortresses reached Berlin , the last bomber was over the Zuiderzee in Holland . This extreme length is a consequence of the situation late in the war , where allied air armada roamed European skies without bothering much about the Luftwaffe . The time spent over the target , on the other hand was quite small - ... each Fortress crew would spend only between thirty and sixty seconds over the center of Berlin itself ... Note that there was no such thing as precision bombing in WWII ( except for some special cases ) , though the accuracy did improve over the war . Of course , some of this was due to the way the ' target ' was designated - anywhere 1000 ' of the aiming point was good enough . From <URL> : Conventionally the air forces designated as " the target area " a circle having a radius of 1000 feet around the aiming point of attack . While accuracy improved during the war , Survey studies show that , in the over-all , only about 20 % of the bombs aimed at precision targets fell within this target area . A peak accuracy of 70 % was reached for the month of February 1945 . Accuracy of RAF night bombing improved from ~ 20 % in 1942 to > 90 % in 1945 . Of course , the British target was comparatively larger - anything within a 3 miles radius of the aiming point was a ' hit ' .
There are two factors which limit the possible speed of piston engines : <URL> , and relative speed of moving parts , here the pistons in their cylinder barrels . If the engine runs too fast , the flame front originating from the spark plug will not have traveled far enough to have burnt most of the fuel by the time the piston moves down again . This puts a fundamental limit to the growth in power output over speed in piston engines . Also , if the relative speed between moving parts is too high , the lubrication will fail and the parts will overheat quickly . In order to run at the highest possible speed , <URL> used castor oil , which in turn motivated early aviators to wear long scarves over their mouth so their digestive system would not be compromised by sitting right in the exhaust stream of their engine . Today , lubricants have improved but still set a clear limit to the maximum speed at which a piston engine can be run . Cooling can be managed by pressurizing the cooling system and improving radiator and pump performance while inertial loads on the engine components can be dealt with by lightweight , high-strength materials . Reducing the <URL> will allow a higher speed before the ignition limit bites while reducing the <URL> will reduce piston speeds , again allowing a higher engine speed before lubrication fails . An optimimized engine will balance both so that the possible speed can be fully exploited . For the IO-360 and IO-540 , those dimensions are 5 ⅛ " and 4 ⅜ " , respectively . This places them below the <URL> and closer to the typical <URL> . I could not find reliable data on the engine speed of <URL> , which should come close to the maximum sensible engine speed at that size class . The best I could find was the 3,700 RPM of the <URL> , an engine with 5.9 " bore and 6.5 " stroke , so I would guess by using good fuel and lubrication , the Lycoming might end up somewhere between 4000 and 4500 RPM . I 'm sceptical that much useful power can be extracted at 5000 RPM and am sure that the lifetime at this speed will be measured in minutes , not hours .
In general , the pilot could be a captain , major , or lt col , the copilot probably a 1lt or captain , and the navs any of the above . For a select crew handpicked for a " fate of the world " mission , you might put 2 instructor pilots together along with two senior navs , so all 4 as lt cols would n't be impossible . On the other hand , if the crew is essentially detailed off to be " secret squirrels " for a while , it probably would n't be stacked quite that high , so maybe a mix of majors &amp; captains . That happens because it quickly becomes disruptive to take senior guys ( tactics officers , instructors , the ops officer or commander , etc ) away from their regular squadron jobs for a prolonged period . The more important the mission , the more that disruption is accepted .
The main benefit of biplanes is that the lift can be distributed across both wings . This provides more lift with less wingspan and places less load on each wing . Less load means the materials can have lower strength . This was very important in the early days of aviation , when engine power , materials , and weight were much more limited . The major downside of a biplane is aerodynamics . The wings interfere with each other , causing drag . While structural bracing between the wings can reduce weight , it also adds more drag . <URL> A biplane configuration does not make much sense for delta wings . The main drawback of a biplane is drag , but drag increases with the square of velocity , and delta wings are best in high-speed flight . <URL> , they have higher viscous drag due to the large surface area . A second delta wing will add more area , increasing both wave drag ( from the cross section ) and viscous drag ( from the surface ) . Configuration of the aircraft also becomes problematic . Most aircraft with delta wings tend to be fairly flat , allowing lower area and therefore lower drag . The closer the wings are , the more they will interfere . The further apart they are , the more structure is needed , either in a larger fuselage or in structural braces , which increases weight and drag .
These numbers are based on mixed-class configurations and use of floor space for other things . The A380 for instance can theoretically be configured with 853 " economy " seats , but no-one I know of has bought one configured that way . Typical first-business-economy configuration is 525 , and Emirates seats just 489 because its first-class section is basically staterooms , and it has showers and a bar taking up floor space ( it also has an excellent and large business class instead of using the back half of both decks for coach ) . When designing an aircraft 's seating capacity , especially for long-haul flights , total cabin weight ( passengers and cargo ) must be taken into account . The more stuff you 're hauling , the less weight allowance you have for fuel , and therefore your range is reduced . Therefore , increased room per passenger on long-haul flights is n't just for passenger comfort , it 's often a necessity to reduce total cabin weight and thus be able to max out the fuel load to get between the airports non-stop . Operators of shorter flights do n't care as much because you can pack them in like sardines and still have plenty of fuel to get them where they 're going . Therefore , dimensions of various classes of seat differ by airline , aircraft and route ( Lufthansa , for instance , operates three different A380 configurations based on the routes they run ) . The typical coach seat is between 17 and 19 inches wide ( including half the armrest ) , and has a " pitch " ( space between seats which determines the legroom and ability to recline ) of between 31 and 35 inches . For business class in three-class planes it gets a bit better ; seat width averages about 21 " and a pitch of about 38 " ( more for planes outfitted with lay-flat seats ) . First class ranges widely by aircraft type and airline ( it 's truly " first-class " in aircraft with three-class configuration ; in two-class what 's called " first " is closer to business class ) , but typically offers room to spare especially on long-hauls . Coupled with required/desired aisle widths and additional amenities that widen the seats or replace them in certain areas of the cabin , it 's fairly academic to count up how many seats you can fit aboard a particular airframe .
The Concorde was first used for observing solar eclipse in 1973 . The aircraft used was Concorde 001 , piloted by André Turcat with a scientific team of 8 people from US , UK and France . The main reason for using Concorde was that the eclipse can be observed above the clouds for far longer than on ground by literally ' chasing the moon ' . Multiple instruments were used for observing the eclipse . Institut Astrophysique de Paris used cameras to capture images of the eclipse using a telescope mounted on anti-vibration mounts , which looked out of the aircraft through one of five silica quartz windows installed in the Concorde 's roof . The equipment is shown in the image below : <URL> Source : xjubier.free.fr Queen Mary College 's InSb Far-Infrared Detector experiment consisted of an interferometer that used a tracking mirror to view the solar eclipse via a quartz window fitted into the roof of the cabin , as shown in this image . <URL> Source : jcgl.orpheusweb.co.uk The dark opening in the roof holds the quartz window of the cabin , which looks like this : <URL> Source : xjubier.free.fr This was the most important ( structural ) modification made in the Concorde ( BAC was supposed to provide Concorde 002 for this flight , but they backed out when they realized that some holes were to be made in the roof ) . Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory ( LASL , later to become Los Alamos National Laboratory ) used a specially-designed 3-inch telescope which looked out of the aircraft through a silica quartz windows installed in the Concorde 's roof . One objective of the research was to look for oscillations in the sun 's corona that occurred on a time scale of about five minutes ( the eclipse was visible for ~ 74 minutes from Concorde ) . The instruments were checked both in ground and air before the experiment . Before installation of the instruments on the aircraft , they were tested on a low speed trolley , perhaps to check its sensitivity to movement . After the ground test , they were installed on the aircraft and connected to the aircraft power system and checked . Before the actual experiment , the aircraft were flight tested at supersonic speed with the instruments on board . The Concorde was chartered for viewing Halley 's Comet in 1986 and for viewing solar eclipse in 1999 . These were chartered sightseeing flights ( using unmodified aircraft ) , not scientific ones .
For a foreigner to come to USA to learn to fly , one would need an <URL> or <URL> visa . <URL> provides some information . You can get more information on <URL> 1 . Also , you can look at this meta question : <URL> Update : It appears that you are already in the US on <URL> visa ( it was n't mentioned in the question ) , you need to go through the security clearances mentioned in <URL> ( official version on <URL> ) . AOPA has put together the related information ( <URL> ) . I also found about <URL> 1 which has outlined the process . If you search on Google about Alien Flight Student Program , you will find a ton of information . 1 : Disclaimer I am not advertising any flight school .
Formation lights are used so that aircraft can fly close formation at night . They are typically luminescent strips positioned so that an aircraft can be in the desired position ( i.e. fingertip formation ) and have references fore-aft , up-down , and near-far similar to references as used for daytime formation flying . Something along the lines of , " keep the position light just below the formation light ( strip ) under the cockpit and the aft fuselage light ( strip ) just touching the wing hardpoint , and you 're in the right position . If the position light goes farther below the strip , you 're getting high ; if the hardpoint is sliding back into the aft light you 're getting close , etc. " Obviously these references are very specific to each individual aircraft . You can see the formation lights in this picture of an F-14 ; the dots are actual position lights , while the strips are the formation lights . <URL> <URL> As to why only military aircraft have them ... how often have you seen or heard of civil aircraft flying formation at night ? Yeah , me neither . There are very , very few non-military reasons for formation flight , and essentially none that require it to be done at night .
The best research on this is done with real crews &amp; expensive simulators , and I think their results are exactly the proposition you 're looking at , namely that the callout " V1 " needs to be said something like a second or two before the actual latest-point-of-first-action to reject the takeoff . The reason that we ca n't just say , how long does it take me to respond to the other pilot 's callout routinely is , it 's a different world between the routine stuff and the abort decision close to V1 . As an example , if I 'm flying an approach , I know when the callout 100 feet above minimums is coming . If I 'm not badly tunnel-vision on some isolated part of my scan ( very , very rare when you 're at that point in an approach ... not impossible but quite rare ) , I can see the altimeter unwinding toward the minimums bug , and so when the other pilot makes the callout , I 'm ready to reply " going outside . " And I know that a few moments after that , he 's going to call out " minimums " and I have my next callout to make . No surprises , and if you measured how promptly I respond to his callouts , you 'll probably get results showing that I 'm pretty prompt . Compare that with the one takeoff in thousands where things are getting weird close to V1 , and I 'm actually processing the " is this actually worth stopping for now that we 're high speed " decision . I 've never had to do that in the actual aircraft , but talking to guys who have , there is some very real time compression -- events happen fast . On a normal takeoff , I 'm almost always aware of exactly when the " V1 " callout is coming . But if it is " that dark &amp; stormy night " and I 'm trying to sort out the difference between fluxing indication , minor burp , or beginning of an engine failure , that will be the time when the " V1 " call WILL catch me by surprise , and how quickly I react to it &amp; remove my hand from the throttles may not correlate to how quickly I 've taken it off during the last 999 takeoffs . On a normal takeoff , my habit is a fairly spring-loaded motion where my hand comes up and away from the throttles immediately at the " V1 " call , so that if we get the proverbial big bang , lotsa yaw , and the fire bell right after the callout , I 'd be able to catch myself &amp; not go reaching back toward the throttles to initiate an abort-after-V1 . So on those days , you might could get away with pushing the callout closer in time to the latest-first-action-to-stop point . But not every day is going to be like that , so the Boeing procedures build in the greater level of reaction time . Because taking the aircraft flying even when you had another second or two that you could have stopped it , is generally ( looking at the historical track record of takeoffs rejected &amp; takeoffs continued ) less dangerous than stopping the aircraft a couple of seconds after you should n't have . References : <URL> <URL> This has some good time numbers for you
ICAO Class F airspace is a bit of an odd duck ( and the US FAA is apparently not the only agency that thinks so - from a quick check on <URL> it seems more jurisdictions ignore class F than implement it . They only mention Class F as being in use in Germany and the UK ) . From a functional/regulatory standpoint Class F is a sort of hybrid between " Class E " controlled airspace and " Class G " ( fully ) uncontrolled airspace : Class F airspace is designated as " uncontrolled " , but you can get ATC clearances in Class F airspace just like in controlled airspace . The catch is they 're " advisory only " ( so you do n't have to comply with them , and all the weight is on the pilot 's shoulders ) . Similarly ATC will provide separation services to IFR flights in Class F airspace , but they do so " where possible " , which means they might tell you they ca n't provide that service and you 're on your own with see-and-avoid . The general use case for Class F airspace seems to be allowing IFR flights to operate in " uncontrolled airspace " . As a US pilot ( and thus having no experience with Class F Airspace ) , it sounds like the services provided in Class F airspace are effectively the equivalent of <URL> : Controllers can give you advisories and make suggestions , but all responsibility is ultimately still on the pilot 's shoulders , and you can politely tell the controller to get stuffed if you do n't like their suggestions ( without needing to declare an emergency to vest yourself with that authority ) . In the US we already have the Flight Following system and culture set up for VFR folks ( and generally speaking it 's available nationwide , irrespective of airspace class , as long as the controller can get you on radar and is n't overworked ) . We also have a pretty robust Class E airspace nationwide . Because of this the FAA probably sees no need to designate specific " Class F " regions where IFR flights can get the equivalent of " Flight Following " : If you 're VFR you can usually get flight following if you want it , and if you 're IFR you should have no trouble staying in controlled airspace ( Class A , B , C , D , or E ) for your entire route of flight .
In common parlance , " General Aviation " typically means " not-airline " . In the <URL> , the FAA now defines General Aviation as : That portion of civil aviation that does not include scheduled or unscheduled air carriers or commercial space operations . and it gives the ICAO definition : All civil aviation operations other than scheduled air services and nonscheduled air transport operations for remuneration or hire . Both these definitions are closely tied to commercial operations , and they go out of their way to point out that non-scheduled air carriers are NOT general aviation . Note that " civil aviation " would mean " not military " . Historically the term has been very colloquial , and to some extent you will still find different definitions from everyone . However , IMHO these are the most clear definitions available .
Yes . <URL> covers this ( my emphasis ) : ( b ) Required pilot certificate for operating a foreign-registered aircraft within the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of foreign registry within the United States , unless -- ( 1 ) That person 's pilot certificate or document issued under § 61.29 ( e ) is in that person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate ; and ( 2 ) Has been issued in accordance with this part , or has been issued or validated by the country in which the aircraft is registered . So a US license ( i.e. one issued under part 61 ) is allowed as an alternative to a foreign license for operating the foreign aircraft . The other country could have rules on this too , but I have no idea if they would be enforceable ( obviously , one country 's laws are usually not valid in another one ) .
I reread your question several times , and will attempt to answer . Hopefully I understand you correctly . First , for largest speed to smallest , I would order descent > cruise > climb . The way to think of it is that during a climb , you are building potential energy ( altitude ) . When that energy plateaus at your cruise altitude , you stop investing in potential energy , and maximize your kinetic energy ( cruise speed ) . During descent , there is energy to bleed , because you are lowering your potential energy ( altitude ) and converting it to kinetic energy ( descent speed ) . The gross assumption is that your UAV power setting remains about the same during all three phases of flight . In this example , the lift is greatest during the climb , when you are investing in potential energy , and not using as much kinetic energy . The descent would have the lowest lift , because you are willing to trade potential energy for kinetic energy , and the altitude decreases and the speed increases . Forget my original comment , I do n't think I understood your question at that time .
The distribution of how pilots get to the majors is bimodal . If you can get a military pilot slot and give 4-10 years to the USAF , you can then get an FAA ATP and start interviewing at whatever majors are hiring and have your ex-mil buddies on the hiring board . Great way to get in at FedEx or UPS . This costs a few grand for your ATP but that 's about it . If you ca n't get a military slot , getting up to the point you can instruct from nothing can vary wildly in cost . The accelerated flight training programs will do this for around $ 70,000 . Next you instruct until you hit 135 mins and do either that or instructing . At this point you should n't be paying for time anymore . When you get on at a regional you 'll sit right seat for a few to many years then you 'll upgrade . After about 1.5-2 years in the left seat you 'll have the bare minimums to apply at a major .
The pavement requires frequent renewal of the top surface . The frequency depends on the type of pavement and on the weather . Asphalt for instance suffers a lot of damage when it snows and becomes less viscous when it is very hot , <URL> . The main issue with repairing a runway on a major airport like JFK or O'Hare is doing so with little to no impact on traffic . Resurfacing an entire runway can take a long time . Therefore , rather than closing the runway for days at a time , airports try to do as many short maintenance operations as possible at night . Some operations can not be done in a single night but can be divided into several perfectly timed tasks , that can be done between 11 PM and 5 AM . Some operations can not be divided into such small tasks and require that the airport closes for a day or more . The French airport Orly ( ORY ) for instance has one slab of concrete replaced every night on the runway . This way , the strip can be renewed every other year on average , without disturbing traffic . ( I saw a video on this subject once , but ca n't seem to find it again . ) The results of each runway inspection are compared with the results of the previous runway inspection . Maintenance programs are revised based on the rate of deterioration of the runway . The FAA has <URL> to help airport operators plan these maintenance operations . But damage done by huge planes is only one of the many things that needs to be taken care of on a regular basis . Moreover , aircraft manufacturers try to design landing gear that reduces the impact of the aircraft on the runway as much as possible ( note that airports can charge higher landing fees for aircraft that do more damage to the runway , so airlines want airplanes that do n't damage the runway ) . The most common maintenance operations are ( not in any order , and indicated frequencies are only a rule of thumb , as these will change from one airport to another ) : Removing rubber . This is an important one . When taking off or landing , aircraft often skid for a brief moment and leave rubber on the runway . This greatly reduces the adherence of the runway , which has a negative impact on stopping distances . This is usually done with high pressure water . Cleaning the approach light systems and other visual aids . These get dirty with rubber , tartar , dirt ... This operation can be done for instance with a mix of water and sodium bicarbonate , or <URL> . Checking the quality of the approach light systems and other visual aids . Often , a truck with optometric sensors drives down the runway and measures the luminosity . Sometimes the lights need to be replaced . Airports usually have spares available for every type of light that is used on the runway . Paint and markings somtimes have to be redone . <URL> . Trucks are equipped with all kinds of sensors and go up and down the runway . The measures are used to make a map of the condition of the runway . Sometimes , the runway is divided into sub-sections and a different section will be evaluated every month or every other month , so that each section is inspected twice a year . Checking for foreign objects on the runway . On all the airports I visited , this is done by the airport firetruck several times a day . Every few months , they sweep the runway to prevent grass , dirt , pebbles , ... from accumulating . Repairing cracks and resealing joints on the runway . This is to prevent water infiltrations that have long-term catastrophic consequences . A visual inspection of the runway is performed daily to look for cracks . Cutting the grass around the runway and on the airfield . The grass has to be kept 2 to 4 inches high around the runway . This reduces the amount of debris that can be blown onto the runway . This also reduces the number of birds and other animals living close to the runway ( because nobody wants birds to be ingested by an engine , or a squirrel to be run over ) . Keeping all water evacuation paths clear . No water can be left to build up on the runway , since this would increase stopping distance for aircraft , and may freeze . There also are seasonal operations , such as de-icing the runway or removing snow .
As Ron Beyer <URL> , it 's more of a flat ellipsoid ( egg ) , not a cone . <URL> <URL> <URL> shows that image : <URL> From the <URL> , the tolerances are : <URL> <URL> <URL> Minor axis being parallel to approach : <URL>
According to <URL> one of the requirements for flying a model aircraft is : Keep the aircraft within visual line of sight at all times If you are wearing a VR headset , then your visual line of sight stops at the headset screen . Note that the above linked page lists the " visual line of sight " as a safety guideline . However , according to <URL> , an aircraft is not considered a " model aircraft " unless it is : ( 2 ) flown within visual line of sight of the person operating the aircraft None of the above restricts you from flying with a friend where one of you is wearing the VR headset and the other is piloting the aircraft .
In case of air to air refueling , the ' receiver ' ( the aircraft being refueled ) should be careful about not getting into the wake of the tanker , which is usually much larger and heavy . For example , the NATO air-to-air refueling manual , <URL> : The area of extreme turbulence directly behind and slightly to the right of the tanker should be avoided . Blade stall and uncontrolled settling may be encountered if this area is entered . The receiving plane is usually flown below the wake turbulence of the tanker , in both the hose &amp; drogue and flying boom methods . Usually , the receiver is directly behind and around 10 ' below the tanker . For example , see <URL> In addition to turbulence , in case of close formation flying , there are other things to contend with , as explained in <URL> : In addition to the trailing air vortices the receiving aircraft must contend with downwash of airﬂow from the tanker . The affected local airﬂow typically exhibits a nose-down pitching moment on the receiver which , in turn , affects its speed and approach rate . Not only the receiver , the tanker should also be careful about flow disturbances . ... mostly between large transport aircraft , the lead aircraft experiences a change in its airﬂow caused by the bow wave , or upwash , from the receiver . This increases the angle of attack around the tanker 's tail which also results in a pitch-down motion . Under-running the tanker is particularly dangerous since the downwash effect will dissipate , resulting in the receiver pitching up . At the same time a tanker on altitude hold may instigate a nose-down pitch due to a perceived climb due to the decrease in pressure in the surrounding air , potentially leading to collision . The figure below shows some regions where disturbances would be encountered aft of a tanker . <URL> Typical spanwise airﬂow disturbances from a trailing tanker wake. ; image from <URL> by Peter . R. Thomas et . al. . In addition , the trailing aircraft should also be careful about the jet exhaust .
An airway ( Victor or otherwise ) is just a standard route for aircraft to fly on in the national airspace system - for all practical purposes they are literally highways in the sky ( with the lanes being stacked vertically rather than horizontally ) . This is part of the paradoxical logic of how ATC provides separation services for IFR aircraft : " You have to put them together to keep them apart . " -- In an environment with no radar , or in crowded airspace , having everyone following a standard routing ensures that you know what each plane is going to do . If you have 10 aircraft all flying along an airway and each separated by altitude or time you know they wo n't hit each other We define the attributes ( width , minimum altitude , etc. ) of a victor airway mainly for purposes of obstacle clearance : A VOR has a specific degree of precision in its measurement , and if we assume the maximum distance from the VOR ( the widest degree of arc ) and the maximum allowable " slop " in the VOR receiver/indicator in the aircraft that means an aircraft that thinks it 's " on the airway " will be somewhere within a given width around the defining radial : For Victor airways that width is 8 nautical miles - 4NM on either side of the centerline radial - or 4.5 degrees if the VORs are more than 102 nautical miles apart . Those numbers may sound like they 're arbitrary , but they are n't : If the VORs are exactly 102 nautical miles apart then the width of the airway at the 51 nautical mile midpoint between the two VORs is - you guessed it - 4 nautical miles . The further apart the VORs are the wider the center of the corridor becomes , accounting for the fact that a degree of arc gets wider as you get further from the VOR . Airways are an IFR construct so if we continue on the assumption that the plane is in the clouds and the pilot ca n't see anything then within the airway corridor the aircraft needs to be clear of any obstacles ( towers , trees , etc. ) , and of course it needs to be able to receive the VORs that define the airway . The combination of those factors and a few others will determine the minimum altitude at which a given airway can be used . Note that much like ground highways airways are not always the most direct or convenient way to fly from one location to another . In particular the Victor airways are defined by VOR radials ( or the intersections of such radials ) , but they 're not always a straight line between two VORs . As an example , take a look at <URL> : The airway I picked ( V451 ) will take me from Groton VOR ( GON ) to La Guardia VOR ( LGA ) , but it bends in three places on this route : CREAM , KEYED , and NESSI ( not labeled on the sectional , but its the bend southeast of Bridgeport ) . A straight line between the two VORs would be the 265 radial from Groton direct to La Guardia : A much shorter distance , but not a " standard " airway routing .
Emergency descent ( like during a decompression event where you need to get from cruise to 10k ft ASAP to make sure the people in the back survive ) should n't make a nice curve . It only wastes time you do n't really have . Normal operation means the pilot activates the autopilot during cruise which will fly the programmed course set by the pilot . It will stay follow that course ( or put itself in a holding pattern on the final fix ) until it runs out of fuel or the pilot intervenes when it is cleared for descent . This happened with <URL> ; both pilots were incapacitated shortly after ascent and the plane put itself in a hold and crashed when it ran out of fuel after more than an hour . A plane where there is nothing controlling the altitude ( when control is lost due to loss of hydraulics for example ) will follow a <URL> . That is a series of dives and climbs as the elevators gain and lose bite on the air with speed .
end question
start question
How do you choose a feature to line up on when approaching to land ?
Probably the best thing to do is to start looking for your reference as you start to lose the runway under your nose . Hopefully at that point you 'll be low enough to identify something that will stand out from the crowd all the way down to the ground . You may also favor choosing something closer in from the horizon at 2000AGL , to ensure you do n't lose it behind the horizon as you descend . For me , flying out of Addison , it 's pretty easy ; the runway faces downtown Addison about 3 miles south-southeast ( a row of corporate headquarters buildings along the Dallas North Tollway ) which is far enough out to line up on but close enough and tall enough you 'll see it right up until you pass the numbers . Flying into a more rural strip , you might have more trouble identifying a good reference that you can keep in sight as you descend . Some potential issues with this general strategy : Your reference point will lie well beyond the runway by design . Do n't fixate on it ; that will cause you to subconsciously stay higher than your intended glide path as you fly toward your reference , potentially overshooting the runway . Your reference is a single point . That point and your aircraft make a line , which you want to be colinear with the runway . But , your aircraft is a moving point , so it 's not necessarily true that you 'll be in line with the runway even if your nose is on the reference point . Instead of one reference point , I 'd pick two ( even if they 're not perfectly in line ) and focus on keeping both reference points steady relative to each other . If you ca n't see the runway , you may not be able to see surrounding visual aids like the glide slope indicators , which are just as important as staying lined up . Addison 's PAPI lights are off to the right when approaching runway 15 , which is stupid as my instructor can see them perfectly while I 'm blind unless I nose down every few seconds to keep track ( not an option without flaps ) . While I would n't rely on it completely in VMC , if you have a VOR receiver aboard and the runway has an instrument approach , you can tune into the ILS frequency and use the " cross " alongside visual references to manage your approach during the time the runway is hidden from view . The ILS system is pretty well-standardized , while the visual references at each airport are not , so if you become accustomed to an ILS-augmented visual landing , the basic procedure can be applied to any airport . The reasons I would n't rely totally on it include : You 're not instrument-rated ( unless you are ) so flying with your head in the gauges can easily kill you . Glance at it to ensure you 're where you think you are , but rely on your visual references whenever you can . You 're not flying a pure instrument approach under IFR , so you still have to " see and avoid " even if you have tower staff spacing traffic around you ( unless you ask for a " pop-up " instrument approach , effectively switching from VFR to IFR ) . ILS availability/accuracy is not guaranteed in daytime VMC because the ILS critical areas are not required to be protected during these times . If you tell the tower what you 're doing , they can advise ground traffic to use the ILS holds , but there may already be traffic in an ILS critical area and if so there 's little the tower can do . ILS may contradict visual indicators to varying degrees , because the ILS glideslope is projected from a different point along the runway than the PAPI/VASI array . You therefore should n't expect the ILS cross to be perfectly centered along the same path that gives you two white PAPI lights . Radio-based ILS is n't available at every airstrip . In such cases you simply must fly a purely visual approach , and having relied on ILS to give you the proper glide slope instead of developing your sight picture will prove to be a crutch in such situations .
Even if ATC ca n't legally give you permission to enter prohibited airspace ( they sometimes can for restricted airspace by the way ) , if you declare an emergency they will still coordinate with the controlling agency which will help to keep you safe . Squawk 7700 , fly as high as possible , turn on all your lights , broadcast your intentions on 121.5 if you are n't talking to ATC , and do n't make any sudden dives toward the ground/buildings , etc. . This will all help to show that you are n't trying to " sneak in under the radar " and can only improve your situation . Do n't be surprised if you get intercepted though , and make sure that you talk to them on 121.5 if you do . Know your <URL> and follow them exactly . They will most likely try to help you as much as possible . You will still face a lot of questions and probably even certificate action when you get on the ground though because , as you said , poor planning is no excuse ... Also , this applies in the US . Some other countries ( possibly Cuba , Iran , etc. ) tend to be far more sensitive to issues like this and may " shoot first and ask questions later " .
Not only some , but in fact most GA propeller-driven aircraft have propellers that extend below the bottom of the fuselage . ( The only exception that quickly comes to mind is the <URL> ; I 'm sure there are plenty of others . ) Note that the aircraft will have some secondary method of gear extension , such as gravity drop , a manual crank , or a blow-down bottle . But there are still times where the gear can not be extended and locked . In this situation , you 've got one emergency . Do n't make it two emergencies by shutting down your engine . There 's an aphorism - " If the gear fails , the insurance company just bought the airplane . " 1 Without gear , you 're going to do some damage : scraped belly , probably tearing off some antennas . The aircraft will already require maintenance ; the extra time and cost of an engine teardown is insignificant compared to the increased risk from a higher workload and a landing that the pilot may not have ever practiced before . ( The approach with gear up and engine out will be different than that with gear down and engine at idle in a simulated engine failure . ) Do n't risk your life to save the insurance company money . Additionally , just stopping the engine is n't sufficient to prevent a teardown . You must also rotate the prop so that it 's horizontal , which requires slowing substantially as you pull the mixture to stop it from windmilling , and then using the starter to move the prop. 2 You 'd need to prevent any substantial contact between the propeller and runway , as <URL> on propstrikes that require inspection and repair ( Continental 's is similar ) includes the situation of Any incident , whether or not the engine is operating , where repair of the propeller is necessary After all of that , there are some best practices : Declare an emergency . ATC will help you , have equipment ready on the ground , and clear traffic around you - but they need to know about it first . Use your checklist . An airplane with retractable gear will have an entry for gear failure ; follow it . In particular , you 'll shut down the electrical system before landing , and probably brace open a door for exit . Land on a paved surface . Dirt or grass may seem softer , but they are n't as smooth . According to <URL> , " Statistics suggest that putting the airplane on the asphalt is likely to cause less damage to you and your airplane than putting it on the grass . " ( 1 ) I 've also heard " The insurance company buys the aircraft when you take off ; when you land safely , you buy it back . " ( 2 ) Or you could do it in the flare - a suggestion so dangerous I include it only for completeness .
The fuel consumption or fuel burn rate is dependent on the aircraft type , size , engine configuration , cruise altitude , temperature , thrust setting and other factors . In general : The larger the aircraft , the less economic do short flights become due to weight/size and fuel burn on takeoff/climb . Here are some values I found for the CRJ2 , the source may not be entire citable : Approximate total burn pounds / hour Taxi : 700 ( Both engines and APU ) Takeoff : 6000-7000 ( depending on temperature , elevation , reduced/full thrust , etc ) Climb : 6000-3500 ( reducing as as altitude increases ) Cruise : 2500-3000 ( depending on altitude/weight/etc ... subtract 500 for long range , add 500 for high speed ) Holding : 1800-2400 ( depending on altitude/speed ) Normal descent : 1500 Idle descent : 600 Approach : 2000 ( fully configured ) ( Source : <URL> - Author : Flyf15 ) You can also read the following related questions to understand how altitude affects fuel efficiency : <URL> <URL>
Just toe brakes . Typically the instruction between line-up-and-wait and clearing for takeoff is very short , maybe ten seconds . In simpler aircraft , the parking brake just " pinches " or closes off the brake fluid line to keep the wheel brakes held , but in the fly-by-wire airliners , the parking brake just clamps the normal wheel brakes as if the toe brakes were held .
Every CFI I have ever flown with has a different procedure for when to descend . Its annoying . Think of it as descending to the runway when you are in a position to land . If you are not following another aircraft , then you can begin your descent abeam the threshold . If you are following another aircraft , then you should wait to descend until you are in a position to land as # 2 , which could be after you 've already turned base or ( long ) final .
It 's a bad idea to give false information to a controller as a matter of practice . Instead of calling yourself a student when you 're not , it would be better to say you 're unfamiliar with the area or that your English is not perfect . Controllers are almost always accommodating to less-than-proficient pilots and will usually make allowances whenever time and traffic permits . If your English is not good , be sure and use simple , direct phraseology . Read the AIM to become familiar with the common phrases used with ATC . Even something as simple as hearing " radar identified " in Canada instead of the usual U.S. phrase " radar contact " has caused many a native English speaker to reply " say again ? "
The first and perhaps most important thing to do is NOT turn around . Generally speaking you wo n't have the airspeed/altitude to make a full 180 and return to the field . While it can be done , it 's advised to continue forward and put the plane down as you would in any emergency . Trim for best glide and pick a landing spot ( limited options in this case ) . In some cases with small plane/long runway situations you will be able to execute something like a short field landing with the remaining runway but that is very situationally dependent . When I flew out of KPNE in a Warrior 24 was 7000ft ; if you lost an engine at rotation you had plenty of runway . At DYL where I fly now that 's not really the case . Every airport is different but a good deal of the airports I have flown out of recently have had long fields at either end of the runway giving maybe an extra 1000 ft or so . Airports in populated areas may have roads you can touch down on . You should always consult the POH of the specific aircraft in this case for proper emergency procedures . Specifically to the 152 point , the take off distance is around 1400 ft. full loaded if memory serves . Unless you are training on 2000 ft strips you should have no problem getting the plane back down with remaining runway at all but the shortest of fields . If you are only 10ft up you should be able to put the plane down fast , albeit a bit hard , but fast none the less . For what it 's worth <URL> . Once you have touched down it would be advised to retract your flaps , this will increase the load on the gear ( by reducing your wings ' effectiveness ) and increase brake effectiveness . You should take care to not lock the brakes as well . Side Story : This happened to a buddy of mine in his Archer a bunch of years back ( I 'll try to find the incident report ) . The plane was fresh out of annual and something was not hooked up correctly and shook loose on take off causing the engine to cut out around 100ft or so . There was a corn field dead ahead and he was able to put the plane down smoothly . Thankfully no one was hurt and he simply owed the farmer for the corn he took out on landing & hellip ; .
I go through the SAFETY checklist with all my passengers . <URL> Seat Belts - This is where they are and how to use them . Air Vents - Here are the air vents and how to use them Fire - In case of a fire here is the location of the fire extinguisher and this is how you use it . PASS method . Exits , Emergencies and Equipment - Here are the exits on the airplane and here is how to open the door . Know that you are in good hands and that I have been well trained to land safely under most situations . If for some reason an emergency occurs in flight follow my directions . If we need to land off the airport , I will ask you to pop open the door just before landing to ensure we can exit the airplane safely . Here is any safety equipment that you may want to use on this flight . i.e. supplemental oxygen . Traffic and talking - Please point out an traffic that you see and I will do the same . Please no talking while I am on the radio . Once we start taxiing to the runway please remain quiet til we are far enough away from the airport . I will let you know when it is safe to talk again . When we come in to land , I will ask that you remain quiet , unless an emergency situation occurs , till after the landing is complete and we are taxiing back to parking . Your questions - Do you have any questions ? Alright , lets go have some fun ! <URL>
Loadsheets have a section called ' <URL> . As the name implies , pilots can record last minute changes here . If the changes are minimal , there is no need to recalculate the mass and balance , and trim settings . What constitutes ' minimal ' depends on many things , principally limits set by the operator or manufacturer . I ca n't verify this but think 400kg would fall within these limits , unless the aircraft was already at its performance limits .
1 : Do pilots eat during flight or they wait until they are back on the ground ? As pilots happen to be humans , their metabolism works in a similar fashion as yours or mine work . So they eat when they are hungry . On a long flight , they can eat during the flight , but on short flights ( e.g. 30 minutes - 2 hours ) , they might not get enough free time to have a meal . On busy days , pilots may not get enough time to have proper meals , so they try to eat small meals containing more nutrition . This is detailed in an article on <URL> . They also avoid heavy meals before a flight . 2 : Do they get the same food that is served to the passengers or do they bring their own meal ? Most of the time , food served to the passengers is the same which is served to the pilots , although they do n't <URL> . An airline <URL> that : ... the pilot gets the first class meal and the copilot the business class meal .
Pilots do encounter UFOs all the time . I just want to emphasize that UFO means " Unidentified Flying Object " - something which is flying , and which the pilot can not identify . It does not mean an alien craft . The guidelines for pilots are as follows ( <URL> ) : 7-6-4 . Unidentified Flying Object ( UFO ) Reports a. Persons wanting to report UFO/unexplained phenomena activity should contact a UFO/unexplained phenomena reporting data collection center , such as Bigelow Aerospace Advanced Space Studies ( BAASS ) ( voice : 1-877-979-7444 or e-mail : Reporting@baass.org ) , the National UFO Reporting Center , etc. . b . If concern is expressed that life or property might be endangered , report the activity to the local law enforcement department . Air traffic controllers have the following guidance under <URL> : 9-8-1 . GENERAL a. Persons wanting to report UFO/unexplained phenomena activity should contact a UFO / unexplained phenomena reporting data collection center , such the National UFO Reporting Center , etc. . b . If concern is expressed that life or property might be endangered , report the activity to the local law enforcement department . The question " Was it of the E.T. kind " is beyond the scope of this site . This subject is , let 's just say , suitably covered by other sites on the Internet at large . One notable example of a UFO report is the <URL> . For other examples , a Google search for " <URL> " offers some decent results . " <URL> " even links to some recordings of pilot UFO reports to ATC . Some objects commonly reported ( genuinely ) as UFOs are spacecraft , fast or high-flying military aircraft like the U-2 or the SR-71 when it was in service , rocket launches , weather balloons , kites , errant helium balloons from kids ' birthday parties , flocks of birds , con trails , and lightning storms . Any of these and more can easily look , under the right circumstances , to a pilot like a " UFO . " The closest experience I 've had in my flying history to a " UFO " happened at night , during a landing approach in the midwest U.S. I was on a downwind leg when a very bright light appeared above me in the center of the windscreen , and rapidly moved downward toward the horizon . It scared me half to death ; my instinctual thought was that it was the landing light of another plane descending on top of me . It turned out to be a meteorite . It only took me a second or two to figure it out , but boy did it get my adrenaline up ! There was no need to report it though . Culturally , pilots are generally apprehensive about reporting UFOs , out of fear of sounding like a lunatic or unhinged conspiracy theorist and being laughed at . Nonetheless , reports are not uncommon .
For the US , this is covered in <URL> , or in a more human-interpretable way from an <URL> . When are you required to use your aircraft registration By default unless you have a callsign Can anyone use whatever call sign they want or is it limited to airlines only ? What you use must be registered . For international flights if you fly frequently enough you can get a 3 letter ICAO designator ( SWA , DAL , UAL , etc. ) There are national callsigns which are detailed in that letter , and local callsigns which may apply only to your tower , TRACON , or center depending on who you talk to and what their own rules for issuing a letter of agreement to use it are .
Landing at a US military base is n't all that hard ( I 've landed at Ft. Drum before ) , you just have to get prior permission ( PPR ) ( submitted at least 30 days in advance and confirmed within 24 hours according to 32 CFR 855.8 ) , and need to have a " good reason " ( as determined by them ) . <URL> ( which is quite long ) includes the purposes that are normally allowed . You will be required to submit the following forms to the base commander ( See the A/FD ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> contains the regulations pertaining to US Air Force airfields ( and the rules are similar for each branch ) . 855.1 - Policy includes : ( 1 ) Normally , landing permits will be issued only for civil aircraft operating in support of official Government business . Other types of use may be authorized if justified by exceptional circumstances . Access will be granted on an equitable basis . ... ( 3 ) Any aircraft operator with an inflight emergency may land at any Air Force airfield without prior authorization . An inflight emergency is defined as a situation that makes continued flight hazardous . 855.5 - Responsibilities and authorities . includes : ( 6 ) Will not authorize use of Air Force airfields : ( i ) In competition with civil airports by providing services or facilities that are already available in the private sector . Note : Use to conduct business with or for the US Government is not considered as competition with civil airports . ( ii ) Solely for the convenience of passengers or aircraft operator . ( iii ) Solely for transient aircraft servicing . ( iv ) By civil aircraft that do not meet US Department of Transportation operating and airworthiness standards . ( v ) That selectively promotes , benefits , or favors a specific commercial venture unless equitable consideration is available to all potential users in like circumstances . ( vi ) For unsolicited proposals in procuring Government business or contracts . ( vii ) Solely for customs-handling purposes . ( viii ) When the air traffic control tower and base operations are closed or when a runway is restricted from use by all aircraft .
The protected area for circling approaches is based on distance from the runway ( s ) , and the size of that area ( and your approach MDA ) depends upon your aircraft 's VREF or 1.3 & times ; VSO -- or , if higher , your actual IAS approach speed . Here 's the graphic the FAA uses to demonstrate this , along with the old protected area radii : New circling minumums For approaches that use the new criteria , both Aeronav and Jeppesen charts show an inverted " C " in the circling minimums section of the approach plate . This signifies that the approach uses the new , altitude-dependent protected areas . Those areas are defined in the same way as before , but with different radii . Aeronav ( NACO ) format : Jeppesen format : As far as figuring out how large your protected area is in flight , you 'll have to use the inverted " C " as a cue to look up the table that will be included in the appendices of the approach plates : <URL> The NBAA has <URL> , but this basically sums it up . The update leaves us with what is honestly a less-than-desirable system . Looking up a table to brief your circling radius in flight ( or even prior to your flight ) is certainly a lot less useful than simply printing the protected area radius on the minimums section . It 's worth noting that feature <URL> ( p. 4 ) when the change was being discussed .
Atmospheric conditions do not cause aircraft to break up in flight . Improper aircraft handling in response to bad weather can cause an aircraft to be overstressed and then breakup . So can improper handling due to disorientation .
Say you are flying on a route that requires an even level , but you would like an odd level such as FL350 . The phraseology to use would be Request FL350 The rest is up to ATC . Depending on local agreements and the current situation , we may be able to grant you the level right away , maybe we need to pick up the phone and talk to downstream sectors or maybe we ca n't offer the level at all . In any case , there is no harm in asking . Regarding the part of your question that mentions weather , if you are requesting a level change because of extreme weather ( such as moderate/severe turbulence or icing ) , state so in your request . We will then handle your request with higher priority , and you are more likely to get the different level . Request FL350 due to moderate icing
Thankfully , I never had to make this choice . In my training I learned to stay in the plane and flare at the height of the treetops , then let the plane sink into the branches and have them stop and suspend the aircraft . The fuselage is quite effective as a protective shell , and up on top the branches are thin and flexible . Use the parachute only to hoist yourself down from the stricken plane , if necessary . <URL> Two-seater after landing in trees at Boberg glider port ( picture <URL> )
GdD brings up some good points but that really depends on what you mean by " home simulator " and it depends on the airplane . There are some people that <URL> and built simulators that are fairly close to real and provide a solid learning platform not only for the flying but the actual physical operation of the controls . You can fairly easily build a <URL> that has all the controls and instruments you would see in a real plane and even in emergency situations you will see real warning lights in your sim and be able to mitigate it as you would in a real plane ( nothing is stopping you from wiring in a smoke machine either ) . As for the flight dynamics they get more real as time goes on and computers get better and better . <URL> and simulate the <URL> I fly in real life which I find to be pretty close to the real thing from a flight dynamics/response stand point . My simulator did a great deal for my cross wind proficiency when I was training . I cant say I learned to fly in the sim but I did a great deal of honing of my skills in my home sim . The sim is a tool not a replacement If you understand this you will better be able to realize that the sim can provide you a great deal of proficiency and can suffice for training in some ( not all ) cases . Even the <URL> . The FAA even considers <URL> Unless you have a full motion sim at home , the sim wont provide you with the feeling of flying which is very hard to replicate . It wont disorient you in IMC by having G-Forces cause your vestibular sense to distrust the instruments . It wont physically throw you around on a bad cross wind landing with wind sheer causing your knee to bump the yoke . It wont shake you to the point you drop your iPad while briefing an approach plate . It wont spin you until your lunch decides it wants to be elsewhere . These are the kinds of experiences you may only find in a real plane ... One last thing to consider as well is some what of the reverse case . Aircraft cockpits are actually getting closer to computer based units as time moves on . Its common to see keyboards in airbus cockpits and many of <URL> . As we move into a more automated era some switches have even been lost to digital control units . Even the flight controls them selves have moved into the modern age with <URL> .
Technically yes . But I am unaware of any attempt to do this with airliners . But there were <URL> in the past which used a big airplane or a <URL> as a mother ship , which took fighters with it for air defense . The <URL> was involved in several such designs . In all cases the docking was made from below , because this gave the fighter pilot the best field of view and reduced the risk of a tail strike . While the fighter in the picture above is a Republic F-84 , McDonnell even designed one specifically for the purpose of being carried around by a bomber , the <URL> . It used a rather complicated trapeze for docking and was then pulled up into the fuselage , as the picture with a B-29 below shows . Your design proposal with the simple platform on top of the fuselage would carry a high risk of a tail strike if anything goes wrong , so it is unlikely that this will ever be tried for real . But when you change the airliner to a AN-225 , the idea looks not totally impossible . The <URL> with a mothership as early as the 1930s . The picture below shows a TB-3 docking with a I-Z fighter , the first pair of aircraft in history to dock in flight . The main reason for docking was the much smaller range of fighters . Today , air refuelling takes care of this deficit , so it is unlikely that anyone will see a benefit strong enough to justify the expense of modifying two aircraft and the risk incurred in the docking process .
end question
