start question
How do I build a charging station for 12 iPads ?
<URL> offers a multi-charge/sync setup now , and apparently <URL> has one in the works . If you 're looking to build your own , the Datamation unit uses a <URL> with 16 USB ports for charging and syncing . You could integrate it into your own solution . You could also just get a 12 + port USB charger , however charging and syncing may take significantly longer this way . The Datamation site has some <URL> that support this .
The 1st sort column is sorted by when the file was added to the playlist . If you can drag them into the playlist in the order you want ... you are set
There 's a plugin for Safari called Glims that lets you add different search engines ( including Wikipedia ) to the search bar among other tweaks . You can read about and download it <URL> . <URL> a post on someone 's blog that details how to install it and set your search engines to what you want . Hope that helps !
You get two distinct , functioning displays unless you choose to mirror . Same with AirPlay . From <URL> : Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution [ 2304 by 1440 ] on the built-in display and up to 3840 by 2160 pixels on an external display , both at millions of colors
Just put the application in the home of the user . You could create folders like this for every user : and put the application ( s ) there .
If you connect 18 V to the power/ground pins , your Mac will be powered off the 12 V battery , but it wo n't charge : <URL> To charge , the laptop needs to identify the charger by communicating over the signal pin in the middle . <URL> Solution : Sacrifice an apple charger by cutting the cable and connecting the correct pins to your DC/DC converter . I recommend using the 45 W ones so your DC power supply does n't have to be very big .
If the song/sound you want to use is n't already in your iTunes library , add it to your iTunes library first . If you want to use just a part of the song/sound , right click it , select " Get Info " , then " Options " tab , and enter a start and stop time there . Remember , ringtones ca n't be over 40 seconds ! On the File menu , select " Convert " > " Create AAC Version " . If you do n't have this option , go to Edit , Preferences , General tab , and click the Import Settings button . Make sure the import setting is set to " iTunes Plus " ( AAC ) . This will create a new file in your iTunes library . Delete it from your iTunes library now , but be sure to check " keep file " in the delete dialog so the file itself is n't removed , just the library entry . Navigate to where the file was created on disk , somewhere like Rename the file from to Drag and drop this file into the Ringtones folder of your iTunes ( or , just double-click it and iTunes will handle it automatically ) . Sync your iPhone . Make sure that " Sync Ringtones " is selected in the phone sync options ( mine was off by default ) . After syncing , you can select your new ringtone in Settings , Sounds at the Custom section at the top .
If the wireless printer has joined the network , OS X should see it listed as a nearby printer . From the Print &amp; Scan pane in System Preferences , click the Plus ( ) button in the lower left , and it should show up in the popup menu . If it does n't , select " Add Other Printer or Scanner ... " In the resulting window , the " Default " Tab will show all local Bonjour printers , as well as any connected directly via USB . If you know the local IP of the printer you want to add , you can enter this in the IP tab .
Most <URL> charges for 0.5 A . But not all USB are standardized - there are some that go for up to 1.8 A and even the MacBook Pro <URL> to raise up to 1.1 A when relevant . iPhone 's charger do little more than 1.1 A and it 's pretty decent . That 's why iPhone charging on regular USB usually take double the time to fully charge . <URL> are <URL> 10W and 5V which <URL> 2A . <URL> that can happen with the charger because USB devices are made to work with the same standard voltage ( about 5V ) . The USB hosts are only outputting the maximum energy it can provide up to what the client can receive . A 10W energy source will only give up to 10W and just 1W if the plugged device can only take 1W . I 'm no electrical specialist but ... Having bigger power supply ( measured in watts ) or bigger current ( measured in amperes ) on itself ca n't break any system because what puts them in movement is the difference of potential measured by volts . Think of a light bulb and picture all USB devices are prepared to receive about 5V ( actually little more ) . If you get a 220V and put in on a 110V nothing wrong happens , but it will be very weak . Apple 's chargers only go up to 5V , which is within the USB standard . So yeah , it 's all good and safe .
Have you tried extracting them from your back up file ? See this <URL> .
An OEM dock just popped up in store.apple.com after the 9/10 event : <URL>
Search for in a browser . Or download one or several of the Apple update catalog files directly e.g : <URL> <URL> <URL> Open the file ( s ) with a decent text editor . Search the file for MLV_locale_name with locale : your preferred locale and name : the voice name . E.g. searching for MLV_it_IT_alice will reveal : containing the ServerMetadataURL and the direct pkg download URL : <URL> Enter the pkg download URLs in a browser or a download manager to get all desired voices .
This MacBook can simultaneously support the internal display as well as up to 3840x2160 at 30 Hz or up to 4096x2160 at 24Hz on one external display . In other words , connecting two external Thunderbolt Displays is not officially supported by Apple . The two displays are the internal display and an external display . If you 're still interested in connecting one external display , since this MacBook has a single USB-C port and no traditional video port , you 'll need an adapter to connect the display . Apple provides support for both HDMI and VGA via the following respective adapters : the <URL> for HDMI monitors , and also allows you to connect a standard USB device and a USB-C charging cable . the <URL> for VGA monitors . Like the HDMI adapter , this also allows you to connect a standard USB device and a USB-C charging cable . Once you have the appropriate adapter , it 's just a case of connecting the cable between it and your monitor . Of course , you may choose to purchase 3rd party adapters instead of the Apple branded ones .
I do n't believe so . The available API for battery state in iOS gives you only 5 % resolution . It might be possible to write an app that polls battery state and calculates a rate of charge based on the time between 5 % intervals but I do n't know of any apps that do this . If you want to get your app on the app store that 's about the best way of measuring it directly . I know of an app that captures the screen and looks at the battery charge image to determine charge an alternative way but that 's iffy , the size or appearance of the battery indicator might change between versions and then it breaks . Jailbroken devices are a whole other can of worms . I know how to get 1 % resolution on devices with a private API but you ca n't get such an app on the store so distribution is going to be limited . BTW your terminology is a bit confusing . " Current " would be the right term , less commonly " amperage " . I had to read a couple of times through to work it out , I thought you were talking about music volume at first .
Can a Macbook charge it 's batteries from a USB-A charger ( car or wall ) or battery pack ? It depends , but yes , it should work . The charging performance may vary from it charges very slowly to not at all . " Type A " is the <URL> ; it has nothing to do with how much power is being delivered . What you need is a power adapter that is compliant to USB 3.1 specifications . It just so happens that to connect it to your MacBook , you need a " Type C " connector . Would I recommend you doing this ? Absolutely not . Important Note : Plugging into a power source that is significantly lower than what is required by your device can and will <URL> . Why ? First , we need to know what the power requirements are to power the <URL> ; per Apple , it requires a 29W USB-C Power Adapter ( see below ) . <URL> Generally speaking , the USB Type A adapters most people are familiar with are those that charge their iDevices . These are based on USB 2.0 at best and according to the <URL> , they are limited to 5V 1.5 A . <URL> That means , those chargers are limited to 7.5 W. ( Watts = Volts * Amps ) 7.5 W is nowhere enough to power your Macbook . <URL> If you notice in the above USB 3.0 pin out diagram , there is only 1 5V ( VCC ) pin ( this is important in understanding USB 3.1 further down ) . The USB 3.1 is the specification that says it will support up to 20V at 5A . Using the same equation from above we get a specification that is capable of handling up to 100W so there 's enough power " bandwidth " to charge your Macbook . But that 's using a special communications protocol over a USB-C cable . 20V * 5A = 100W However , the basic spec is still the same , 5V but now at 3A and there are two 5 volt pins as opposed to only one for USB 3.0 and earlier . This means combined you can get 10V . <URL> If you notice in this pin out diagram there are two 5V pins ( Vbus ) . These are combined to make 10V . Note : There are some USB 3.1 Type A adapters out in the wild , but they are so few and far between I was n't able to find a schematic for the pinouts . I am using Type C since these are the most common . So using our trusty equation again , ( 2x 5V ) * 3A = 10V * 3A = 30W 30W is within spec of charging your Macbook . But what about the cable ? Plugging in a USB 3.1 ( A to C ) into a non-USB 3.1 power adapter will not fix the problem . The adapter is only providing 5 volts on one pin , not on two that 's required to get the appropriate amount of current .
The answer is YES . You can use the higher power Charger on lower power laptops . The battery will only take as much as it can handle . It is a pull not push process . Extra info : If you were to use lower power charger on high power laptop , you could end up newer charging the battery fully , or it could take extended time to charge .
Web clips added by a profile can be set to not be able to be deleted with the X , therefore hiding the X when in edit mode . To remove a web clip added in this way , you need to remove the profile from Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Profiles . You can also try disabling restrictions if they are on . Go to Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Restrictions and switch it off , then try removing the web clips .
I know of no device that is sold to act as a write block that also allow full 1A charging , but <URL> might help you if you wanted a DIY hardware solution for the older 30 pin USB connectors . In the mean time , you have several ways to secure the data without needing a custom piece of hardware . Lock your iOS device with a passcode before connecting it . <URL> . You could go a step further and be ready to power off the device as soon as it 's connected - shortening the window for the OS to be available to the charging station . The devices will still charge and should n't wake up unless it detects a disconnect/reconnect of the USB cord . Be careful to not establish trust with unknown chargers and computers by tapping when prompted by iOS 7 . Furthermore , if you upgrade to iOS 7 , anytime you connect to a computer which could potentially read your data , you are alerted to this fact rather than having the device share all data because it 's not locked with a passcode . This <URL> prevents any access to your device 's storage without a positive user step to allow that access . The device wo n't talk data to the " charging station " until the passcode is entered on the touchscreen . ( Or the astronomically unlikely but theoretically possible chance that the charging station provides the one and only unique to you secure certificate generated and stored on your primary iTunes computer . ) The charging station ca n't try entering passwords one by one - so it 's not like you are at more risk by charging an hour versus 2 minutes .
If you bought the device without a contract , it 's unlocked ! The information about AT&amp;T and Verizon is important when talking about LTE availability in the US . Only AT&amp;T and Verizon provide LTE networks in the US that work with the iPad . 4G LTE is supported only on AT&amp;T and Verizon networks in the U.S. and on Bell , Rogers , and Telus networks in Canada . <URL> This is important to note as LTE frequency bands used in Europe , Australia and probably most of Asia are <URL> . You will use DC-HSDPA , HSPA + or UMTS instead for fast internet access .
You might be interested in exporting all of the KeyChain in to Text file that you can save for later uses . Be aware anyone with access to your computer can now plainly see that information . Run this in Terminal You will have to click " Allow " till done , or use script that does that , but since it is usually one time action just do it manually .
end question
start question
How can I diagnose or fix the CalendarAgent occupying a whole CPU on Mountain Lion ?
I am still looking for a solid answer . In the meantime , I have the following script running in AppleScript Editor . This script looks for the every 15 seconds and kills the process . This renders calendar syncing unusable , but at least I can use my Mac again . I will let this run until I find a permanent solution . The script is :
Yes its possible . The limitations that need to be over came are three fold . There are two things that prevent 10.8 from installing on a MacPro 1,1 . The first is the lack of EFI64 . Mountain Lion as has no support for 32bit kernel and extensions so it will not boot . This is true of many early Intel macs . The other thing is that checks are made by the installer ; against a supported machines list . If your mac is n't on the list , it refuses to install . It 's important to note that an upgraded graphics card is virtually essential . The stock 7300 GT is n't supported and will cause Kernel Pannic . I do n't think the X1900-xt is either , my 8800GT did odd things on DP1 but may be OK on newer builds . Ideally Id try and source a HD5770 or other newer card . Solutions : New compatible graphics card will need to be obtained . The first issue can be dealt with by using the Chameleon bootloader . Chameleon will emulate EFI64 and therefore load 10.8 . Customization of the 10.8 Installer by adding your machine kind back onto the list of supported machines . Sources : <URL> <URL>
This has happened to me in the past . The solution that worked for me was making sure that the disc surface is clean and scratch free , and I mean very clean . Using normal CD wipes is good to get dirt off , but if it is scratched more than slightly , then you may have problems . Or the disc may be defective from the factory , it does happen and they do exist . Try talking to your local Apple Store about a possible replacement , or if worst comes to the worst , you can order one <URL> ( Apple still stocks them ) . Hope this helps !
Apple has a very nice explanation of how Migration Assistant works , what steps and accessories you need and much more : <URL> In a nutshell , Migration Assistant has three bins of data to move : Applications ( just the programs - no user data or settings transfer ) Users ( the user data , settings , preferences , saved files and such - but no Applications . You could have all your Word docs , but no Word to edit them in this case ) Everything else that 's not an App or a User . This gets oddball things like / Users/Shared files and folders that do n't belong to one user , unix and command line tools like homebrew that get installed outside / Applications and / Users . So with three check marks ( let 's assume you do n't have multiple users ) , there are 7 combinations you could migrate - each leaving a different set of data on the destination Mac . ( If Applications was A , Users was B , and Everything else C ) You could combine them as follows : A , B , C , A+B , B+C , A+C , or A+B+C I would say , you get to experiment when you get your new Mac . Run the migration you think is best , and then test it . If you do n't like it , erase the destination Mac ( booting into recovery mode , erasing the HD and re-install a clean OS might take 25 minutes on a fast network - the OS download is 4 Gb or so ) and re-run the assistant . For me , I would recommend both migrating from your Backup and then optionally re-migrating from the old Mac . It 's important to test your backup - when was the last time you tested a restore to be sure you have a viable backup ? Everyone says " make sure you back up " but they really mean and might be better saying is , " make sure you can restore your backup and it has what you need ! " I would encourage you to configure your Time Machine on the old Mac to exclude any things you do n't want moved to the new Mac , make a back up and write down the time of the back up . Then eject the backup drive and change the backup settings to back everything up again . You could take that " latest " backup and Migrate it to the new Mac and test for a while ( re-connecting the backup drive to the old Mac ) to keep your " main " Mac backing up . As you test the new mac for a day or so , you can decide it 's time to move over . At that point , turn off Time Machine on the old Mac and connect the backup drive to the new Mac . It will offer to " inherit " the old backups and you can move forward . Worst case , you still have the backups to restore something needed and then can clear the old Mac for donation , sale or mothballing .
It sounds like you 're a developer . You should install Mac Ports . It 's REALLY helpful and useful to have . You can use it to get command line tools such as autoconf . It 's always useful to have if you work with command line a lot . Just install the . pkg from <URL> to install MacPorts . After so , in terminal , run : More info : <URL>
iMac ( Mid 2011 or newer ) Mac mini ( Mid 2011 or newer ) MacBook Air ( Mid 2011 or newer ) MacBook Pro ( Early 2011 or newer ) Regular Airplay is still supported on all Macs running Mountain Lion .
You missed a step when setting up iCloud . On each Mac , you can set the default account to be iCloud in the general preferences . Now , you 'll need a short clean up to migrate all your incorrectly filed contacts . Select Accounts and temporarily disable each iCloud / Exchange / online account . Then export all the " On My Mac " contacts to a vCard file and delete them ( you have a backup of your Mac and if paranoid , a full export of all contacts before you delete things , no ? ) Once things are clean , enable the default account , check that it 's set like above , and drag the contacts onto the " All bike@whatever " Import all the contacts , even if there are duplicates as you can then have Contacts look for duplicates and merge / update existing contacts as needed . Once you 've deleted all contacts from On My Mac and deselected it as the default , Contacts should hide that group from view and simplify your contacts going forward . At this point , optionally enable other cloud contact sources and re-verify the default account .
Try running Keychains Repair Tool by opening Keychain from you Utilities folder , then from the menu bar choose Keychain Access , then Keychain First Aid , then enter your password , verify then start it . If there are any problems click Repair then Start . ( via <URL> ) If that does n't work then try Resetting your Keychain . Via <URL> you just need to do these steps : Open Keychain Access , which is in the Utilities folder within the Applications folder . From the Keychain Access menu , choose Preferences . Click General , then click Reset My Default Keychain . Authenticate with your account login password . Quit Keychain Access then Restart your computer .
Apple 's tools for accessing the Spotlight index ( Spotlight itself and the command ) do n't offer any regex options , nor do I know of any 3rd party tools that offer that ( I 'm not actually sure Apple has APIs that would make that possible ) . However the command does offer a much more powerful interface than the GUI Spotlight search . It offers proper binary operators and finer grained control over what metadata you search . Check out <URL> for some good information , as well as the <URL> .
AD user @patrix did a great AD blog post on new terminal commands in Mountain Lion . You can find it here : <URL>
First of all , make sure you have added your systems knows about your Apple ID ( go to System Preferences - > Users &amp; Groups - > Your User - > Apple ID ) . Then launch Chess ; obviously you 'll need to have an internet connection . After a short wait ( a second or two in my case , might depend on your internet connection ) , a badge like the following should appear in the Chess window : After it appears , you should simply be able to go to Game - > New ... and select GameCenter Match in Players .
This would make scrolling up ( or dragging up with two fingers ) over an icon show app Exposé :
You may need two approaches : one to switch the version for the applet plug-in alone another approach to switch the version for other parts of the JRE without switching the version for the applet plug-in . My <URL> : Java 8 for apps that do not use the plug-in Java 7 Update 9 for the applet plug-in . To switch the applet plug-in but not other parts of the JRE/JDK from Java 8 to Java 7 Update 9 quit web browsers and any other apps that use Java or the Java applet plug-in install JDK 8 set aside the plug-in install JRE 7 Update 9 or JDK 7 Update 09 . Setting aside : suggested move If you plan to switch frequently , you may prefer a different temporary location . Result At the same time : To switch the applet plug-in but not other parts of the JRE/JDK from Java 7 Update 9 to Java 6 Update 37 Answers under : <URL> To switch the JRE but not the applet plug-in from Java 8 to Java 7 Update 9 Install JDK 7 Update 09 then JDK 8 the OS and apps will default to use the greatest version . Quit any apps that use Java . No need to quit the browser . Set aside the ... directory from the OS and apps will use Java 7 Update 9 . To switch the JRE but not the applet plug-in from Java 7 Update 9 to Java 6 Update 37 Quit any apps that use Java . No need to quit the browser . Set aside the ... directory from the OS and apps will use Java 6 Update 37 . Example Generally For users of OS X , some of what 's provided by Oracle is initially misleading : <URL> ... and so on . Simplicity Whilst none of the above is as simple as switching with the Java Preferences app previously installed by Apple , the relatively simple approach of setting aside ( no need for special uninstallation ) is reminiscent of the wish for drag-and-drop installation ... <URL> in the <URL> area . Someone might like to build an app , but I should not recommend using symlinks -- it would work , but could be inconsistent with future drag-and-drop approaches to installation . Side notes At the time of writing , the most recent <URL> are ( for platforms other than OS X ) Java 6 Update 37 and ( for platforms including OS X ) Java 7 Update 9 . As greater releases will be made available , please reinterpret this answer accordingly . Java version terminology in this answer is in line with <URL> terminology .
To uninstall AdobeAIR by hand , quit any unnecessary applications ( specially applications that might use AdobeAIR ) . Then delete the following files and folders . / Applications/Adobe/Flash Player/AddIns/airappinstaller ( alternatively remove the / Applications/Adobe folder - first checking that its sub-folders do not contain files other than AdobeAIR files . ) / Applications/Utilities/Adobe AIR Application Installer.app / Applications/Utilities/Adobe AIR Uninstaller.app / Library/Frameworks/Adobe AIR.framework / Users/Shared/Library / Application Support/Adobe/AIR ( alternatively remove the / Users/Shared/Library folder - first checking that its sub-folders do not contain files other than AdobeAIR files . ) The following files are in your Home Folder ( represented by ' ~ ' ) . You can access this Library folder by holding down ⌥ while accessing the Finder menu Go > Library . ~ / Library/Application Support/Adobe/AIR ( alternatively remove the ~ / Library/Application Support/Adobe folder - first checking that its sub-folders do not contain files other than AdobeAIR files . ) ~ / Library/Caches/com . adobe.air.ApplicationInstaller ~ / Library/Caches/com . adobe.air.Installer ~ / Library/Preferences/com . adobe.air.ApplicationInstaller.plist ~ / Library/Preferences/com . adobe.air.ApplicationInstaller.plist.lockfile ~ / Library/Preferences/Macromedia / Flash Player / #Security / FlashPlayerTrust/air .1.0 . trust.cfg ~ / Library/Preferences/Macromedia / Flash Player/www . macromedia.com/bin/airappinstaller These files were found by scanning the file system before and after installing the latest version of AdobeAIR to see the file changes that were made .
from <URL> So you might be best contacting them .
Do n't worry , the filesystem is really the same as in Lion . What you may have misunderstood is how the new iCloud integration works . Every app that supports it ( it may even be built-in if you use the system-standard open/save components , I 'm unsure ) will display an iCloud tab in the Open/Save dialogs , but this is in addition to the standard Finder hierarchy that 's been around forever . This new iCloud storage does n't allow nested folders , so you only get one level of hierarchy . The idea is to keep things simple à la iOS ( it looks like and is conceptually the same as organizing apps on iOS ) . For more detail and description , check out the <URL> section of <URL> 's Mountain Lion review at Ars Technica .
Try running the Apple Hardware Test . If I remember right , reboot holding D . If that does n't work , reboot while holding D , with an OS X disk in . Of course you 'll need to have an external DVD drive for that to work .
A few things : Apache built into OS X runs on port 80 . If XAMPP could n't start the web server erroring because port 8000 is in use , something is listening on that port already . You did one of the right things in reconfiguring XAMPP 's Apache port , the other would be to find what 's running on 8000 :) . You 're using the " Bonjour " name of your server , in theory . The name . But if it 's taking more than a second to resolve , then it is obviously browsing out to the internet in order to resolve the name to an address and come back inside . If you know how , you can take the time to investigate your Bonjour settings . If you have Wide-Area Bonjour Browsing configured , but the server on the other end is not ( or is no longer ) , these lookup delays are not completely impractical . The quickest fix to this problem would just be to use instead of , the longer one would be to trace where exactly your DNS lookup is heading too , and determining why a multi-second lookup is occurring .
That apple ID applies only to the user account that is created during the setup process . If you look in System Preferences , you 'll notice the following option called " Apple ID " , under a test account I created : Additionally , when logging into the new test account , I was presented with the iCloud login screen which you saw during initial setup of the OS install on your Mac . If you restored your iMac from a backup , or installed Mountain Lion over Lion , you will already have access to those accounts without seeing the iCloud setup screen . In that case , open System Preferences , click on Users &amp; Groups , and set up your iCloud account as you wish . So , one iCloud account per local account . This would appear to be the case on Lion as well .
Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.2 : Click on the photo in Contacts Click once to select the one you want from the resulting grid of available photos Click on the icon with the pencil across it at the bottom left of the grid window . Click on the larger version of the image that appears , and copy the image to the clipboard . Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.4 : Click on the photo in Contacts Make sure the image opens in the large Pop-up underneath the small image . Click on the larger image . Copy the image to the clipboard , e.g. via command-C . You can now paste the image anywhere you want . For example , you can open Preview and , when it 's ready , select the menu File < New from Clipboard , and a new window will open with the photo in it . You can then save that file in any format available to anywhere you wish .
end question
start question
Is there a way to add To-Do 's to iCal from the iPhone ?
With iOS5 and iCloud , iCal 's reminders appear in the Reminders app .
click on show all bookmark ( open book ) on top-left of your safari . then search the site you want to remove ( e.g : <URL> ) after that delete it from history when you delete the singe site you never find <URL> when press bl in address bar . search here :
Yes , under Settings - > Messages - > Receive At - > Caller ID you can set the phone number or email address you want your messages to appear to come from . <URL> .
Go to Settings > Notifications > Stock Widget and turn it Off . Notifications for all apps that can display them are managed in Settings . Two built-in apps , Stocks and Weather , get exceptional treatment and show in Notification Center as widgets . In the Notifications Settings , they are listed as Stock Widget and the Weather Widget . To prevent an app from displaying in Notification Center , click the app in the list and make sure the option " Notification Center " is set to off .
Since Mail does not have a predefined filter ( in Smart Mailboxes ) to get the 50 last received messages , I can imagine you could achieve something like this in an AppleScript . The AppleScript should : get every message in Inbox sort the list by date select all but the most recent 50 ones delete selected Then , create a Mail rule that will be triggered whenever a new email arrives ( e.g. you could trigger it on the condition that Recipient contains an " @ " or that Sender is not empty ) , and have the rule execute your AppleScript . To get you started on how to write an AppleScript that processes Mail messages , see the script you can find in :
Third party solutions In my experience , BlueHarvest is best in class . Technically , it is not an answer to the question ; it can remove but not prevent files . If BlueHarvest is effective but does not suit your use case , it becomes difficult to give an acceptable answer to your question . If you have no acceptable third party solution , then you must work with what 's integral to Leopard ... Without a third party solution : restrain your use of Finder By avoiding the views that you do not wish to save , you can prevent creation of files . Most users will find it difficult to restrain themselves in this way , but it 's a true answer within the limitations of the question . <URL> for an annotated view of <URL> where Matt Deatherage ( a former engineer at Apple ) explains and other types of file .
If you can use the Terminal , <URL> lets you specify the name of the file ( and much more ) .
This is now possible since iOS 4.3.3 by going into the iPhone App Store > Updates > Purchased . It provides a list of your iPhone app purchases and allows redownloading from the iCloud . Also you can visit reportaproblem.apple.com and all recent purchases will be shown .
Not unless you use custom firmware ( Rockbox , iPod Linux for older models ) . The iPod depends on a database file for playing files and if you just copy the files over they will not be in said database and subsequently the iPod will not be able to play them .
Sorry , but Apple does n't allow this , and it does n't even look like there is a jailbreak tweak for this .
This is a feature apple brought with the lastest OS X : OS X Yosemite . OS X Yosemite is still a beta and will be released publicly in fall 2014 .
Custom syntax color themes are located in ( Note that this directory may not exist if you 've not yet modified any of your themes or have n't created a custom theme of your own , but will be created as soon as you do . ) The files have a extension . Simply retrieve the file from that directory and copy it into the same directory on another machine . I quite like Ethan Schoonover 's <URL> ; I find them to be very readable and easy on the eyes , and can be installed as explained above .
After doing some research , I finally found where they were located , and then figured a quick way to get back to them . The files themselves are stored in hashed folders under . I then created a Smart Folder using this path , and then selecting Kind as " Image " . This then provides me with a directory with just the images in Photo Stream , outside of their folders . I also verified that this was working on a machine where iPhoto did n't have Photo Stream enabled itself , the only Photo Stream part was enabled in System Preferences . Therefore , it was syncing on its own , and not with a relation to iPhoto having to launch to trigger it . You ca n't into a smart folder , but it looks like I can use some actions with it it . I moreso wanted a direct folder , so I could copy stuff out quickly .
vilmoskörte 's <URL> appears to be a good one , but I took it upon myself to make a tool that does this for my own education . I put it on GitHub . <URL> A simple command line tool . No options , just runs and outputs Lat/Long , accuracy in meters , and a timestamp . It will need OS X Location Services to be turned on ( System Preferences > Security &amp; Privacy ) , and permission to gather your location ( OS X will prompt you on first run ) . <URL>
If you 're using an iCloud mail account then you can go to <URL> In the top right of the screen there 's a preferences icon -- looks like a cog . If you click on that the preferences pop-over opens , click on Rules and from there you can configure some basic rules to put messages into specified folders .
You can do it with some AppleScript . This will create a new desktop every time you run it : You can save this as a Universal Service you can assign a globally-available shortcut key combination to call it . <URL> .
It looks like <URL> . Is OS X the backups seems to be stored in the following location ... ... but I do n't think you can change that location .
I do not have the Yosemite but on <URL> : The trick is to assign a second Space to the desktop . You do that by pressing the Mission Control button on your Mac keyboard ( F3 ) or whatever you 've assigned in System Preferences > Mission Control , and moving the mouse to the upper right of the display until you see a Plus ( + ) icon . Click it to create a new Space . After you 've created a second Space , your dock option will change . Now you 'll see this : Now you can assign the app to the Desktop of your choice , typically either the desktop on display # 1 or display # 2 .
In Notes.app when you are in the " On this iPhone " section , any notes you create will exist only on the phone ( not synced with google or iCloud ) . The option disappears when all your notes are synced , presumably to encourage you to save to iCloud by default , but the solution is simply to leave one in the " on this iPhone " folder .
All you need is to open Terminal.app and type : That way the system will be forced to terminate all open programs , ignoring any unsaved file changes . So , in order to be able to launch it via the desktop , you need to open Applescript editor , and type : Save the script as an Application , and drag it in your Dock , or somewhere where you 'll find it instantly .
end question
start question
Does Chase 's QuickDeposit feature work on the iPod Touch 4G ?
looks like they just updated to version 2.8.1202 , release notes say " Quick Deposit for iPod touch - Now you can use your camera-enabled iPod touch to make a deposit . "
GPS uses satellites to triangulate your position with great accuracy , however there are other ways to get a fix provided you can triangulate via other means . Apple uses a database of WIFI networks with known locations to help ascertain your location in some instances ( i.e. if you can see WIFI networks A B and E , then you must be approximately located at Z for example ) . Also , using cellular information you can do a similar thing by noting which cells you are able to see and the relative signal strengths you are receiving from them . EDIT : Also , it is possible with a lesser degree of accuracy to estimate your location just by using your IP address . This can be tracked down to a certain extent and while likely not sufficient to be accurate by itself , when you combine this with all the other methods above you can start to get a picture with more accuracy .
Autofocus on the iPhone is done via an electrical motor , moving the front lens backward and forward , and software that captures and analyses the image for best sharpness , which usually is the " sweet " spot . Recent versions of iOS probably offload the analysis to the <URL> available since the Apple A5 chip .
Camera sensors are not only limited in their resolution , but also in the rate at which the image data can be read off of them . Just because a sensor can take 5-megapixel still images does n't mean that all of that data can be read off the sensor fast enough to record ( smooth ) video . Even reading just a subset of the pixels ( called pixel binning ) to reduce the amount of data may not be enough to get 1080p images at , say , 30 frames per second . A web search indicates that the iPhone 4 uses an Omnivision OV5650 sensor . According to Omnivision 's own <URL> for that sensor , it 's limited to 720p video , so it 's not just a software thing . I could n't find any specifics about the sensor in the new iPod touch , but it 's almost certainly a different one if it records 1080p .
Seems feasible . The last post on <URL> says someone got it to work . <URL> ( not just sync ) though .
No , but you can create an image that has your name and contact info on it , then use that as your lock screen wallpaper . You could also create a note on the device or an " emergency/lost " contact in the address book , but both of those require you to not use a passcode to use the device . A wallpaper with contact info works even if the person who finds your iPod ca n't unlock it .
One option is to use the Zoom function from the Accessibility options . From the Settings app , choose General > Accessibility > Zoom and turn Zoom on . Zoom provides several features : Once Zoom is turned on , you can double tap with three fingers ( assuming you can fit three of your fingers on the screen at once ! ) to zoom in or out . With three fingers you can drag your fingers around to change the area of the screen that is zoomed in . Tap with three fingers then tap again and drag your fingers up and down to zoom in and out more . These should make the targets a bit easier to hit although it will probably slow you down a little . This function was discovered by a friend who accidentally turned it on after a few drinks and could n't work out hour to turn it off . An iPod touch is really hard to use when zoomed in if you do n't know why it is zoomed in .
It should be possible . The to-do list would be considered ' tasks ' , which falls under the category of Calendar Events . in Entourage , choose Entourage > Preferences and click Sync Services under General Preferences : More information : <URL>
Having used 4.2 GM on my iPhone 4 for a couple of weeks now I personally find it much much better at managing and minimising memory usage ( regular checks using iStat ) . This should translate to better performance on older devices with limited RAM as less RAM to flash swapping will be required .
I did it . ( Apple Developer ) . I have a second computer that I use for all beta testing , running OS X 10.6 . I used the app store on that computer to download the Lion Beta Installer . It downloads and installs just like any other app . You then run the Lion Beta Installer app and it reboots and installs Lion as if it came off a CD . After another reboot , you are running Lion , with all your apps and settings working just fine . Hope this does not defy the NDA .
The Trim Enabler patches the following Kext-File which checks if the ssd is a 3rd-party or Apple Branded SSD : you can also enable trim manually by looking for all ' Apple ' occurrences in the file and patching them in a hex-editor or via terminal :
In a nutshell , iOS sets up a persistent connection to the Apple Push Notification ( APN ) servers if you elect to use iMessage , iCloud , Notifications or other push services . From there , the phone checks in with the servers anytime it has a network connection and listens for messages that the servers wish to push to your device . Furthermore , iOS then registers which applications on your phone should get specific messages . All the messages pass through the notification center system in case you have elected for them to be posted to specific places such as the lock screen , the notification tray or just passed off to the end application for each message as appropriate . That 's it . There 's a server . ( likely many behind a load balancer ) There 's a connection that your device opens to the server . Things can then arrive through the connection .
In a word ? Nope . The app store provides a couple of facilities for getting applications , but all of them are for the most recent versions . There 's a chance that you may be able to use un-delete software on your iTunes App directory and recover it , if the data space has not already been overwritten . Otherwise , you must preserve IPA 's that iTunes throws into the Trash , else they 're pretty much gone forever . Additionally , to the best of my knowledge , IPA binaries are unique on a downloaded system , for DRM purposes , so I believe you can not simply obtain an archived version from a friend , and send it back into iTunes .
The recording is HD ( 720p ) up to 30 frames per second with audio - but since both the audio and video are compressed using lossy algorithms , you might sometimes get significantly storage depending on the source . In practice the <URL> with the same HD ( 720p ) up to 30 frames per second - but the few recording I 've seen from the iPod touch have data rates about half as high ( which use about half the space ) . My iPhone usually records between 2 and 10 Mbit/s . The lower end is for static , mostly black images and if things are moving or detailed , you get to the higher end of the range pretty easily . You can make some test recordings and open them in QuickTime Player where the inspector window will show you the details for the video you are shooting . A little pen and paper or a spreadsheet will convince you of how much time you can expect to capture before your device runs out of space .
It uses both Bluetooth LE 4.0 AND 802.11 ac WiFi . Bluetooth is used to discover the Apple Watch and establish a connection . Then it uses WiFi to do " time-in-flight " calculations - i.e. to figure out how far your watch is from the Mac . The Mac needs to support 802.11 ac WiFi for this to work . All watches are supported , both the old and the new - even though the old ones does not support 802.11 ac . This way it is possible to prevent attacks such as someone planting a " bluetooth repeater " near you , so that it could replay your bluetooth responses captured this way to a Mac located somewhere remotely .
Sync your iPod Touch configuration back to iTunes and then sync your iPad with iTunes ! For syncing your iPod configuratuon you must only connect it with iTunes . Every time it will be created a backup of the device . After that you connect your iPad ( which has been restored to default factory ) with iTunes . Then you can do the following steps which are described on the <URL> ( Restoring your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch ) .
Offline tracks obtained through apple music do not sync across to ipod . Its a shame really , they could easily put a timer on the songs , so if the ipod is not plugged into registered device every so often , the songs will become locked .
So - It appears that they did remove this feature in Yosemite .
<URL> ( <URL> ) Free Allows you to make completely free phone calls using your Google Voice account . There are ads , but hey , it 's free ! I 've had no trouble with it at all and I highly recommend it .
The iPod touch ( 5th Generation ) does not have a magnetometer ( digital compass ) sensor .
end question
start question
Can I get Mountain Lion on a MacBook ?
Probably not . The system requirements for 10.8 say " MacBook ( Late 2008 Aluminum , or Early 2009 or newer ) " . You 'd also need to install 10.6.8 or 10.7 first in order to install Mountain Lion from App Store . See these Apple KB articles : <URL> <URL> <URL> EveryMac.com has a list of maximum OS X versions supported by different Macs : <URL> <URL>
What you like to do ... there is a working SSH / SSL already on your Mac . If you like to build stunnel you need Xcode with the CLI tools ... and some time . I haven ´ t tried it but a quick look in the build instructions looks as if there are no big problems . As promised , here are the steps to build stunnel from source . I used a Lion machine but it is the same on a Mountain Lion machine . There is no need for Fink , MacPorts or Homebrew ... brings more troubles then it helps . Go to <URL> and download stunnel-5.23.tar.gz and stunnel-5.23.tar.gz . sha256 . Open a terminal Utilities = > Terminal > . Terminal is case sensitive , before you do something think twice before you press return - there is no undo or redo in terminal . Each line is one line in terminal and needs to press return at the end of the line . Compare the output of the last 2 lines - if it matches all is fine , if not you had a security problem during download . The configure script uses autoconf , so put your fingers away from other options because if all is there and supported it will build a fine 64 bit app for you . make check is optionally . sudo make install requires your admin password . During this step you had to input some basic informations ( self explaining ) . The &amp; &amp; is used to run one command after each other ONLY if the last was successful . After all is done your stunned app was installed in / usr/local/bin . To run it , open terminal and type or ( see the docs for the difference ) and press return . For the config file type in terminal . For the documentation of pico use in terminal . If I had some mistypes of filenames or anything else here use in terminal the following command to list a directory For the rest , have fun with stunned and the documentation of it !
I am still looking for a solid answer . In the meantime , I have the following script running in AppleScript Editor . This script looks for the every 15 seconds and kills the process . This renders calendar syncing unusable , but at least I can use my Mac again . I will let this run until I find a permanent solution . The script is :
Though not directly answering your question this line will give you the time in seconds since the last user interaction which comes from what OS X considers to be an idle user . ( independently of screen-savers or black displays . )
According to <URL> , you can force a Launchpad reload by removing a file in . This file is the SQLite database for Launchpad . Theoretically , you should be able to recover the file , which has a name something like : and move it to the correct place . Note that you should backup the current file before doing this .
Buy an <URL> from OWC or another vendor . Buy and put your SSD in the enclosure . Connect SSD/enclosure to your computer . Format the SSD with Apple 's Disk Utility . Use <URL> to copy your entire internal HD onto the SSD . Set startup to the SSD and boot from it to make sure it boots . Remove SSD from enclosure and install in MacBook Pro . Put MacBook Pro 's internal hard disk in now empty enclosure and use it as a backup . You also can use Disk Utility to image the drive if you do n't want to use a third party product like <URL> or <URL> . Some people also prefer a simple USB to SATA connector and you can usually get them for less than $ 5 from Amazon if you do n't need or want a drive enclosure for your old drive . However , the use of your old hard disk in an enclosure and a backup tool like SuperDuper ! or CCC gives you both an external drive and the beginning of a solid backup solution as well .
Yes ( maybe ) . There 's an open-source kernel driver <URL> for Mac OS X that will work for some USB and Firewire enclosures . It uses <URL> to pass the SMART commands through to the hard drive , so only works if your enclosure supports SAT . SAT is n't something enclosures seem to advertise support for , but the one I use ( WD MyBook Studio Edition ) happens to support it , so it works for me . It 'll probably be quicker to test the software with your drive/enclosure , than to find out if SAT is supported in the specs .
OS X Mountain Lion should still be listed in list of purchased applications in the OS X App Store application . You can download it from there .
It 's a boring answer , but it looks like Afloat has been updated to support Lion : <URL>
No , you ca n't use Google Sync through Mail.app in Mountain Lion . Google 's exchange server m.google.com is not a fully implemented exchange server . It just implements the ActiveSync protocol which seems to be a subset of the exchange protocol for mobile devices . See also this information on Google Sync : <URL>
Use the built-in CUPS web interface to get detailed printer information : <URL>
Probably not . The system requirements for 10.8 say " MacBook ( Late 2008 Aluminum , or Early 2009 or newer ) " . You 'd also need to install 10.6.8 or 10.7 first in order to install Mountain Lion from App Store . See these Apple KB articles : <URL> <URL> <URL> EveryMac.com has a list of maximum OS X versions supported by different Macs : <URL> <URL>
What you can do is to check if you are running the right build . It 's just to check that you are not still running the developer preview . Lion is free for developers anyway , so that might be the reason you got it for free .
The simplest solution I found is to <URL> ( download button is on top right ) Unpack it to somewhere . Preferably to . This is what it looks for me : Set your to your new location by doing before your in your ( or ) file Prepend to your by doing this Restart your shell or do
If you are using something like the <URL> drive from MCE Tech , you an put either drive in the caddy . I prefer to make a single change at a time , so when I did this I put the new drive in the caddy and left the old working boot drive alone . As for installing from a USB thumb drive ( I assume this is what you meant since you were n't clear ) , you should n't have to . You can download the Mountain Lion installer and run the app . During the install process you can choose what drive to install the OS on , simple choose the newly installed and formatted SSD . Once you have both OS installed , the system will remember the last drive that was selected in the Startup Disk preferences and store that choice in NVRAM so that it will continue to start from the preferred drive . You can hold the option key at boot to prevent this choice and pick from all bootable drives when you want to switch things on a specific boot . Most people find that having two OS internally is confusing . Spotlight will try to find the correct version of Safari if you do n't keep them both updated , but sometimes you end up running the wrong version of an app . This is confusing at best , and troublesome most of the time and can cause data issues when the wrong version of an app opens data it did n't expect from a newer version of iPhoto for instance .
It depends on how much you care about your warranty . If you want to keep your warranty valid , Apple says you can upgrade your hard drive and your RAM -- and that 's all . To learn how to do it , here are Apple 's user manuals and page references for the current ( mid-2010 ) MacBook Pros : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Apple computers have long been considered " virus free " although Apple stopped pushing this as a selling point earlier this year in the wake of several Apple targeted viruses . The truth is that a virus can be programmed for mac much like a software application can , the reason for the lack if infections on mac was merely the same as the reason for lack of some apps in the past , the relative unpopularity vs windows machines meant it was less practical to program for mac . With macs now being more popular than ever before , Apple now has to implement strict measures to hold on to their clean , virus free image , hence Gatekeeper being added to Mountain Lion .
As far as I know , every emacs under the sun can run in a terminal : Change the path , of course , if your emacs resides elsewhere . If this is too long to type , even with tab completion , you can create a symlink to the executable , or make an alias for your shell . Look to <URL> for a precompiled modern Emacs for OS X.
It 's not quite right , but this can be installed with <URL> and is off by a mere few pixels . <URL>
According to the <URL> page you can update from Snow Leopard ( 10.6.8 ) Lion ( 10.7 ) , or Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) later to Mavericks ( 10.9 ) if your hardware meets the requirements , which yours does . I upgraded my 2012 MacBook Air to Mavericks about two weeks ago and the battery life is noticeably better .
end question
start question
How to automatically open files downloaded from Safari ?
One way is to use <URL> . I tried using it and it worked smoothly . However , Hazel is n't free ( $ 25 ) . The second solution is to use <URL> which is part of Mac OS X. However , using Automator did n't quite work . Some of the mp4 files did open , but for unknown reason some did n't . Also I 'm not sure if Automator has to open the files as soon as they are downloaded , or there is a time frame which it could take to open them . Maybe some one more experiences with Automator could elaborate on this .
One way is to use <URL> . I tried using it and it worked smoothly . However , Hazel is n't free ( $ 25 ) . The second solution is to use <URL> which is part of Mac OS X. However , using Automator did n't quite work . Some of the mp4 files did open , but for unknown reason some did n't . Also I 'm not sure if Automator has to open the files as soon as they are downloaded , or there is a time frame which it could take to open them . Maybe some one more experiences with Automator could elaborate on this . Here is a how to create and use an AppleScript to open . lyx files : Open AppleScript file named : copy the file to Note : I did n't have this folder , so I created both and Now , go to in Finder , right click on Downloads folder , click List should appear and contain Now you 're good to go - whenever you 'll download lyx file it should open automatically when ever you download it . NOTE : If you want to open another file type , simply change NOTE II : If you want several types use : Enjoy !
There may be other ways to do this , but a simple way would be to create your own homepage , which could look anyway you like . Then , just set the Homepage in Safari to point at that file . Make a file called " home.html " with these contents : Open that file with Safari , and use the preferences dialog to set the homepage to the current page . Also set new tabs and windows to start on your homepage .
One way is to use <URL> . I tried using it and it worked smoothly . However , Hazel is n't free ( $ 25 ) . The second solution is to use <URL> which is part of Mac OS X. However , using Automator did n't quite work . Some of the mp4 files did open , but for unknown reason some did n't . Also I 'm not sure if Automator has to open the files as soon as they are downloaded , or there is a time frame which it could take to open them . Maybe some one more experiences with Automator could elaborate on this .
I 've set up the same 3 finger middle click gesture in BTT and it works great with <URL> 's middle click to close setting .
Both return and command + O work to open files in my version of coda . Is your enter key only an enter key or combined ? It does n't look like that plug in changes key bindings so you might have to search elsewhere for something that is altering the standard behavior . Other tweaks or software possibly ?
Uncheck the , " Open " safe " files after downloading " checkbox in Safari 's General preferences .
If you highlight the file in the finder , press command-i to open the file info dialog . Change the entry " Open with " to " iCal " ( select " other " and browse for iCal if it is not listed ) . Press the button " change all " to make " open in iCal " the default action .
This is a new feature in Mac OS X Lion . See <URL> ( Resume ) . You can disable this in and untick the " Restore windows when quitting and re-opening apps , but will be system wide . Another solution is to hold ⌥ Option + ⌘ Command + Q when quitting , the app will then not save the state .
I find it easiest to use the settings app on iOS : General About Diagnostics &amp; Usage Diagnostics &amp; Usage Data scroll to the crash you care about and tap it select all , copy the text Now you can paste the report wherever you please . Email , <URL> , notes , <URL> , or wherever else you like to store the text for submitting a <URL> . You can also get at the logs after syncing from iTunes or Xcode - but getting it when the crash happens works best for me in most cases .
You can press ⌘ cmd + ⇧ shift + . while the dialog is open , which will toggle show/hide hidden files . In OSX 10.9 and up ( Mavericks , Yosemite , ... ) you need to be in the List View of Finder .
Go to the " Help " menu in Safari and select " Installed Plug-ins " . This will open a new tab displaying information about all of the currently installed plug-ins . Find the entry for Adobe Acrobat . Below it will be a line that reads something like : Note the name of the file from that line . On your hard drive you will find a Library folder . In that folder will be another folder called Internet Plug-Ins . Inside that folder you should find the file that was shown in the " Installed Plug-ins " tab . The full path should be . That file needs to be deleted . Dragging it to the trash will do the trick . If you are not sure you want to delete the file , you can move it to another location . For instance , you could create a new folder named " Disabled Plug-Ins " in the " Installed Plug-Ins " folder , and move the file to the new folder . Then quit &amp; relaunch Safari . Adobe acknowledges this is a " <URL> " and recommends this procedure .
Go to Safari preferences Disable the Open safe files after downloading
Yes . Most cases the developer will leave the app on the store , but just remove it from being sellable to new owners . That allows them to submit bug fixes for existing customers , not force them to upgrade , allow them to re-download things - but not have new buyers buying the wrong version ( not the latest ) . Of course , the developer or Apple can also remove the app entirely - but this is far less common . What is common is when the developer keeps the same name as far as the store is concerned . In this case , you 'll want to have a backup that you control to re-install no matter what Apple or the developer chooses .
If by reinstall the OS , you simply mean reinstall it and not run first-time setup , the resulting installation will not be associated with you in any way . If you intend to run first-time setup , obviously do not login with your Apple ID during that process , and of course do n't input any personally-identifiable information either . There is metadata in a receipt file in the installer file itself that is associated with your Apple ID . That is not transferred to the resulting installation , though .
Whilst copying from Safari as plain text is not possible as far as I know , the OS X system shortcut for pasting as plain text is ⇧ ⌥ ⌘ V. For Microsoft Word , go to Edit → Paste Special → Unformatted Text or Edit → Paste and Match Formatting .
From the macrumors forums you can hold shift when you launch a program to launch it without the resume previous window functionality . Alternatively , for those who want some resume functionality and do n't want to globally disable it , you can hold Shift when you launch an application to bypass resume and start that app fresh . If that doesnt work you can turn off the function globally by going to System Preferences - > General and unticking " Restore windows when quitting and reopening apps " ( you can also disable the function on a per-app basis using the <URL> )
<URL> One of the fastest ways to hide a file or folder , from Spotlight , on the fly is to add the . noindex extension to the end of the filename or folder . The simplest way to get those files hidden is to create a folder , preferably named something innocuous , and add the extension to the end of the name . I 'll end up with a folder named " Nothing to See Here.noindex " or something similar . Hide just a single file Select the file to be hidden . Right-click and select Get Info , or click Command + I. Find the Name &amp; Extension field , and replace the current extension with . noindex . When prompted to confirm that I want to change the extension , I agree . Now my file is properly hidden from Spotlight search . Finlay : Finder wo n't know what to do with my file anymore , though . Look to the drop-down labeled Open With , and select an application to handle the file . Be careful of setting a single application to handle all . noindex files , as many different file types may be hidden from Spotlight , and OS X sometimes creates . noindex files itself
uncheck ( If you 're in List view or Icon view , click to make it the default ) . Repeat for each view mode as necessary . Hope this helps ...
Stop Spaces from switching spaces due to an app coming to the foreground : Or via the GUI : and then uncheck the checkbox at the bottom : " When switching to an application , switch to a space with open windows for the application " Stop ( slow down ) Spaces from switching spaces if your mouse presses against the edge of the desktop :
end question
start question
Can I use AirPlay with an Airport Express when the WAN port is not connected ?
As long as you can find them with AirPort Utility you will be able to use them as AirPlay device . I 've used the same setup and you can wirelessly connect them and they will still function as AirPlay device ( they can even make your network more powerful ) Please also check <URL> and <URL> To make your answer complete : you can do this with both versions . If you have no internet connected , you will still be able to let the Express function as Accesspoint . You just wo n't have access to the internet via it , but that 's not weird as you do n't have an input ;)
I am not aware of any manual that contains this information but here is a breakdown , since this is one of the big reasons I got a MacBook originally . The mini display port allows you to add an additional monitor to your MacBook . Support for this is built into the OS directly so you simply connect your external monitor using the correct MD/VGA or MD/HDMI or MD/DVI connector if the monitor does not have a display port and then you can configure how the displays work . This is done under the option in . From the screen shot below you can see I am running a second monitor on my MacBook Pro at the moment and I have set the second monitor to be to the left of the main one by simply dragging it 's rectangle to where I want it . You can also move the menu to a different screen by grabbing the white strip on the primary screen and dragging it to another screen you want it on . Each display can have it 's own separate resolution and even separate backgrounds . The relevant preference panes will automatically show a dialogue on each screen if it supports multiple displays , for example the will show on both screens . You can also choose whether you want to mirror the display or use it as a second screen . In mirror mode it simply mirrors everything on your main display .
Yes , but it only works on Unibody Macs . You can also use the volume and play/pause controls .
No , you want be able to stream music to two airport express units simultaneously from an iOS device such as an iPad or iPhone . However , you can stream simultaneously from iTunes running on a Mac or PC . For example , you ca n't have speakers playing in the kitchen and speakers playing in the dining room at the same time unless they are connected to the same airport express . If you have them connected to two airport expresses , you can choose kitchen or dining room but not both . You can play to both if you stream from a Mac or PC using itunes . However , there are apps that will let you control the Mac or PC from your iOS device but you ca n't do it natively .
Launch the iPod App on your iPhone . At the bottom of the screen , you should see a button with 3 blue dots . As you can see here , there is a list item at the bottom of the page . Click that , which should bring you to a screen like : Click the name of the computer that you see in your list and then all of the videos , movies , tv shows , etc , will appear in your lists for those items . In other words , the iPod App wo n't keep the home-shared content separate . You will see the Home Sharing content as if it was integrated with the device .
Yes . You can use Time Machine with any directly attached hard drive . It is much faster , although if you have a laptop , it is somewhat less convenient to remember to plug the drive in than to use wireless . The folks from Apple were probably recommending a Time Capsule , which is a wireless router with a built-in drive for backups . It 's definitely an easy way to do it , but not required .
Unfortunately not ; Not without using another router with network Access Control Lists ( ACL ) . Airport 's Timed Access Control rejects all connection attempts to the access point from selected device based on it 's MAC address . It does n't give you any options for more granular Access Level Control in order to specify network resources the device will have access to ; as you have probably noticed by now , you only have control over scheduling . A solution to your issue would unfortunately involve buying another router that will allow for configuring ACL to the degree you need it to .
Yes to both questions : you can plug in a mini DisplayPort adapter at the end , and mini DisplayPort does n't care about rotation : OS X handles that .
The <URL> ( page 136 ) and other Apple documentation ( see bottom ) are not very specific in this regard meaning ... ... they do not state specific minimum currents required for charging . ... they only distinguish between : charging while the iPad is awake ( USB hubs with 1100 mA ; newer Macs/displays ) charging while the iPad is in sleep mode ( USB hubs with 500 mA ; standard USB/old Macs ) Low-battery image or " Not Charging " message appears or When charging , make sure you 're using the 10W USB power adapter that came with iPad or the USB port on a recent Mac . The fastest way to charge is to use the power adapter . For faster charging , turn iPad off . iPad may not charge when connected to the USB port on an older Mac , a PC , a keyboard , or to a USB hub . If your Mac or PC does n't provide enough power to charge iPad , a Not Charging message appears in the status bar . To charge iPad , disconnect it from your computer and connect it to a power outlet using the included Dock Connector to USB Cable and 10W USB power adapter . Also see the following documents : <URL> <URL>
iTunes uses iTunesHelper.app to detect if an iPhone has been plugged in . This app is usually started as a login item . Therefore you could check if iTunesHelper.app ist listed here : Preferences - > Users - > Login Items . If it 's not listed you can drag it back as described here : <URL> .
The DNS settings over a VPN connection should be forced by the VPN server . This makes sure DNS queries get routed securely over the VPN , and allows you to see private services on the intranet that may not be exposed as public DNS records . It 's possible the VPN server may not be telling iOS what DNS server to use , something that could be solved by a configuration change in the VPN server ?
Yes you can , but there are some aspects of the environment of the beach life that need to be controlled . Salt water corrodes electronics fiercely . Waves crashing means that the atmosphere at a beach is saturated with water droplets with a high concentration of salt in many cases . Direct sun on the front black face of any iOS device can over heat it rapidly . You will probably feel it uncomfortably hot before the point where the device shuts itself off to prevent battery damage . Even if the device is powered down , you can permanently damage any Lithium Polymer battery in a few hours if the temperature is hot enough . Sand can get in the home button mechanism and may never come out . The 30 pin connector , the headphone jack , a SIM slot are easier to clean and less likely to be functionally impaired than the close tolerances of the glass on glass home button gap . Bright light makes it harder to see the backlit screen and if you are wearing polarized sunglasses , you will see that the display is highly polarized . It 's fun from a science experiment aspect , but bad for reading or color accuracy of the display . I would probably have a <URL> or two with me and bring an umbrella or shade to control the light and direct heat . A ziplock bag also works if you do n't think the closer fitting sleeve is worth spending money on . Depending on your beach some or all of these concerns may be disregarded , but I tried to cover the common beach scenarios . Other than that - keep it cool , heat yourself up and enjoy your iPad on the beach .
In the Finder in Mac OS X , press Command-Shift-G to Go to folder . Type . This will take you to the " Volumes " folder . If your iDevice is mounted as a drive , it will appear here . You can select it and press Command-E to eject it . If it does not appear here , it is not mounted as a drive , and you can simply unplug it . Note that it may or may not appear on your Desktop or in a Finder sidebar depending on your settings , but it should always appear in the folder . On Windows , in the system tray , there is an icon you can click to " Safely Remove Hardware and Eject Media . " Right-click the icon , find the name of your iOS device , and click it to eject it . If it does not appear on this list , it is not mounted as a drive and you can simply unplug it .
Yes ! Orbit - Cmd + Ctrl and click/drag Pan - Cmd + Ctrl + Shift and click/drag Zoom - Two-finger scroll up/down ( no click necessary )
Yes , everything you have described is possible . If you have an Airport Express or other airplay destination on your network , the remote app will allow you to select and control the output location . As seen on <URL> Enjoy !
Yes , you can use any earphones with a 3.5 mm audio jack . I 'm surprised you did not just try it out :) I thought I 'd add some additional background information I just read about in a report on yet another Apple-Samsung patent case , Apple <URL> on an audio jack which has the circuitry to detect the type of headphones plugged in , and I can only assume this is what they actually use in their iPhones .
You will find an up to date list of carriers and frequencies on <URL> . For other countries see <URL> . You can use your iPhones as follows ( <URL> ) : iPhone Quad band GSM/GPRS/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) iPhone 3G In addition to previous : Tri-band 3.6 Mbit/s UMTS/HSDPA ( 850 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) iPhone 3GS In addition to previous : 7.2 Mbit/s HSDPA iPhone 4 quad-band GSM/GPRS/EDGE ( 800 850 900 1800 1900 MHz ) . Quad-band UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 800 850 900 1900 2100 MHz ) ( 800 MHz not yet officially supported by Apple ) iPhone 4S quad-band GSM/GPRS/EDGE ( 800 850 900 1800 1900 MHz ) Quad-band UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 800 850 900 1900 2100 MHz ) ( 800 MHz unannounced ) This means you can use your iPhones on any carrier on the 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz frequencies as a GSM phone , and access to data at the slow GPRS/EDGE speed . For higher speed access you will have to look for carriers who provide the right technologies at the right frequencies . This mean the iPhone will not work on networks operating in the 1700 MHz frequencies and it will not work on 1800MHz 3G ( UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ) networks as it only can use this band for GSM .
It depends on the service order set in System Preferences - > Network . The first one that has a route to the requested endpoint will be used . Click on the wheel icon at the bottom left and choose . Then drag the items into the required order . This is the order on m machine which I do not think I have altered .
With new keyboards , one option to accomplish this turned out the be <URL> It 's a keyboard app that lets you type into the main app , and then find any one of a number of messages to paste later . Nice ! I think there are other keyboards out there providing similar functionality , but this was the first free option I found .
<URL> will allow you do to this ( plus a whole lot more if you wish ) . You can customise a range of actions for each application and assign these to the Apple remote buttons ( this includes both press and press-and-hold ) . You can also define your own custom actions if the built-in ones do n't suit . Nothing came close for me in terms of flexibility and ease of use - I tried both <URL> and <URL> before settling on RB . Personally , I use this to control my XBMC media centre with a range of custom button-presses and use the launch menu to start it up . It works with the white plastic remote too , I 've just got the aluminium one thats shown in the screenshot .
end question
start question
What 's a good Font Manager for OS X ?
<URL> is the app you are looking for . It has activation/deactivation , web preview mode , glyph overviews , collections etc. .
While I 've had multiple good suggestions for programs here I wanted to post my own answer as no one answered with the program <URL> ( it was in a comment by @MaxRied however ) . X Lossless Decoder ( XLD ) is a tool for Mac OS X that is able to decode/convert/play various ' lossless ' audio files . The supported audio files can be split into some tracks with cue sheet when decoding . While confusing and over the top at first the learning curve did n't take too long to get over and in the end it is a very solid program that does everything I need and then some . One word of warning however , it will not re-convert files . So if you have a bunch of 320KBps MP3s and want to convert them to 128KBps MP3s it will refuse to do so . Other than that huge annoyance ( I switched to Max recommended by @TraneFrancks to finish off these files ) it works great .
One of the best applications is <URL> ( 40 $ ) by Red Sweater Software . It supports many blog types ( including Tumblr ) , and allows both HTML and Rich Text editing . I think it also allows editing Wordpress pages and not only blog posts . It handles image uploading , editing of posts and supports multiple blogs . Some of the cons of MarsEdit are its HTML editing shortcuts and macros which are a little uncomfortable and a bit too little . If you 're comfortable with HTML , then the known <URL> text editor can also be used as an editor for blog posts and then you can either copy/paste from there or use a blogging bundle which will let you upload from there . TextMate can also show you live preview of your HTML in a separate window . Of course , being a specialized application , MarsEdit is more feature rich in the blogging sense but TextMate has a better editor ( obviously ) .
Yes , a variety of strange software problems can be fixed by reinstalling OS X. Providing the installer detects an existing install ( which will only not happen if the disk ca n't boot ) your files and settings will be preserved . If you 've made any changes to the system such as modifying a keyboard layout or changing the boot logo , you will need to back these up as they will be wiped .
Apple iPhoto '11 Let 's not forget that <URL> costs $ 15 in the Mac App Store , and that it has processing tools for RAW as well as frequently-updated profiles for working with many makes and models of cameras that produce RAW image files . Google Picasa <URL> is free and supports many RAW formats . Canon Digital Photo Professional version 3.11.26 is compatible with Mac OS X Lion . If you already own an earlier version that came with your Canon camera , you can download the updater from canon.com for free . Otherwise , here is how you can get it : <URL> comes on a CD with a suite of programs called Canon Digital Camera Solutions Disk ver . 38.1 . I recently bought a used Canon Powershot G10 whose seller did not provide the original software sold with a new Canon . So I called up Canon 's customer service , explained that I bought a used Canon , and asked them if I could purchase their tools on CD . They sold me the suite for US $ 20 plus tax and shipping ( it came to $ 27 ) . ... you may purchase the latest Canon Digital Camera Software Solutions disc for your camera through Canon USA 's Customer Support Center at 1-800-828-4040 . Residents of other countries should contact their regional Canon customer support center for further assistance . I installed the whole suite on Mac OS X Lion , then downloaded the latest updates from canonusa.com to make sure they were compatible with Lion . The suite includes Canon Digital Photo Professional , for processing RAW images , a batch-file processing utility called Canon Digital Photo Professional Batch , the Canon Image Browser for general photo management , and Photostitch for making panoramas .
Not free but my favorite is <URL> . I went through a few free ones and ending up buying this on a <URL> special and it was worth every cent . It supports resume , password protected sites , and can even FTP if you need it too . It also allows you to share files with other users on the network . I have to admit , though , since moving to the Mac , my failure rates on downloads without a manager has drastically dropped if you 're on a decent internet connection .
It 's good for avoiding tangles when you 're not using your earbuds , or when you are using them , from preventing you from tearing your earbuds . ( When you 're jogging or whatever . ) That extra clip is the first thing to give when you pull them apart . If that was n't there , the next thing to pull would be the splitter . Then you 'd have half a pair of earbuds .
<URL> supports offline reading of your RSS feed . It will fetch and cache a configurable amount of feed history for you to peruse while you are n't connected to the web . And it 'll look darn good while doing it . ( Can you tell I 'm a fan ? )
<URL> is widely recognised as a quality free alternative to Photoshop in many regards . ... but it 's not considered to be particularly successful in it 's approach to embracing Mac OS X application design ;) If you want something that is n't necessarily free but is at least inexpensive , then there are a number of other programs including <URL> and <URL> available in the Mac App Store . You could always try the cut down <URL> . For a good roundup , see this wonderful blog post from the Ask Different Community Blog for more info : <URL>
I 'd like to point you to the following <URL> . Open up Automater and select " Service " in the " Choose your type for your document " Dialog . Afterwards use the apple-script in the linked answer and you can now run the service via : Finder -- > Services -- > Create new File Setup in Automator : Create new file in service menu of finder :
It depends . If it 's running Mac OS X 10.5.8 " Leopard " or earlier , then you must buy a Snow Leopard Install DVD <URL> ( or barrow it from a fiend ) . You could also <URL> , but it 's the same price , $ 20 USD . Though , Snow Leopard comes through the mail and Lion is sent as a verification code through email . If it 's running Mac OS X 10.6 " Snow Leopard " to Mac OS X 10.6.7 " Snow Leopard " , then you will need to do an Apple Software Update , to update it to 10.6.8 . Click the Apple logo in the top left of the desktop , then select Software Update . If it 's running OS X 10.6.8 " Snow Leopard " , then you will have to update it through the Mac App Store . OS X 10.10 " Yosemite " runs amazingly on my 2009 MacBook Pro , so I 'd strongly recommend updating to Yosemite ( for free ) no matter what you do , do n't let anyone tell you it does n't run well on older hardware , it 's fine . If it 's currently running OS X 10.7 " Lion " or later , then yes . Just boot into Recovery Mode by holding the Option key down at startup . Two images of hard drives will appear , use the arrow keys to select Recovery , press the Enter key to make your selection . Once in Recovery , select Disk Utility and select the hard drive . Then select Erase from the bar and select Erase in the bottom right . After its erased , go back to the main window in Recovery and select Reinstall OS X , then just follow the onscreen instructions . Make sure to update to Yosemite using the Mac App Store afterwards .
<URL> DB Browser for SQLite is a light GUI editor for SQLite databases , built on top of Qt . The main goal of the project is to allow non-technical users to create , modify and edit SQLite databases using a set of wizards and a spreadsheet-like interface .
It 's called Activity Monitor . You can find it in this folder :
Is depends on the kind of editing you need to do . <URL> is on the App Store . Maybe <URL> too ?
I think <URL> may do what you want . I use their FileBrowser for iPad , but I have n't tried NetPortal , which is their iPhone version . They also have a free NetPortalLite version . ( Sorry , I do n't have the rep to include more than one hyperlink . )
<URL> is the app you are looking for . It has activation/deactivation , web preview mode , glyph overviews , collections etc. .
You ca n't talk Eclipse into treating app bundles as files . Mac apps are actually " bundles " , which are special folders , not files . The Finder treats them as files , but anything that uses lower-level file system APIs will see a . app file as the folder it actually is . If you look at the <URL> script on Github , you can see that just making a few plain folders in a specific structure will cause the Finder to treat them as a file .
Oddly , the app I favor the most is <URL> due to the elegance , simplicity and design . It is fairly forgiving for novices but the middle ground is very level so as to allow you to improve without getting totally destroyed . If you have a decent strategy , you can get a lot of play in the middle ground as long as you do n't make whoppers of mistakes . I say oddly because it does n't have many bells or whistles to " teach " the game - lacks opening books , training modes , post game analysis or export functionality . It has beauty and simplicity and I find myself actually playing it because it 's gorgeous and I learn more when I play more . <URL> seems to be stronger for learning , but is not nearly as pretty and I 'm not serious enough to want to play it over Deep Green . It has fabulous end game support , databases , move puzzles and hints . It also exports the games and has a discount on the Mac version so you can take your analysis to the computer which probably makes this the best learning program . You can preview the engine and the feel of the UI <URL> to get a sense of the program . The iPhone app plays a lot like the mac app . It 's a 30 day demo and it 's not as massively strong as Fritz and some of the really bonkers engines out there .
The closest thing I know of is <URL> . HackPorts was developed as a penetration testing framework with accompanying tools and exploits that run natively on Mac platforms . HackPorts is a ' super-project ' that leverages existing code porting efforts , security professionals can now use hundreds of penetration tools on Mac systems without the need for Virtual Machines .
There is a method to change the internal name of a font - so you can see it differently from within an app - but you 'll need to use Terminal , but it is not very hard : Make sure you are on an admin account Install <URL> ( You 'll need to login with your Apple ID for free , I 'm not sure if this is actually necessary , so do it last if the next few steps do n't work . I have Xcode installed so I ca n't tell whether having it makes a difference ) Download <URL> Open Terminal ( from Applications > Utilities ) Type with a space at the end , find the place at which you downloaded the folder at ( in step 3 ) and drag it onto the Terminal Window . Press enter Copy and paste this : Enter your admin password when asked . You wo n't see it being typed it . You 've now installed TTX . Now I will tell you how to change the font name : Type with a space after it , find your font file and drag it onto the Terminal window . Press enter . OS X stores fonts at many places . Check <URL> for more info . Now , in the font directory you just dragged the file from , you will find a new file . Open it in Textedit . Press Cmd + F. Type in in the Find box . You will find something like : Copy the name in the quotes . Press Cmd + F again and paste this in the Find box . In the Replace box , type in your desired Font Name . Click Replace All . Note : If your font has a name that would commonly be used in a font file such as " Glyph " or " Asterisk " you may get some unwanted text replacement and possibly produce an unusable . ttx file . In these cases you should manually scroll through the font file and replace the instances where the name listed . ' Save As ' the file . Leave the name as it is - or you can change it to anything because this is the file name not internal name . Make sure the filename is . Save it in the desired location for the new font . Go back to Terminal . Type with a space after it , find your font file that you just saved and drag it onto the Terminal window . Press enter . You will now find the new file in the same directory . Note . If you want to repeat this with a new file , start with step 8 . More info <URL> ( this is a little bit confusing , but it may help . )
end question
start question
How do I get iTunes to just play one album ?
It 's rather easier than these solutions . Click the icon view beside the search and select the Albums tab at the top so the icons show albums rather than Artists or Composers . Then when you hover over an album you can click " Play Album " to play it . You can also double click the album to see all the songs making sure they are ordered by song number ( if necessary ) . This way you can also by command or shift clicking select multiple albums . Or you can show with the second icon ordered by album by artist . In this view an artist search will help :
Yes , you can add the second Mac once the first has completed . While one is currently uploading , I think the others can only be linked and start viewing .
iTunes starts playing what is currently selected . For me for instance the playlist selected was " Most recently added " , so when I hit the play button on the keyboard , the first song from this list starts to play . The only way I know of to solve your problem is to enable random play in iTunes . This is easily done by clicking the snaked arrow button next to the cover image in the top view . If it 's highlighted blue , random play is on . Quitting iTunes and hitting the play button again will play a random song from the library . Drawback : Whenever you changed that ( because you do n't want to have random play but want to listen to an album ) you have to remind yourself to enable it again before closing it . AFAIK there 's no preference setting for that .
You could create a smartlist that only includes songs with the status Matched , Uploaded and Purchased .
Go to your account settings , delete your iCloud account , reboot , add it again .
Things you can try ( that I have n't tried myself ) , other than <URL> : If you have a 4 digit lockcode on the iPhone , the encryption on iTunes might <URL> . Try the same pin . Also try older pins , if you change it . It could be an old one . Get <URL> , delete <URL> ( may need to jailbreak the phone to be able to see it ) on it and restart . Be aware this will clear all your passwords . Now delete your iTunes encrypted backups and re-sync . <URL> - this is an easy way to remove the lock code , not sure about the encrypt iphone check tho . Probably . Use some <URL> , <URL> to begin with a lot more of hacking . I wo n't get into much detail here because this is n't a simple procedure . You 're on your own . Just wanted to cite it 's possible and that maybe even today the " encryption " is quite fake . Restore from an old unencrypted backup . Yes , this is the closest step to " wipe " . As you already suggested , wipe your phone ( just for the sake of completeness ) . Good luck !
What you refer to as " iTunes mode " is actually a separate application called iTunes . The only way to get back is to relaunch the iPod app . If you have a multitasking-capable device , you can double tap on the home button and the iPod app will be there as it was the most recently used app .
iMore provides a <URL> to restore an old backup onto a new watch that I have summarized below . The first step is to unpair the old watch from your phone . As part of that , a backup of your watch 's information and settings will be created on the phone . Next , pair your new watch following the normal procedures - launch the Apple Watch app , tap Start Pairing , and align the watch in the viewfinder . On the following screen it will state " Your Apple Watch Is Paired . " From here , tap on Restore from Backup , and you should be given the option of the backup you made when unpairing the old watch . Tap on that . You will then need to agree with the terms and conditions , as well as enter your Apple ID username and password . Tap through the remaining screens of setting options , including a passcode , and finally it will begin the process of restoring your backup , which may take several minutes . Once the restore is complete , you will have your new watch set up with all your settings and data .
Sorry for the self-answer , but I found a way to do it quickly using just the iPhone and no third-party software . In iOS 4.3 , do the following : Open Camera.app Click the photo thumbnail to view the photo library Click Camera Roll to view all photos There 's a capsule button at the top that says ' All | Photos | Videos ' . Select videos Press the Export icon - you can now tap on videos to select them before hitting Delete . Not sure why this functionality is not available from Photos.app , but there you go . Thanks for all the other answers .
I searched everywhere for a clean solution . Many solutions that worked for Lion and below no longer worked for Mountain Lion . However , this works and it took me hours to find . Enjoy ! <URL> From the website : In a search for a non-hacky way to disable direct mappings to iTunes for the play/pause/next / previous buttons in the keyboard in OSX , I stumbled across the " Remote control daemon " ( rcd ) . As it turns out , disabling the iTunes launch behavior for these keys is as easy as unloading rcd with the following command :
It 's rather easier than these solutions . Click the icon view beside the search and select the Albums tab at the top so the icons show albums rather than Artists or Composers . Then when you hover over an album you can click " Play Album " to play it . You can also double click the album to see all the songs making sure they are ordered by song number ( if necessary ) . This way you can also by command or shift clicking select multiple albums . Or you can show with the second icon ordered by album by artist . In this view an artist search will help :
Have you upgraded to Lion ? As per <URL> it seems the extra visualizers require 32-bit mode : Right click on iTunes.app in your Applications folder and click " Get Info " . In the window that appears , click " Open in 32-bit mode " at the bottom of the " General " pane . This is a work-around , not a fix , and I have filed a bug report with Apple .
You can connect the iPad directly to your stereo using bluetooth . Or you can use AirPlay to stream audo to your iMac . However you can not record anything while doing this : While the " AirPlay - Bluetooth - HDMI " switch is on , an alert appears if you try to record an Audio Recorder or Guitar Amp Touch Instrument , or if you try to record a sound with the Sampler . You can turn the switch off from the alert . From : <URL>
No , not straight from the iPad . The Camera Roll is like a smart folder : it contains all items that were stored as pictures on the iPad from apps . You ca n't move pictures from there to another album , just like you ca n't move songs from the iTunes library to playlist . However , if you import the pictures on your computer , then delete it from the iPad ( you did n't specify your OS there , but assuming Mac OS X : with iPhoto , it simply asks you whether you 'd like to do so after the import is over ) , syncing the pictures that were in the Camera Roll back onto the iPad will make them appear only in the albums you 've configured on your computer , not in the Roll anymore ( since they were not added from the iPad ) .
According to <URL> , the 3rd gen iPod Touch can be upgraded to iOS 5 . However , you may want to confirm that your iPod is not a 2nd gen version - those can only be upgraded to 4.2.1 . <URL> has the following information to confirm your version ( <URL> ) : iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) features a 3.5-inch ( diagonal ) widescreen multi-touch display and 32 GB or 64 GB flash drive . You can browse the web with Safari and watch YouTube videos with Wi-Fi . You can also search , preview , and buy songs from the iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store on iPod touch . The iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) can be distinguished from iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) by looking at the back of the device . In the text below the engraving , look for the model number . iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) is model A1288 , and iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) is model A1318 . Also , per <URL> - make sure that you 've upgraded to iTunes 10.5 before you begin the upgrade .
In Quicktime Player , go to Preferences . Under " Full Screen " , there is a picture of your screens similar to the Displays pane of System Preferences . If you click on a screen , a picture of the QT Player logo will be overlaid on that screen . The screen that has the logo is the active screen for Full Screen Mode . EDIT : I do n't know if you can still do other things while QT Player is full screen .
I do n't know if this is exactly what you want , but if you open Settings , then click on Safari , then scroll down and click on Advanced , then click on Website Data you will get a list of websites that have stored data . You can click Edit then remove the data from just the sites that you want to remove stored data from .
For each Source/Library item ( Music , Movies , Podcasts ) you want to open with a shortcut , create a new Applescript as follows replacing " Podcasts " with " Music " or " Movies " , and save it with to your ~ / Library/iTunes/Scripts folder ( if this doesn ´ t exist , create it ! ) , giving it an unique name ( like " show podcasts " , " show movies " ) . Next , open " System Preferences " > " Keybaord " > " Keyboard Shortcuts " and select " Application Shortcuts " . Click on the little " plus " button to add a new shortcut with : Now pressing " cmd +2 " ( or whichever shortcut you defined ) while being in iTunes will open the Podcast library item .
I was in this situation once . However I went to the Apple support site , followed what they said , and then filled out the email form . From what I remember they will ask you for what you can make out of the code , and then the serial number of the gift card . This is the link to the email form submission page : <URL> Where it says ' specific request ' select ' my code is scratched or unreadable . ' Proceed to fill in the form as best you can and send it off . I got a response in less that 48 hours , and the answer they gave me allowed me to redeem my card . In answer to your original question , I do n't actually know , but I hope this assistance means you will no longer have a need to refund the card . Hope this helps .
In iTunes select the song and press & #x 2318 ; + I to Get Info . Go to the tab Artwork and press & #x 2318 ; + C to copy the Artwork . Open . Select File & #x 2192 ; New from Clipboard from the menu or press & #x 2318 ; + N Save the file to a custom location . ( , , , , ... )
end question
start question
Can I create a formula to provide a value depending on when a timestamp falls in the day ?
Assuming you have a normal Numbers Date/Time , then a simple statement can be used combined with the function . To add more than just 2 options , nest your statement . Numbers will return the first TRUE value . <URL>
The second form is useful for doing things like and is often aliased to . If you do n't want to rely on functionality and prefer an external command , serves a similar purpose : The whereis utility checks the standard binary directories for the specified programs , printing out the paths of any it finds . Because does n't use but rather the result of it may lead to different results .
I do n't know of any Safari extension doing this but you may use Automator to create a folder action attached to your preferred download folder sorting files according to their extension or kind to various folders . That 's even independent from the browser you usually use . The article <URL> outlines the workflow which sorts * . dmg and pictures : Create the workflow In the Finder , create two folders on the Desktop . Name the first Disk Images and the second My Pictures . Launch Automator ( in your / Applications folder ) and in the workflow template that appears choose Folder Action and click Choose . In the resulting window , click the Folder Action receives files and folders added to pop-up menu , select Other , and navigate to the Downloads folder inside your user folder . Click Choose . Select the Files &amp; Folders library and drag these actions , in order , into the workflow area : Filter Finder Items , Move Finder Items , Get Specified Finder Items , Get Folder Contents , Filter Finder Items , and Move Finder Items . In the first action ( the first instance of the Filter Finder Items action ) , leave the first pop-up set to All . Then , configure the next row of pop-up menus to read File Extension is dmg . In the second action , Move Finder Items , drag the Disk Images folder onto the To : Desktop pop-up menu . In the third action , Get Specified Finder Items , click the Add button and navigate , once again , to the Downloads folder . Click Add . Click this action 's Options button and enable the Ignore this action 's input option . Leave the Get Folder Contents action alone . In the next Filter Finder Items action , leave the first pop-up set to All and then configure the row of pop-up menus to read Kind is Image . Finally , in the last action ( Move Finder Items ) drag the My Pictures folder on top of this action 's To : pop-up menu . Save your workflow and give it a name .
You need add the sound file to , or . ( If you do n't know how to locate that easily , you can search for " sosumi " , and follow the breadcrumbs at the bottom of the finder window . ) The sound file needs to be converted to AIFF or WAV format . Macworld has a <URL> on how to do this using iTunes or garageband . Then , in , it will show up as an option for your system alerts .
You could drag the file into a Safari window and copy the path from the URL bar . Or drag the file into a Plain Text file in Text Edit . ( As you can also do with Terminal . ) EDIT : Safari will only accept certain types . Use a Text Edit file instead .
Based on your updated question , the answer is no ; there 's not a standard , built-into iOS way to go to the end of a file . Individual apps are able to create custom gestures or menu commands to perform that function , so it might exist in specific apps but there 's no standard way that works with every app .
If the song/sound you want to use is n't already in your iTunes library , add it to your iTunes library first . If you want to use just a part of the song/sound , right click it , select " Get Info " , then " Options " tab , and enter a start and stop time there . Remember , ringtones ca n't be over 40 seconds ! On the File menu , select " Convert " > " Create AAC Version " . If you do n't have this option , go to Edit , Preferences , General tab , and click the Import Settings button . Make sure the import setting is set to " iTunes Plus " ( AAC ) . This will create a new file in your iTunes library . Delete it from your iTunes library now , but be sure to check " keep file " in the delete dialog so the file itself is n't removed , just the library entry . Navigate to where the file was created on disk , somewhere like Rename the file from to Drag and drop this file into the Ringtones folder of your iTunes ( or , just double-click it and iTunes will handle it automatically ) . Sync your iPhone . Make sure that " Sync Ringtones " is selected in the phone sync options ( mine was off by default ) . After syncing , you can select your new ringtone in Settings , Sounds at the Custom section at the top .
<URL> Time Capsule , Mac OS X v10 .6.3 or later : How to transfer your back up from an existing Time Capsule to a new one For this process , you should leave your computer in the same room as the Time Capsules , or use one Ethernet cable to connect your Mac to the Ethernet port on the existing Time Capsule , then use another Ethernet cable to connect from the existing Time Capsule to the new Time Capsule . Configure your Time Capsule for your network . See the documentation that came with your Time Capsule for information about setting it up on your network . Open Time Machine preferences in System Preferences . Slide the Time Machine switch to Off . Open a Finder window . Locate both Time Capsules listed in the SHARED section of the navigation pane on the left of the Finder window . Note : If you do not see your Time Capsules in that section , choose Preferences from the Finder menu and make sure " Connected servers " is checked under SHARED . Select the name of the new Time Capsule in the navigation pane . The default name is " Time Capsule xxxxxx " , with xxxxxx being the last digits of the ID printed on the bottom of the Time Capsule . Mount the volume by double-clicking the name of the volume in the Finder window 's main section . The default drive name is " Data " . Open a new Finder window by pressing Command-N , or by choosing File > New Finder Window . Repeat the previous 2 steps with the other Time Capsule , to mount it . Drag your backup disk image from the current Time Capsule to the new Time Capsule . This can take some time to complete because your entire backup will be copied . Open Time Machine preferences in System Preferences . Click " Select Disk ... " , then select your new Time Capsule . Perform a Time Machine back up . After the back up , you can remove the Ethernet cables if desired and configure your wireless network to your liking .
It appears Spotlight does not make use of <URL> . Extra menu items added by Skype also fail to appear in the Spotlight preview . It is worth providing <URL> asking for this functionality to be added . It would greatly improve Spotlight . Context Menu in Contacts.app : Context Menu of Contact in Spotlight :
If you are using Keynote 6 then all you have to do is take an existing theme , make the modifications that you want then choose Save Theme from the file menu It well then ask what you want to do with your shiny new theme
The best way to do this is to create a chroot jail for the user . I 'll clean up the answer here when I get home but I posted the solution on my blog . <URL> Below are most of the instruction from the above post . First , you should create the new user in Workgroup Admin and either assign them access privileges for SSH via Server Admin or assign them to a group that has SSH access privileges . Further discussion is below . From the Terminal , start off right . Every additional new user added will then be something along the lines of the following . Every folder it the path to the chroot jail must be owned by . I do n't think it matters what group the folder is in . What I did above was to backup change ownership of the root directory to change permissions of the root directory to 755 create a chroot folder create a user folder inside the chroot folder create a folder inside the user folder that user can modify set ownership and permissions Now to edit to the following . This creates a chroot jail that when the user logs in will drop them into the folder , in that folder is a folder they can add things to . If you want to create a Group in Workgroup Admin for ' Chroot Users ' then add the new users that you created in Workgroup Admin to the Group you wo n't have to keep editing the file . Instead of the above , add the following . Make sure you add the ' Chroot Users ' group to the SSH access ACL in Server Admin . To test whether the above is working , issue the following from the terminal .
You can right-click ( control-click ) on the folder name in the Titlebar of the Finder window and select a parent folder and or you can expose the Path Bar in Finder ( View > Show Path Bar ) and select a parent folder from there . Also from the Sidebar you can right-click ( control-click ) on the Favorites name and select Open Enclosing Folder , although this opens another Finder window whereas the previous suggestions stay within the same Finder window . Additionally one should become familiar with the keyboard shortcuts of Finder which one can see shown on each menu in Finder , particularly the Go menu . Like , Command -- Up Arrow as mentioned by Ivan Chau in the OP comments . Note : See Finder shortcuts in : <URL>
The solution is actually simpler than that . In Calendar preferences , click " Default Calendar " and scroll to the bottom and select " Selected Calendar . " Now , whichever calendar you have highlighted in the sidebar becomes the calendar in which you are working .
Here is what we know : The iPhone 5c is for sale unlocked in the US at launch . The iPhone 5s is not for sale unlocked in the US at launch . It is unlocked at launch in many countries including <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. . . The last phone launch had no 5c / 5s comparison ( unless you want to ignore the 5c and assume the 5s is handled identically to the 5 at launch . ) The iPhone 5 launch was <URL> and <URL> , you <URL> a <URL> . I would recommend you get confirmation that T-Mobile will unlock their contract-free but locked phone after a fixed amount of time or money , and get that in writing before you buy a US phone that is n't unlocked if you really need an unlocked iPhone . In informal discussions today , I was told that two months of service needs to be maintained before you can ask for an unlock , but I did n't get it in writing and ca n't find any mention of it on T-Mobile 's web site . Realize that any mobile carrier has limited devices and wo n't really want to sign up someone that will increase their churn rate and not be a " paying subscriber " when it comes time for them to report their quarterly subscriber counts .
Hold down your finger in the address bar to get the little magnifier to show up , finally drag your finger to the right or left to get to the part of the url that you want to edit .
It 's possible to do that with AppleScript . If you 're familiar with this technology , you should just browse iCal and Mail respective dictionary . If not , that 's the occasion to become familiar ! <URL> Here 's a very basic script you could use ( tested on Snow Leopard only , but should work fine on Lion as well ) : In order to use it easily in Mail , you should save it in ( create folders if they do n't exist ) and activates the Scripts menubar item in preferences of AppleScript Editor . Here 's the result when you 're in Mail : You can also use a productivity tool to launch your script . There are plenty of them out there but I personally use Keyboard Maestro &amp; Alfred . There 's a lot of room for improvement . By example , you could set a default alarm , insert it in a given calendar ... In order to improve it yourself , use the AppleScript dictionary : it 's the best reference you could find . However , those links may be useful as well , as they provide many examples ( some are maybe too old ) : <URL> &amp; <URL> .
I think if the rest of the laptop is still in good condition , then replace it . For one thing , it leaves a bit of a bad impression with a potential buyer . You 're giving them a machine which works only with the plug and if they wants to use it on battery they 'll have to go out and work it out with Apple himself . Personally I 'd expect a pretty hefty price reduction for that . If you replace it on the other hand , you can clearly state so in the description ( eg " battery was recently replaced for $ 120 and should now allow you to work for a full X hours while not plugged in " or whatever ) which actually increases the price and the value of the laptop .
If you are getting some strange error messages in your Terminal windows when they first open , that likely indicates a problem with your Terminal preferences . Try removing ( or just renaming ) the Terminal preferences file ( ) and then restarting the Terminal application . <URL> If you still have a problem , then look at what you have in your shell dot files : , , and the like . If you ca n't figure out what the problem is , try removing ( or just renaming ) those dotfiles . Another place to look for problems is the file under . This is the file that stores the default settings for Terminal windows . If all that fails , use Disk Utility to repair the permissions for Terminal . <URL>
I was in this situation once . However I went to the Apple support site , followed what they said , and then filled out the email form . From what I remember they will ask you for what you can make out of the code , and then the serial number of the gift card . This is the link to the email form submission page : <URL> Where it says ' specific request ' select ' my code is scratched or unreadable . ' Proceed to fill in the form as best you can and send it off . I got a response in less that 48 hours , and the answer they gave me allowed me to redeem my card . In answer to your original question , I do n't actually know , but I hope this assistance means you will no longer have a need to refund the card . Hope this helps .
Extended attributes is what you 're looking for . xattr will allow you to view and modify extended attributes at the command line . Look at the man page for more details , but in brief you can write one with the following command xattr - w com.foo.myattribute " A bunch of data " / path/to/file
end question
start question
Is there a way to protect email using passcode in iPhone ?
You will have to jailbreak your iPhone to password-protect the Mail app . Sorry , there 's no other way . :-) I ran across <URL> , which has three apps for password protecting iOS apps . Lockdown Pro FolderLock Locktopus All are paid apps . <URL> mentions an app called iAppLocker . It is free . Hope this helps you !
It is not possible to manage the feeds inside <URL> . Nevertheless it will synchronize all changes made to feeds within Google Reader . So if you want to rename a feed , open the webpage of Google Reader and go to the preferences . In the prefs , choose the Abonnements tab ( at least this is the German headline ) and rename the feed . If you now head back to the Reeder.app and synchronize your feeds the changes will be reflected and the feed will be renamed . Please remember that this workaround will only work until July 1 , because Google is shutting down the Reader service .
If " Put Back " is disabled for a multiple-item selection it means that ( at least ) one of the items selected does n't have its original location information stored in the Trash directory 's . DS_Store file . Though it 's less than ideal , try multi-selecting subsets of the files looking for groups that you can " Put Back " en masse before resorting to manual filing for the remaining files .
Is this what you 're looking for ? <URL> : Disable Autosave and Versions on Lion - Setting Go to System Preferences > General Untick " Restore windows when quitting and re-opening apps " . Then reboot .
Two possible answers ... Assuming you 've not actively deleted them from iTunes as well as from your iPhone ... Upgrade to iTunes 10.x if you have n't already Plug your iPhone into your Mac , open iTunes , sync it . Click on the iPhone in the side bar and go to the Apps tab You 'll see that some apps are checked and others are not . This is an indicator of whether or not they 're installed on the device . Pretty sure this got introduced in iTunes 10.x ( hence the first step ) Assuming you do n't delete your old emails ... ( e.g. Archive in GMail ) The iTunes store should have emailed you summaries of the apps you 've purchased ( even the free ones ) shortly after their ' purchase ' , so , if you have an email account where you 've kept those emails , you could search through them to get a list of each app you 've purchased from the iTunes store .
For starters , encrypting your Home folder using FileVault ( in the Security Preferences pane ) is always a good idea . You might notice a bit of a performance hit ( some people say they do , others do n't notice a difference ) , but the tradeoff of additional security can give you some extra peace of mind . As far as an iPhone-esque " wipe memory after [ x ] failed login attempts " function , the OS does n't have anything like that built in , so you 'd need to search out a 3rd party solution . I do n't have any recommendations offhand for that , but likely someone else here could point you in the right direction .
As far as I know , the only way to do this is to jailbreak and use a Cydia app called <URL> It allows you to configure the behavior of the camera button that appears on the lock screen . You can set any app to be activated by that button . See also the <URL> Settings screen : This hack will probably not work in iOS 5.1 . However , this is unconfirmed . I will update this answer when I do update and jailbreak iOS 5.1 . Besides this hack , there is no other way to change the behavior of the camera button on the lock screen .
You may be able to make use of keyboard combinations by using the ALT or possibly the Windows Key . Example to Copy : Use ALT C or Windows Key C.
By default there is n't a shortcut to move an email to a specific folder . You can use to choose the folder . However , you can create an Applescript and then map that to a shortcut through System Preferences > Keyboard . <URL> ( <URL> is the original source if you would like to learn more ) . You can save the file wherever you 'd like , but the default Outlook scripts are saved in : Note : as of Office 11 SP2 , this location has been changed to : To create the shortcut , open up the Keyboard Shortcuts panel , and under Application Shortcuts hit + . It will give you a list of applications to choose from ( Outlook 2011 ) , and then for the menu title make sure you choose the name of the name of the script as it appears in the menu .
No , there is no way to sort on size in iPhoto . From your context I guess you mean filesize . In iPhoto , size means the dimensions on the Photo ( length by breadth , measured in pixels ) - see the Export dialogue , for instance . iPhoto is all about the images and not the files that contain them , so I 'm not surprised . It 's a $ 15 app , you get a lot , but not everything .
On a general level , I 'd personally secure a jailbroken phone by re-enabling the code signing restrictions of iOS , ensure sandbox requirements are upheld and turn off all remote access . Furthermore , disabling all root accounts and choosing secure passwords for all remaining accounts that your specific jailbreak process creates or modifies would be prudent . Apple has teams of people to police third party apps , set up sandboxes , audit security , etc ... When you jailbreak , you take responsibility for all of those activities which carries a large technical burden to know what to check in the first place and then how to secure things . At some point , this exercise becomes a bit metaphysical - Do you trust Apple to engineer and watch the device ? Do you trust yourself to be up on securing unix systems ( <URL> is a fabulous book ) ? Do you trust the jailbreak to document what changes it has made and allow you the control over security you desire ? There are clearly times when a jailbroken phone ( in the hands of a knowledgable operator ) can be more secure than Apple 's current iOS if it patches a vulnerability that you need to have closed now and not when Apple patches it - but for most , sticking as close to Apple 's configuration as possible is the best plan from a security stance .
iOS does not provide a shortcut for skipping directly to the bottom of documents , but there is a reasonable alternative , if you 're not already aware of it : scrolling views in iOS respond to swipe frequency , scrolling more quickly the more quickly and frequently you swipe the screen . While swiping a long document , email , or webpage , try several long , quick swipes in rapid succession : you should notice the scrolling speed accelerate accordingly . This is n't nearly as elegant as a tap shortcut , but does let you quickly skip to the bottom of a long view .
Instead of clicking on the " Confirm Faces " button , simply select all the photos that match ( using shift-click or any other method ) and then drag them to the space above the grey bar that says " John may also be in the photos below " . This has the affect of bulk confirming your selection as being John .
This is a feature apple brought with the lastest OS X : OS X Yosemite . OS X Yosemite is still a beta and will be released publicly in fall 2014 .
There is no a way to do this in Xcode . It must be related to the project or workspace . It even does this if you deselect the target . It sounds like what you need is a text editor and not an IDE like XCode since XCode is built for OS X and iOS development primarily . You may want to try <URL> for free , or it 's purchasable counter part BBEdit . If your doing C/C + + , Python or PHP work , you may want to try some of the other <URL> products like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . There is also <URL> , with it 's many plugins , the heavy favorite amongst many developers .
As iMessage stands today , this can not be done . Just as you ca n't block a number or email from sending you an iMessage - there is no technical way to get others to not send you a group message ( other than by exerting social pressure to exclude you from further communications ) . I have n't been able to find anything playing on my phone , and several forum posts suggest that it ca n't be done : On <URL> , sla252 writes ( November , 2011 ) : Just got off the phone with Apple tech support . They admitted there is no way to remove yourself from an iMessage group chat . The tech guy says the best thing we can do is go to <URL> There 's also a <URL> in which huntard713 suggests ( October , 2011 ) : Settings-Messages . Turn group messaging off . It 's now November 2011 and I ca n't find this setting on my iPhone , and this was in response to a slightly different problem ( about who sees the other participants in a group iMessage , so I do n't know how effective this . I 'm sorry this does n't really answer your question ; for now at least , it looks like you ca n't leave a group iMessage .
There are still unexposed preferences for changing the default fonts and font sizes : Another option is to add a rule like this to the default CSS file that can be seleced in Preferences > Advanced > Style sheet : It makes and elements like pre and code default to Menlo .
I do n't know that you 'll find a free one , because it costs money to maintain a server , the server in which you need to use with some software set up to communicate with the Apple Push Notification Service ( " APNS " ) . We use <URL> ( link goes to homepage , <URL> an iTunes App Store Link ) at work in order to send Monitoring ( NAGIOS ) notifications to our phones . It 's a $ 3 app , but it 's also infinitely flexible . It gives you an e-mail address you can use to just shoot notifications too , but it also offers an API you can use to do a lot of special things with . More details if requested after you check out Zac 's site . ( Zac is the developer/maintainer/operator of Prowl app and it 's associated server backend . )
<URL> including <URL> is a collection of useful scripts that you can run from the Finder or the command line . Of course they all use iTunes to process data , but you might find it more convenient than having to use iTunes ' GUI and mouse commands to convert files .
Depending on what you are trying to do with the link , it may be sufficient to drag it . If you click and drag a link in Safari , you can drop it in many places and get the desired functionality . For example , if you drop it in a text editor , it will drop the link URL ( for plain text ) or a formatted link using the title from the page . If you drop it on your desktop , you will get a webloc file . If you drop it on the Safari URL bar or tab , that tab will load the link . If you really need to copy the link , one possibility is to use spotlight as a easy-access text field . Start dragging the link , hit Command + space ( or whatever you have it set to ) to pop up spotlight , drop it in the search field , and copy .
end question
start question
Should I be worried about my iPhone overheating ?
Yes and no . The newer iOS devices have internal temperature sensors and will let you know when the internal temperatures are so high that damage is of concern . You basically get locked out of the device until it 's cool enough to run again . As long as the sensor is working , it is safe to use the device up until it shuts itself off . This protection should cover you from charging or operating the device and causing harm to the components in the short term as well as drastic long term damage to the battery . If you are concerned about the <URL> - then yes , do worry about temperature . At 0 ° C - you can expect to lose between 2 and 6 % of the capacity per year depending on the average charge in the battery ( the lower is at 40 % average charge - the higher is 100 % average charge ) . If the temperature is 25 ° C - these losses jump to 4 % to 20 % capacity loss . If you store/use the phone for one year at 40 ° C which most people would consider very hot to hold - the losses in capacity are 15 % to 40 % annually . Charging the battery this hot or hotter is even worse for the health of the battery . So , a few times of limited use under 40 ° C should n't be of concern , but leaving it in a very hot car ( > 50 ° C ) can be very damaging if it 's charging or there for hours or days . Whenever you can keep it cooler , and not fully charged for long periods of time , your battery will degrade less over time . You can weigh the need to use the battery when warm with the eventual replacement cost of $ 79 if you should ever just need a battery swapped out by Apple .
It wo n't matter as far as the software goes since Lion runs the migration script one time only on your Snow Leopard data whether you migrate it in from a backup or it 's there when you do the upgrade to Lion . From a human standpoint , I would encourage you to make a " test " account ( pick a different short name to prevent conflict or confusion when migrating your " real " account later ) Updating and testing Lion lets you build confidence the Lion is working on your repaired hardware . Run Snow Leopard updates to 10.6.6 at least to get the App Store if needed Install Lion Run all updates Test Lion in the test user . Once you 're happy it works , migrate in your user data . There 's no right or wrong here - so do whatever makes the most sense to you . You 've had a rough spell with the first upgrade / hardware failure - no need to over complicate things unless you really feel more steps is better .
Yes . I 've done this many times . The iCloud restore process deposits the sandboxed saved application data , but not the application package itself . As a second step , you can sign into the store to re-download the apps ( or connect to iTunes to transfer the apps ) so that it matches the data , but I see no reason why you ca n't get at the data using whatever tool can read the filesystem such as a jailbreak or <URL> .
<URL> say to keep it for troubleshooting and/or if you need to send it in for warranty service : <URL> " 2x1GB is worth so little so you 're better off keeping it for troubleshooting purposes . " <URL> " I would hold on to the memory ; if you ever need to take it in for service , it 's better to have the original memory in it . " " Keep them for warranty " <URL> " Apple guidelines are that if you do have 3rd party hardware installed , they wo n't service it . "
You can save all the app data to migrate to another iOS device at a later date by backing the iPhone up to iTunes or setting up a free iCloud account . This will nicely complement your existing plan in case you forget something until after you turn in the phone . You can restore your backup on to a friend 's device long enough to retrieve that additional data and then erase the device . As long as you maintain the iTunes backup on the computer or iCloud access - your backup will be waiting until you get another iOS device to load the backup . Here are some other apps you may have used occasionally and want to transfer to your Mac : voice memos can be imported to iTunes call history , SMS messages and voicemail ( using an app like <URL> ) If you have a good backup , you can feel better about having the phone erase all content and settings so you give it back clean and with no personal data just in case your company does n't do a great job sanitizing the device before re-issuing it to someone else .
The mute-setting does not transfer from the phone to the watch .
Set up Time Machine the first time you start you Mac , Set up Software Update so that your system is always up to date . A shutdown once in a while should clean most of little garbage but you will have to perform it anyway with some software updates . and Never log in with administrative privileges unless you have a serious reason to do so .
Under Settings / iCloud you 'll see a big red button labeled as Delete Account . Contrary to what it appears , it wo n't actually delete the account , nor your Apple ID , it will only delete the iCloud 's content from your device . So , to change the device 's iCloud account just delete the current one and then log in appropriately .
Yes , the device can communicate with Find my iPhone over Wi-Fi . Find my iPhone uses the currently available network connection , regardless of whether that be Wi-Fi or cellular . The GPS is still used to obtain location information along with Wi-Fi data and the location is sent over Wi-Fi to Find my iPhone .
Sounds to me like you need to identify your Mac model more than anything else . Give a try <URL> Once you know your precise model , you may want to go to <URL> to identify the precise piece number you 're looking for .
There is no reason this should not work . Assuming your model supports iOS 7 of course . I 'd like to be able to tell you more . But there is just not much to say . The lock to a certain provider is not affected by an upgrade to iOS 7 . Provider settings will just be the same as well .
All of the battery and power usage information ( including approximately how much power applications and certain system processes use over time ) is stored in and . This data is both used to aid in the calculation of battery percentage and to unmask power-hungry applications . Apple 's algorithm for battery percentage is based on a number of factors : the maximum capacity of the battery ( known based on the battery that the iOS device was manufactured with ) , the remaining capacity of the battery ( calculated based on <URL> ) , power usage over time ( stored in ) , and current power usage ( calculated based on <URL> ) . This data is all put together to extrapolate an estimated remaining capacity which iOS displays as the battery percentage . When the iOS device is in a different mode other than iOS ( such as <URL> or <URL> ) , it does not store or read any information from the database ; it uses the direct method of determining the capacity of its <URL> : simply the Voltage that the battery is currently outputting . Take a look at a <URL> , and you may wish to read <URL> .
So it sounds like this is likely a known issue , as described by <URL> article in the UK Guardian . In case anyone else comes across this and is curious about some of the symptoms I 've seen , here is a bit of info that might be useful : I had my phone go from 90 % charge to 60 % charge in 90 minutes while in airplane mode and without using the phone ( no apps running , no location services being used , no iPod usage ) . The phone gets quite warm when the battery is draining . Much more so than I experience when doing anything else . Given the behavior , I 'd guess that it gets into some mode where an app gets out of control and is fully pegging the CPU , even though as far as can be determined , nothing is/should be running . This may be a red herring , but my phone wo n't sync . I do n't know if this is related , but doing either a restore or trying to sync with iTunes while connected to a MBP fails . I can only get things to work with " Transfer Purchases " . I sync fine with my iPad running iOS5 , so I do n't think the problem is on the iTunes side . This may be an unrelated problem ( though I hope it is n't as there is a chance I 'll get a fix for the battery problem ) . Hope this helps others who run into a similar problem and are trying to troubleshoot it . I think the easiest way of testing is using airplane mode and making sure location services are not running and if you are still seeing rapid battery drain , there is no good reason that should be happening in that mode , no matter how you have your phone set up . NOTE : And now <URL> by Apple .
Once you 've completed the registration , all the information you 've filled up , will be sent to Apple with your iDevice / Computer 's Serial Number . Having an Apple Id associated to a Device is necessary for the AppleCare Protection Plan , but , if you purchased the AppleCare at the same time as your Device / Computer , the Protection Plan will be automatically registered , being unnecessary for you to do so . The information you fulfill and submit is useful in other ways , using Autofill in Safari , for instance , or enable the possibilty of using the Remind me of-doing-something when I get Home of the iPhone 4S . Therefore , if you want to sell your Mac or iDevice , you could just make a clean install to get rid of all that info . Not deleting it will just cause privacy / security issues .
So it 's been a long time since I originally posted this question . I did n't update my RAM ( although I 'm thinking about it ) , but I changed my hard drive to a Samsung SSD . The change is radical . The computer is not slow at all anymore . There are no more " freezing " , and it takes exactly 15 seconds to boot , instead of something like 1 minute or more . Any application opens almost instantly . It seems like I just bought my mac . If you want to speed up your mac ( or PC ) , you should definitely buy an SSD . I also did a clean install and copied whatever I needed from a backup . As I said , I 'm thinking of adding some RAM . I currently have 4GB but I want to buy 8GB or 16GB . I 'll let you know then , if it works or not . Please upvote this answer so that everyone can see it !
You could create a smartlist that only includes songs with the status Matched , Uploaded and Purchased .
1 ) That entirely depends on what you want to do . There are a bunch of app recommendation discussions here based around games , productivity , etc. . Rather than rehash them , I 'd suggest searching those out . 2 ) Plug it into a USB port on your computer . The phone also comes with a wall adapter for the USB cable so you can charge it from a wall socket . 3 ) Do n't stick it in the oven or the freezer and you should be fine .
If you install the X11 subsystem , it will only run when you have an X11 program running . Much the same as when installing the JVM - that will only run when you run a Java program .
It looks like the TexturePacker program includes the ability to process images from the command-line , which you could then batch process with a script . You 'll first want to install the utility by clicking Install Command Line Tool under the TexturePacker menu in the app . Then I 'd suggest having a look at the <URL> , which includes the command-line parameters for most of the options in the app . Have a look at that , and see if you can get the actions you need on the command-line . If you need help turning those into a batch processing script , I 'd suggest coming back and amending your question with the specifics .
In iTunes , you can opt back out of sharing details by opening the preferences and selecting the store preferences tab .
end question
start question
Can I tell iPhoto to store photos in one directory within the library ?
No . iPhoto does not allow you to dictate the internal storage scheme . However , the export function does have an option to export the original file , so you can avoid the re sampling and/or format conversion if that is enough to stick with what you have . Additionally , Aperture and iPhoto can use the same storage , so you could get aperture and do the following ; convert the storage of any photos you want to folders and then save the library . continue to use iPhoto for convenient tasks and iPhoto will work with the aperture store locations . do all imports in aperture when you want the originals stored in specific folders . You can use Lightroom , PhotoMechanic or Aperture which all allow whatever folder based storage of photos you prefer .
If you see a 3G at the top left it means that you are in an area which does not have 4G support . When you are in an area with 4G ( or , on Verizon , LTE ) you will see that in the top-left corner instead .
Photos does not actually move the files or duplicate them when importing from an existing iPhoto or Aperture library . It simply creates <URL> to the files in their original location from the new Photos library . See how <URL> on Apple 's site . More on hard links from <URL> : A hard link is simply a reference to some data on disk . Think of a file as a combination of a name and a pointer to some data . Deleting a file really means deleting the name portion of that duo . When there are no more names pointing to a particular piece of data disk , then that disk space can be reused . " You can delete your Aperture library without any problems , however you will no longer be able to use Aperture ( unless you set up a new library ) . Any changes made in your existing Aperture library will not appear in Photos , and vice-versa . Basically the actual image exists somewhere on the disk , and there are two pointers to the image ( one from the old library and one from the new library ) . So long as at least one of those pointers exists , the data is kept . But when the last pointer is removed ( i.e. the old iPhoto library itself is removed , then the image is removed from the Photos library ) , the data is also removed .
Just type this command into Terminal . With zero arguments it 'll print the names and values of variables in the environment . Alternative with a bit more typing :
You can only manually add photos to photostream from iPhoto or Aperture not from the iOS device currently , So you 'd need to sync with iPhoto and manually add to photostream through that .
In iTunes , go to the iTunes Store tab , and click on your account in the top right corner , as shown . After typing your password , you will see this page . Click ' Change Country or Region ' , and change it . All done ! Note : if you have any iTunes Store credit , you will have to spend all of it before it lets you switch countries .
Navigate to ( e.g. use & #x 2318 ; + & #x 21E7 ; + G. ) Then , in list view hold & #x 2325 ; while clicking the triangle . This will show all subdirectories of a certain folder . By default , you 'll do n't see hidden files/directories . To show hidden files type the following commands in the : You can use the value in the command to unto this action .
In iPhoto , turn Photo Stream off then on . Go to Preferences > Photo Stream . Uncheck " Enable Photo Stream " . Close the preferences window . Click Photo Stream in the left-hand navigation pane and confirm there are no photos . Turn Photo Stream back on in preferences ( check " Enable Photo Stream " ) . After a few seconds , iPhoto will start to download all the photos again . Depending on the number of photos , and your bandwidth , it may take awhile .
iPhoto supports sharing of albums ( including synchronising of comments , and name/face tagging ) with Facebook . This allows you to select a group of photos , and either put them into a Facebook album or post direct to a wall . If you synchronise with a Facebook album , then iPhoto will perform a 2 way sync and pull the new pictures down locally for offline storage . If you are worried about Privacy , you can always create an account just for this and really lock it down . If even works on photos of girls with seemingly impossible sized teeth : Other than Facebook , sharing options are more limited . Apple used to offer the MobileMe gallery service , but that is now not open to new customers and will be turned off in the coming months . There is limited support for Flickr ( believe it was better in '09 than in ' 11 , which is weird ) , but to get anything close to the Facebook levels of deep integration you will have to get happy with some scripting and automation to ( for example ) run a script after each import to automatically copy the contents of the last import to Flickr etc. . <URL> , but non of them are as self-contained as Facebook sync , and require other tools and software to create a more complicated workflow , but it is possible and if you are a Flickr fan the extra effort may make it worthwhile As a final option , you can still happily use your Picassa Web Albums , and just not use the local application , <URL> has an accepted answer on syncing iPhoto to Picassa .
There is no default mac app store wish list , all though , there are some 3 party applications and websites that allow you do track apps prices and add them to a wishlist . One of them is : <URL> .
I tried uninstalling some applications , and files in these folders or the corresponding folders in were sometimes deleted and sometimes not : ( deleted for most applications ) Files in these folders were n't deleted for any of the applications I tested with : For example Kindle books or the database for notes in JustNotes were not deleted . You can see what files are accessed by uninstalld with and search for support files with . If you want to uninstall applications more completely , it 's probably safe to just delete the whole sandbox containers in .
You can add files and folders to the exclusion list - this only prevents future backups from copying those files . You can script these exclusion lists with terminal in Lion using . You can delete all versions of files and folders using the Time Machine interface . This is a somewhat manual practice . Apple does n't support ( there 's no built in setting ) to set an arbitrary time limit for backups . Once the drive fills , TimeMachine will delete enough backups to start the current backup and then warn you that files have been deleted . It will do the deletion silently if you do n't ask to be warned in the preference pane . You have to monitor the drive if you ca n't afford Time Machine automatically deleting files when it needs more room .
First option , there are some excellent services that provide online backup solutions for a reasonable price . Two examples are <URL> and <URL> . The advantage is that you can set it and forget it , and it will back up all your files ( with options for some things you might want to exclude ) . Another option is using Dropbox . You can move your iPhoto Library from your Pictures folder to the Dropbox folder and alias it to the original location ( drag using ⌘ option to make an alias instead of a copy ) . If you do n't alias it , iPhoto should just ask you where the library is stored when you relaunch it anyway . I do n't really think of services like Flickr as backup , they 're more of an online photo organizer , but yes they can be used that way too . There is no synchronization , so you have to upload your updated files manually .
Download <URL> and use its rebuild function . ( In Library Manager it 's the FIle - > Rebuild command ) This will create an entirely new library . It will then copy ( or try to ) your photos and all the associated metadata and versions to this new Library , and arrange it as close as it can to what you had in the damaged Library . It does this based on information it finds in the iPhoto sharing mechanism - but that means that things not shared wo n't be there , so no slideshows , books or calendars , for instance - but it should get all your events , albums and keywords , faces and places back . Because this process creates an entirely new library and leaves your old one untouched , it is non-destructive , and if you 're not happy with the results you can simply return to your old one .
Unfortunately , the answer is no : When you turn on iCloud Photo Library on your iOS device or Mac , your photos and videos will upload after you connect to the Internet with Wi-Fi and your battery is charged . <URL> [ emphasis mine ]
Yes . That is possible in iOS 10 or later version ( I think ) . However to do that simply you have to turn off a specific option provided in Notes settings . Method Goto Settings - > Notes Then turn off Save Media to Photos . That will solve your problem .
File > Export > Export Unmodified Original ... will export a full size image to the folder of your choice .
Here 's my copy , hope it helps . <URL> PS : I 'm going to remove it next week , so be quick !
It is not possible to browse the App Store . But if you have a link , such as <URL> , then you can view the app description in your browser .
Not at the moment , but when iOS 7 is released later , the wishlist feature will be available using a button in the corner of the app ( <URL> )
end question
start question
Which books should I read to use and understand Mac OS well ?
I was in the same position 3/4 years ago and went ahead and loaned <URL> ( Pogue , David . <URL> ) . It introduced all basic things what an imaginary OS X Snow Leopard manual could had included , albeit it is n't written in a conventional manual style . It is good for OS X newbies , as I was , because it explains even some rather elementary features/operations . The Missing Manual does n't cover Windows vs. OS X in a too great detail , which is , in my opinion , good thing as it makes you learn OS X from the ground up and makes you work with your operating system more intuitively ( ie . you do n't think Windows operations first and then translate them to Mac OS operations , but rather think of how things are done in the Mac OS straight away ) . The downside was that the basic aspects of OS X were rather easy to learn with 10 + years of experience of other operating systems . It also introduced the majority of bundle apps , of which some were uninteresting to me ( like iChat ) . The book was relatively fast to skim through . The best part was the 6-page keyboard shortcut appendix to which I returned more times than any other chapter . I can recommend the book -- perhaps not to be bought , but to be read . If your local library has it in its collection , it 's worth a visit . Note that OS X Lion is due to be released later in this month . I strongly recommend to hold back buying the book now : either wait for a massive price drop or buy the book used ; or wait for Lion books to land , if you 're about to upgrade .
No , because of completely different executable-architectures . Only if you 're willing to recompile them for OSX and they 're Darwin based .
I would n't recommend a full restore , assuming it 's even possible ( Apple can sometimes be a bit funky about system releases on new machines ) . What you should do is a home directory migration , which I believe you can do from your time machine backup with Migration Assistant when you set up the new machine . What you want to be careful to do to be as seamless as possible is make sure your new user account has the same shortname as your existing one . That should clear up any snafus you might have with migrating Eclipse as well ( I think I saw a related issue for Eclipse on Super User that suggested this . )
Open terminal and try the following ; putting the path of your new directory behind the / : - R means recursively change the permissions of all files in the directory , with the arguments ( o + rw ) :
My question was solved by AllInOne : Download BBEdit . The time to search and replace went down from 1 hour + to about five seconds .
I used Open Office , it does the job ok . No crashes , quite feature complete . However if you really do n't want to pay anything for an office suite , I 'd go for Google Docs . If you do want to pay , then definitely go for iWork . It 's the only one that 's fully integrated with OS X ( especially if you have Lion ) .
I would say that the only damage caused by a cigarette to the aluminum itself would be cosmetic . Clearly , the pebbled surface will trap nicotine and ash on the Aluminum . I suspect that Apple <URL> their unibody parts - and if so , that creates a hard , durable layer of aluminum oxide that protects the metal from scratches , stains , and further oxidation I also expect that action would drive most neat freaks up the proverbial wall , but from a chemical and heat aspect - a single lit cigarette does n't have enough heat to do any damage . It would slightly warm up a small area of the case but do no harm to the insides . Also , I 've seen solid aluminum ashtrays in use for tens of years in harsh environments with no real pitting or permanent damage to them . An internet search for " milled aluminum ashtray " or " milled aluminum engine block " will show that aluminum ( and aluminum alloys ) can stand up to substantial heat in diverse settings . I would be more concerned at the smoke , tar , nicotine getting inside the display and the Mac , corroding the circuit boards , covering contacts in ports and clogging the blowers over time . Tacky , messy , provoke a reaction in others ? - yes Damage the aluminum surface ? - not so much
To use the Lion server for DHCP , you need to simply turn off DHCP service on the AirPort Extreme and turn it on in Lion . To use the Lion box as a firewall it will need to have two network ports - one for LAN and one for WAN . ( Unless you want your LAN side to be provided wirelessly ( which I do n't recommend ) ) . I 'm a big fan of OSX server and use it at home myself ... so here are some other neat things you could do with a Lion server ... Set up your Lion server to provide DNS names and a domain . When using the Lion server to provide IP addresses ( DHCP ) , you can also allow it to provide other info to the clients , like who 's providing DNS . So rather than having to use IPs to refer to your machines , you can give them DNS names . This means you do n't have to set up static IPs for each device and you do n't have to remember IPs ! DNS and domain name examples : macbook.mynetwork.net , airport.mynetwork.net , etc. ( mynetwork.net being your domain ) Set up RADIUS authentication with WPA2 Enterprise for your wireless connection . You " pair " the AirPort Extreme with the Lion server . This means that people who want to use your WiFi have to log in with a user and password . The user authentication is handled by the Lion server - set up your users in the server 's directory . Set up your Lion server to provide software updates to your Macs This means that your server downloads all the updates from Apple and can then serve them to Macs on your network . Saving bandwidth and time ( it 's alot faster ! ) You 'll need to either manually point the client Macs to the server for their updates or " bind " the Macs to the server in order to change the appropriate settings for this ( which is a big topic best discussed elsewhere ) . Have fun .
It 's not so much your version of Apache/PHP have been reverted - it 's just the wrong version is loaded . If you have Mac OS X 's Web Sharing enabled it will auto enable the version of Apache and PHP Apple provides using the LaunchDaemon in ( this will override MacPorts version ) . You 'll want to disable this by either turning off Web Sharing in the Sharing Preference Pane or by running . When you installed Apache for MacPorts it installed a LaunchDaemon into which if enabled will start up the MacPorts version of Apache automatically . To enable it run and you 're off to the races . If you 're running to restart - make sure you 've selected the right version . You may need to alter your $ PATH to have before As for what version of PHP is being used ; on the command line this will depend on your $ PATH while for Apache it 's entirely in your configuration of where the libphp5 module is . ( for the built in version , for the version MacPorts installed )
Those are desktop DIMMs , you want the laptop DIMMs . Try <URL> instead . or <URL> which starts a the Mac search below . 1600 would work , but it would n't be much faster as they would run at the lower frequency , but might have better latency .
I have a fairly generic ( mathematical ) answer , but can only find some of the actual numbers . After finding the 2010 Mac Mini <URL> from Apple , there are four important numbers : Tbooting = The time taken to boot up and shut down ( s ) Pbooting = The power consumption while booting or shutting down ( W ) Psleep = The power consumption while sleeping ( W ) Poff = The power consumption while off ( W ) The last is actually stated in the Mac Mini 's environmental report , and for very low sleep power usage ca n't just be ignored ! The total energy used during a period of sleep is : The total energy used from shutting down , being off for a time and booting up is : Requiring that , we can rearrange the inequality to give : The Mac Mini 's environmental report provides Psleep and Poff , and if we assume say 90 seconds total booting/shutting-down time and about 35W during said times , this would give an answer of 45 minutes . I 've yet to find similar values for the laptops ( they make a big deal about the Mac Mini being so energy efficient ) , and the booting power/times would really need to be measured to provide accurate figures . But it surprised me that it was only 1 hour ( I was expecting somewhat longer based on claims I 've read in the past , that went along the lines of <URL> ) . As @mankoff points out , there 's another option which is to hibernate using something like <URL> . In my experience this is usually faster than a full shutdown , and of course it uses the same ( incredibly low ) power while off/hibernating . So to compare mathematically , you can consider it a " shutdown " of sorts and use the same equations ( with the time taken to enter and recover from hibernate as Tbooting and the power usage while it swaps between RAM and disk as Pbooting ) . More than likely , this will reduce the the time answer since Tbooting should have been reduced somewhat . A final thought is that laptop batteries seem to lose voltage over time , even when off , at a higher rate than the Mac Mini 's advertised Poff . So the Poff value might actually be quite a bit higher for a computer with a battery , which may significantly lengthen the threshold between standby and shut-down/hibernate ( however the battery and charging circuitry will complicate measurements of Poff ) . And to further complicate things ( and possibly ruin the whole argument ! ) , more recent Mac laptops will write the contents of RAM to the disk even when they go to sleep , in case your battery runs flat while sleeping ( effectively preparing for a hibernate in case it 's forced ) .
Garageband as included with iLife '08 will work fine with Tiger but you 'll need to complete the free online upgrades to 10.4 to bring it up to date .
Sounds to me like you need to identify your Mac model more than anything else . Give a try <URL> Once you know your precise model , you may want to go to <URL> to identify the precise piece number you 're looking for .
The easiest thing to do is clean up the index file Mail uses to track the messages : Thanks for this <URL> . The linked article explains how to make an AppleScript file to measure things before and after to see if the operation thinned out the size of the file Mail uses to store the pointers to the messages . I would add , quit Mail and make a backup before trying to clean the file . A operation is normally harmless , but why not get a backup just in case . Also , this thread probably goes back to <URL> and perhaps even deeper back ...
Have you checked out the built in Screen Sharing in OS X ? Check out System Preferences - > Sharing - > Screen Sharing . Click on the Computer Settings button and you should see a dialog which allows you to enable VNC connections . You should then be able to use any VNC Client like Chicken of the VNC to connect to the remote system running Lion .
According to Apple 's <URL> page , you should be able to download <URL> .
The iBooks app on iOS as well as OS X Mavericks uses the account you use to sign into the iBooks Store for syncing bookmarks , notes , collections , highlights and purchased books . So if you share an Apple ID/iTunes Store Account for purchases from the iBooks Store , then the sync will affect all the users who share the account . The iBooks sync is not based on one 's individual iCloud account , which is used for iMessage , FaceTime , Mail , Calendar , etc. . See <URL> for more information .
You can indeed use both the HDMI and Thunderbolt ports to drive two separate monitors with a Mac Mini . Any Mac with a Thunderbolt port can use any mini Displayport display , cable or adapter , so you 're correct that the mDP to DVI adapter is what you need1 . If you have a display that requires <URL> ( typically only monitors with resolutions higher than 1920x1200 ) , you 'll need an active mDP to dual-link DVI adapter . For the HDMI port , HDMI to DVI adapters are readily available ( HDMI is essentially a superset of DVI with a different connector ) . Note that the HDMI port is limited to monitors with 1920x1200 or lower resolution . 1 Note that the reverse is not true - Thunderbolt monitors ca n't be used with mDP equipped Macs .
I 've used both . Air Display is better at updating the iPad display quickly and smoothly . Air Display also has some additional features , like being able to use the touchscreen as a mouse , and it can be used with both Windows and Mac , so I 'd say it is a better deal . Maxivista is a little easier to get set up on Windows . It just worked . I had to futz around a bit to get Air Display to work , but it was n't too hard ( just have to remember to Run as Administrator ) . For more details on what I found when I compared them , see <URL> .
The installation disk coming with a computer is for that computer model only , and I would not expect this to work . If your MacBook runs 10.5 you are eligible for the 10.6 upgrade for $ 29 . I can highly recommend it , if nothing else , for the fixes in Time Machine .
end question
start question
How Many Hours of Game Playing can Iphone 4 Support ?
Playing games on your iPhone uses a lot more processing power than 3G or wifi . The higher the cpu usage , the faster the battery drains . I 'm actually surprised you get as much battery life as you do , that seems pretty good to me .
Yes ( maybe ) . There 's an open-source kernel driver <URL> for Mac OS X that will work for some USB and Firewire enclosures . It uses <URL> to pass the SMART commands through to the hard drive , so only works if your enclosure supports SAT . SAT is n't something enclosures seem to advertise support for , but the one I use ( WD MyBook Studio Edition ) happens to support it , so it works for me . It 'll probably be quicker to test the software with your drive/enclosure , than to find out if SAT is supported in the specs .
iTunes uses iTunesHelper.app to detect if an iPhone has been plugged in . This app is usually started as a login item . Therefore you could check if iTunesHelper.app ist listed here : Preferences - > Users - > Login Items . If it 's not listed you can drag it back as described here : <URL> .
If you are talking about Parental Control type of restrictions on the iPad , I believe that to be entirely iOS software level . You have 6 attempts before it locks you out for a minute . It then increases the locked-out time after further failed attempts . Since you have two failed attempts , it should let you have four more without consequence , which , if one goes through , all is well , if not , you will be locked out , before you can do a 7th attempt for 1 minute - to start with . If you fail the 7th time , it will increase the time to 5 minutes . The eight time increases it to 15 minutes . And if you fail the ninth time , the timer increases to sixty minutes and will be that amount until you enter the right one .
The AppleScript for this is pretty simple : You can make this easily accessible by creating a Service . Open Automator and create a new document . Select the Service document type . Set the Service receives : menu to . Drag in a module and paste that code into its text box . Save the service and give it a name . You 'll now be able to activate it by going to the current app 's menu and choosing Services - > Stop iTunes ( or whatever you named the service ) . You can assign a keyboard shortcut by going to System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Services , finding the service ( it should be under General at the bottom ) and adding a shortcut .
There are applications that do this if you have jailbroken your iPhone . Without jailbreaking however there is n't a way to block a single or specific incoming number . I 've known people that have requested their provider to block a certain number and without a very good ( usually legal ) reason , they wo n't do it . The best thing you can do is record 30 seconds of silence in garage band and then use that as a ringtone for that specific number . Then at least the phone wo n't alert you .
Use this AppleScript to copy the current stream title to the clipboard : To install it as iTunes script , copy &amp; paste the above into the AppleScript Editor and save it under in your home folder , giving it a sensible name , such as . Create the folder if it does n't exist . This will make iTunes grow a little script icon in it 's menu bar where you can select the script .
Yes , it supports up to 8GB of memory . Make sure that memory is 1066 MHz , not 1333 , or you 'll be unable to boot to MacOS . If you are unable to find 1066MHz DIMM , you could be able to re-flash the SPD chip of a 1333MHz DIMMs using a technique I described at the <URL> . Note that not all 1333MHz chips can be flashed .
All this hype about how to charge your batteries is blown out of proportion . Although some batteries ( I forget which types exactly ) can have longer lives if charged at " optimal " rates and temperatures , the reality seems to be that it does not extend the life by much . One of the research papers I read concluded something like if you charge your device at around 17 degrees from 0 % until 75 % full you can extend the lifespan by about 1/5 of the total life span . I have charged my devices for days at a time , and my iPod Nano has been plugged in for months , and holds a charge the same as my other nano ( I have two ) which almost never gets used and only charged ocasionally . In conclusion , just do whatever is convenient for you . EDIT : Here are some links to the apple pages related to their iPhone batteries : <URL> <URL>
I 'm going to start off backwards . 4k Display will require some sort of cable , wether DVI , Display port , or Thunderbolt that is from manufacturer to manufacturer and model to model different . According to the tech specs of 4K it is compatible with Display port 1.2 . According to : <URL> " Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , both at millions of colors " This could however simply be that Apple has only tested it on displays with that resolution and once 4k displays are out in the real world people can test it . So your MBP Retina can support 2 external displays and the use of the the clamshell display at the same time . Those external display can be attached via HDMI and Thunderbolt ( adapters ) or both via Thunderbolt adapters . But so far the tech specs limit the resolution to 2560x1600 . It could also be that the resolution output could be enhanced with a software update ( firmware update ) at a later time . Archived Specifications page : <URL> <URL> .
Yes to all of your questions . The Jailbreak app tricks your iPhone into thinking it is on WiFi , enabling you to use FaceTime over 3G . Source : <URL>
For my iPhone 3G , I used a <URL> . One of my favorite things about it was how it let your finger slide across the screen with way less friction than the original screen does . Even when my iPhone 4 was brand new , it never had the same glide to it that my iPhone 3G had with the Power Support film . I almost never had to wipe the film on my 3G to retain that frictionless feeling ( it was just always there ) , but with my iPhone 4 ( with no film ) there are many times where I would need to wipe the screen to eliminate some of the friction , only to have it return after a few minutes of use . So if you are looking for a way to make your finger glide across the screen , I would definitely recommend using a screen protector . Although , I have n't tried any for the iPhone 4/4S , so I ca n't recommend any specifically .
The iPhone 4S takes video at 1080p and 30 fps and initial tests are showing that video takes 200MB per minute . At roughly 12 GB per hour , what seemed staggering a year ago is now quite quaint with the iPhone 4 recording at less than 5 GB / hour . <URL> that an hour of iPhone 4 video is 4.8 gig . The iPhone records its 720p HD video at around 10 megabits ( Mbps ) per second . That translates to about 80MB per minute , as we noted above , or a staggering 4.8 GB per hour . ( Hope you sprung for the 32GB model ! )
iTunes does support the original iPhone , there is no where it is written in the requirements of iTunes 10.5 that says that iTunes requires this version of iOS or this particular iPhone or even iPod in order to sync with it . All Apple music devices should be supported unless other wise noted . The only point where it may matter is if you have updated to the latest version of iOS from a newer version of iTunes ( e.g. greater than 10.5.0.142 ) and then are attempting to use that updated iOS on an older version of iTunes 10.5.0.142 in this case . In that situation there may be issues communicating between the two due to apple changing protocols or who knows what else between versions of iTunes and iOS . I suggesting updating to the latest version of iTunes , and then contact Apple or their discussion forms if the problem persists .
I know you asked if it was possible over Bluetooth and although my research did n't turn up anything for non-jailbroken phones , here is a WiFi solution which you could use on an Ad-hoc network that would work effectively the same way . Non Jailbroken WiFi : <URL> iPhone to iPhone : <URL> Jailbroken <URL> ( Cydia )
Yes . You can always restore from and older to a newer iOS version , however you ca n't go from a newer iOS version and restore to an older version .
That is pretty bizarre . The iPhone 4 is <URL> for a total of 512MB , but it sounds like , for some reason , your phone is n't seeing one of them . Your numbers bear this out too - the iPhone hardware sets aside 9MB of the total memory , resulting in the OS seeing 503MB or , in your case , 247MB . Definitely take it in and try to exchange it or replace it .
Garageband can do this . Open a new ( or existing ) project and add a new " real " track with no effects . On the bottom edge of the window you ´ ll see a LCD-like window which usually displays the current time or measure in the track ; depending on which version of Garageband you ´ re using , you can now either use the up - / down-arrows to switch to the tuner ( tuning fork symbol ) or click on the tuning fork symbol directly to select the tuner . Every sound that is picked up by your Mac ´ s microphone will now be displayed as note ( with off-pitch )
No WASS or any differential signaling is built into the iPhone . Apple does n't publish performance data for GPS or the chipsets/algorithms in use . It 's just <URL> ( which tries to be precise to 1m on the earth 's surface but never is for a variety of reasons ) In practice , iOS is usually accurate within 5 meters when the dot shows no circle on the map app ( called good or low Dilution of Precision ) . If Selective Availability ( SA ) is ever turned on again , all bets are off as the government can intentionally introduce errors of 70 or more meters if desired . The assisted part of the iPhone GPS makes it faster to get a fix based on assumptions that can be made by <URL> based on cached cell tower and wifi hotspot locations . This does n't make GPS any more precise or accurate since it 's the best signal for iOS location data when it 's present .
There is no limit to how many iOS devices you can sync with iTunes . The 5 computer limit is how many computers you can have authorized simultaneously with iTunes .
end question
start question
Does Power Nap work for multiple users ?
Power Nap will receive user level data for any users that are logged in . If you have fast user switching enabled and both accounts are logged in when the Mac goes to sleep , both should get updates . If there is a bug , it could be reported , but in the light testing I 've done , everything seems to work well for users that have logged in . If the user is not logged in , updates currently do not occur ( OS X v10 .8.2 ) .
looks like they just updated to version 2.8.1202 , release notes say " Quick Deposit for iPod touch - Now you can use your camera-enabled iPod touch to make a deposit . "
HealthKit is pretty smart with your data . For every source in the Health app , you can set the priority of difference apps . Tap one of the metrics in the Health app tap Share data > Edit to drag sources in the right order . If other apps request data , HealthKit will automatically merge the datasets , probably based on timestamps . It picks the high priority app first , and fills the gaps in data with the number 2 app , etc. . This WWDC would be a great start to get <URL> .
( Disclaimer : I have n't tried this personally . ) <URL> If I 'm understanding this page of the rEFIt documentation correctly , you should be able to take a 128x128 . icns image , name it " boot.icns " , and plop it in / System/Library/CoreServices on the partition whose icon you wish to change . ( rEFIt automatically searches for . icns images named the same way as the EFI loader file . On OSX , that file is / System/Library/CoreServices / boot.efi )
The following AppleScript should work , which you can save as an application and put in your Finder toolbar .
Mail , Contacts , Calendar , Reminders , Notes , Photo Stream , Find My Mac , and iCloud Documents are checked every hour . Time Machine backups are attempted hourly until a successful backup has been completed . Software Updates are checked daily . Mac App Store downloads are checked once a week . Source : <URL>
I have n't found any documentation for this feature yet , so I do n't have any specific answers for your questions about interactions with external Time Machine drives . However , I did do some playing around with the feature while using my laptop on battery . The first thing I noticed is that local snapshots were not enabled by default -- for me , at least . I know that because " entering " Time Machine while my backup drive was detached resulted in the usual error message -- until I executed the following from a command line : After I did this , a hidden volume called was created ( in ) and I was able to " enter " Time Machine . ( Perhaps local snapshots were n't enabled on my machine because I have less than 10 % free disk space ? ) Unfortunately , the feature seems a little half-baked . I tried the following , with pretty unsatisfactory results : Created a new folder , . Forced a new snapshot by running . Verified that a new snapshot was created by looking in . Deleted the folder . Entered Time Machine and browsed the backups/snapshots . The folder was not there in any of the backups . Update : I installed Lion on a second Mac , and without any explicit action on my part , this Mac has a volume . And restoring deleted files from a local snapshot works on this Mac .
Both displays show up as audio input and output devices on your Mac and you can pick one or the other to route audio in to from applications . You might be able to create an aggregate device out of them and use them as a four channel output source , but that would not turn out well sonically speaking . You can see it <URL> .
Thanks to <URL> , it would appear to be safe to say that the Apple Watch is more powerful than a Cray-2 : Twice as fast , twice the memory . 2 excerpts from that table <URL> :
Apple Pay is separate to Family Sharing . Each person maintains their own Apple Pay cards and being part of Family Sharing has no effect on this . It 's just like not being part of Family Sharing .
The only way that it is possible to do this - as of iOS 6 - is to start a new Shared Photostream after the Apple ID name has been changed . So for this case : " Jessica Smith " changes her name to " Jessica Grace Smith " using <URL> . I ( or the Shared Photostream originator ) creates a new Shared Photostream , and invites everyone to it , including " Jessica Grace Smith " . The new name ( with the middle name ) will now correctly show on the new Shared Photostream . This does n't have any real negative effects because all the subscribers can stay subscribed to the old Photostream if they desire ( and the originator leaves it that way ) . The other plus , is that one can un-subscribe from the old Photostream to save space .
To obtain a semi precise GPS position , you need at least three satellites ( but usually four or more is required to obtain a decent degree of precision ) to triangulate your position . The more you have the better the accuracy . A GPS receiver needs to power its antenna , and constantly process the signal sent by each satellite . Remember that satellites are continually transmitting messages . ( 50 bits/sec as far as I can remember ) Satellites emit messages specifying their exact location , trajectory , speed , the time each message was sent and the rough location of all the other satellites in the constellation . By comparing this info to the time the signal was received a distance from the satellite to the receiver can be determined . When you have three or more satellites you can triangulate your location in three dimensions relative to the positions of the satellites . The iPhone ( and other phones ) use A-GPS , which is designed to ( believe it or not ) among other things , make the GPS work better in poor reception areas ( cities ? ) and reduce the amount of information that the receiver needs from the satellites , thus saving battery power from the Antenna . The parts of the GPS signal about location , speed and orbital trajectory usually drop out first when in low reception , that 's where A-GPS fits in , feeding that info for every satellite in that part of the world to the phone , from a central database via the mobile network . Now the phone just has to search for the short timing signals from each satellite , which are easier to receive than the other parts of the transmission . When all that information is calculated , an algorithm ( there are a few as far as I know ) is used to compute the position of the actual receiver . Now add to that the fact that GPS messages are encoded and that satellites broadcast the messages at about 50 bits per second . And that each message is really a subset of frames with time , position , error correction , etc , etc. . There are more factors involver , but for the purpose of making this simple , the GPS 's cpu must constantly use the radio ( already power hungry ) to capture the signal ( which may be weak ! ) for usually four or more ( sometimes up to 20 ! ) satellites that are constantly sending packages , then it must decode and process them , perform calculations to analyze the results and in some cases draw a map or feed an application with the info . As you can see , this sounds easy but it 's not . There 's a lot of CPU processing involved in the back ( plus the antenna 's power ! ) So the GPS power consumption usually comes from the real time nature of the operation . Powering the antenna , listening for information and processing it , uses power , more than just a standby radio antenna ( the phone ) waiting for a call . Plus the A-GPS uses also the phone 's radio and ( if available ) Wi-Fi networks to determine its location ( and use less GPS info ) , which means , more power is used at the same time . The <URL> page has a lot of detailed information if you want to get the specifics and/or dive into more GPS geekery , including the math and error correction stuff .
AutoCorrect will automatically replace the word unless you cancel it manually by tapping it . ( Note the small sign in the suggestion bubble indicating that tapping it will cancel the suggestion . ) So , as soon as an AutoCorrect suggestion appears that you want to use , just hit Space ( or insert a punctuation mark ) and continue typing .
The answer was actually to do with the silly way Apple works when you run a backup with iTunes . Person A backs up their iPhone which has an app called " Whatsapp " . Person B then backs up their iPhone which also has the same app . ( Itunes will not backup Whatsapp as Person A already has ) . Person B later restores their iPhone from their own backup . Silly iTunes then uses Person A 's backed up copy of Whatsapp to restore onto Person B 's iPhone , which later causes the password prompt when performing updates . We used the same laptop 's and desktops to backup iPhones when going from iPhone 5 to 6 , which caused this problem to happen all over the place . EDIT : YES this is 100 % what is happening which is why it is the answer , not sure why the down-vote , but probably from the unhappy guy in the comments that did n't like me calling his precious iTunes " silly " . If you have the problem I had in the question , then this is the answer for it .
Launch System Preferences ... from the Apple menu . Click on Speech . The left tab is marked Speech Recognition . Set the Microphone from the default " Internal microphone " to " Line In " . Click on the Calibrate button . Then speak the phrases on the left e.g. " What Time Is It ? " If your Mac detects your line-in , you 'll see the blue-green-red indicator respond to the volume of your voice from the line-in . Have fun , and do n't forget to mark the question as answered when you 're done . Cheers .
Quoting from John Siracusa 's <URL> ( emphasis mine ) : If you prefer the old behavior , uncheck the " Displays have separate Spaces " checkbox in the Mission Control preference pane . Doing so will also restore the ability to have windows that span more than one display . So yes , it 's just a setting . It 's been put in the Mission Control pane , rather than Displays , because the effect of this change is to allow you to have different full screen apps on different displays . The page of the review that I linked to explains the change in more detail ( and specifically discusses the window-across-multiple-displays behaviour that you want ) .
Yes , it does . From within Mail , open up preferences , select the Accounts tab , and click on the small " + " button in the lower left-hand corner of the window . This will run the " Add Account " wizard to guide you through the rest of the steps .
It is a feature called activation lock <URL> I would suggest changing your Apple ID password to something simple then after about 5 minutes change it back
To enable a retina rendered Eclipse From : <URL> Here 's the workaround : Do " Show package contents " on the Eclipse.app . Edit Contents/Info . plist using your favorite text editor . Just above Place this : Then , make a copy of the app so that OSX will notice the change . Now , the info window will not show " Open in Low Resolution " as checked . Launch Eclipse and enjoy your new retina awesomeness .
The charger supplies the power that is demanded from it ( up to it 's rated output ) , not the other way around . So it 's entirely possible that the same unit will charge different devices at different speeds . It 's entirely possible that a newer battery will charge faster than an identical but older battery , and also possible that the new phone is allowed to pull more charge because it runs a little cooler ( charging generates heat , and one of the metrics for deciding how fast to charge is the heat generated as well as the batteries capacity to drink it up ) . Basically , it 's really hard to measure , without you do a from flat to full charge with the same unit to different devices with batteries of the same age and condition . Even then , be aware that the phone does n't stop charing when it says 100 % , that 's an artificial figure and your phone will continue to charge a little ( the equivalent of a little over 5 % more logically speaking ) , then run from battery a little , then charge a little , then run from battery etc - this is to keep your battery in good condition ( the same is true for 0 % , it will go lower in order to perform a clean shutdown - the battery figures are only an indication , not an accurate gauge ) - the actual methods for each device may also vary as to how they handle this .
end question
start question
How do I clean the apple mouse so that it can scroll down ?
I have also suffered with the " Dirty Mouse Ball " problem with the Mighty Mouse . To get it working again , I would hold it upside-down and spin the ball quickly in many directions . This worked the first few times , but later , I found it was not doing the job . I then started using a barely damp microfiber cloth while holding it upside down and rolling the little ball around as much as possible . This seemed to work a little better . Eventually , I found myself having to clean the thing multiple times a week and got tired of it . I replaced it with a Logitech mouse and then later the Magic Mouse and Track pad and I do n't miss the little ball at all . Ultimately , I suggest that you just replace the Might Mouse , even if you have to go with a non-Apple product . Otherwise , I think you will find yourself spending more time fighting the ball than using it .
Enter TimeMachine , then in the main window , select the backup you want to delete ( on the right ) , then use the Action Menu ( Gear icon ) to select " Delete Backup " . Using this menu , you can also , when a file or a folder is selected , delete all its backup .
Currently there is no way to sort them in mass , you could one-by-one right click on each app , select ' Get Info ' and then a window will pop up with app info . Under the summary tab you will see ( middle right hand side of the window ) ' Purchased By ' and ' Account Name ' . Sorry but that 's currently the only way . Unless your on a Mac and can code a shell script .
optionenter ( shiftenter on Windows ) will add the selected song to the Up Next list ( in iTunes 11.0 , this does not work in album view , but does in all other views ) . However , iTunes will always ask you if you want to clear the previous songs from the list , so an extra keystroke is needed . There are one or two drawbacks to this method , firstly : It defaults to clear the previous songs so a simple enter will not suffice and a P keystroke is needed to add the song while keeping the existing list . Secondly : In addition the added song will default to the top of the ' Up Next ' playlist as oppose to when you click to add a song ( in this instance the added song will default to the bottom of the list ) . I 'm only running Windows so I ca n't say the same ( or similar ) is true for Macs .
Though it 's less and less true thanks to auto save , a shutdown in general may require user action ( e.g. , from an application that does n't use the auto save model , or from an application that is frozen or becomes frozen when the OS tries to quit it ) . Therefore , any solution would not always work , because if the shutdown requires user interaction to complete , it will not finish ( unless you want to do a forced-shutdown , which is a bad idea ) . Also I should point out that this will do the exact opposite of saving energy , since booting the computer takes up a bit of CPU . The boot time will also make this the exact opposite of convenient . And due to what I said above , it wo n't be secure . If you care about security , just enable a password when the computer is put to sleep . You can set the computer to shut down automatically at a set time every day in the energy saver preferences , and logout automatically after a given time of inactivity in the security presences ( but the screensaver/sleep password is more secure , since logging out wo n't always work without user interaction either ) .
You should n't have to continually pair the mouse after every restart , this indicates there is a problem . First thing I would try is to power everything down , and then turn the mouse back on ( small switch on the bottom ) so that the mouse is " discoverable " before restarting . Ensure you follow these <URL> after restart . Make sure you have installed all system updates . OS X 10.6.2 , for example , fixed a problem with bluetooth pairing . If this still does n't fix the problem , you could try to Reset the System Management Controller ( SMC ) <URL>
Command ⌘ + Down ↓ or Function ( Fn ) + Right → should both work . Fn Right is the built-in key combination that is most equivalent to the End key .
There is no built in concept of a menu in the dialogs-alerts within the AppleScript language . The closest you could do would be to name some dummy files ( in a temporary folder ) with the appropriate action and have the user choose the file labeled with the action you wanted to perform . A horrendous " solution " to a problem that needs a cocoa menu - whether you make it in Xcode or someone else does - Xcode/IB is the tool that creates a menu . MacRuby is a nice way to script an app that needs a more full featured UI than AppleScript . You do n't need Xcode/IB to ruby up an app from pure script . You could create a NIB using Interface Builder and script it all using AppleScript , but the nib defines the menu itself - not AppleScript ( even if AppleScript can populate or delete the menu items at run time ) .
Use <URL> . Freeware . You can assign macros to any button with this wonderful tool .
You can disable some of the F-key shortcuts in System Preferences :
Other is a catch-all by taking the drive 's max capacity and subtracting the sum of all other counted file sizes . So , if your drive has corruption where many blocks are unavailable or lost , you will see large other " allocations " . If the other space remains the same after running disk utility to verify and/or repair the volume then you can assume it 's really files taking that space . The categorization comes from spotlight indexing , so you could search here how to rebuild that index if you suspect bad metadata leading to an incorrect storage report . The simplest way to rebuild the metadata ( spotlight ) index is to simply add your hard drive to the spotlight privacy list in system preferences and subsequently remove it . The built-in help should have a guide if you 're not sure how to refresh all spotlight data .
Thankfully , you can still disable the trackpad in OS X Lion . Open System Preferences , click on Universal Access , select Mouse &amp; Trackpad and click on Trackpad Options ... at the bottom . Tick the checkbox " Ignore built-in trackpad when mouse or wireless trackpad is present " .
Yes , As it turns out there is not really a better alternative to just pressing and holding the power button until the Mac shuts off . I thought there might have been some kind of a hidden gem like a S.O.S signal that could be signaled via the power button , to tell the computer to shutdown . That is not the case and there is not really a reason for one , due to the relatively low risk for serious damage by performing a hard shutdown with the power button , thanks to the protections built in to the <URL> .
I am using ScreenFlow for my video . It allows me to change the mouse cursor into a white or black circle , with a varying level of opacity . It 's exactly what I need .
I would say there is n't really any default music player on the iPhone . You could say that Apple 's Music-app is the one that opens when you press " Play " on the lock-screen or the " multitasking bar " , but there 's no real advantage in that . To answer your question , no . You are pretty much unable to change any default things in the non-jailbroken version of iOS . With that said , you can do some tweaks having jailbroken your device . If you would like to use Siri to play your Spotify music , there is a jailbreak app for that called <URL> . Other than that , you could use the jailbreak app <URL> . It makes the Spotify-application the one used on the multitasking bar .
Anything that allows you to change the color is paid software . Here 's <URL> Unfortunately , it looks like MightyMouse has been discontinued :( I would recommend this free software that displays a circle around your cursor . When you have n't moved your mouse for awhile and you move it , it 'll display a circle around the pointer . <URL> the software .
You ca n't -- sadly , Lion has no welcome video ! ( However , you can reset a machine to the first-boot state by simply booting from the recovery partition , erasing the drive , and reinstalling Lion . See <URL> for more instructions . )
Our friends over at <URL> : Here are two utilities that will allow you to customize gestures on the Magic Mouse , including adding middle click : <URL> <URL>
It 's not at all clear that Apple will endorse the transference of an App Store account and it 's clear they do n't endorse transferring parts of the purchase history . Legally , you might be able to get away with this in certain parts of the world , but it 's clearly not something Apple is keen to point out how to accomplish this or has built in a " gift my license " functionality to their stores at present . Why not include a gift card for the App Store in question or some other cash equivalent with the sale ?
First , the AppleScript that inspects the key state and handles the mic enabling and muting : Note , that the script depends on the <URL> ( and it 's path ) . inspects the state of shift instead of caps lock ( other possibilities are cmd , option , control and caps lock - caps lock , however , means the status of caps lock , not the key state ! ) In the second step we bind the script to a key shortcut . There are many applications that can do this ( some listed in <URL> ) or as an Automator service . ( C&amp;P from Lri 's answer ... ) One more option is to save the script as an Automator service : Open Automator and choose the Service template . Utilities -- Run Shell Script / Run AppleScript . Service receives [ no input ] in [ any application ] . Add the script to the text area and save . Assign a shortcut in System Preferences -- Keyboard -- Keyboard Shortcuts -- Services . So , I assigned opt + shift + M to the script above and it enables the mic , keeping it unmuted as long as I hold shift . The mic is muted again when I release shift .
end question
start question
Is there a way to auto-upload photos to Flickr on Mac ?
Update : I found a new solution . It 's an app called UPPR . It is <URL> . The app is simple and great , I use it now to monitor my OneDrive ( switched from DropBox ) pictures folder . It passively monitors a folder and uploads anything in it to Flickr . Super easy . You can set tags and privacy for all uploads .
My article at <URL> explains how to do this using the App store version of Evernote : Move ~ / Library/Containers/com . evernote.Evernote / Data/Library/Application Support/Evernote to / Users/my _ user_on_the_system / Dropbox . Create an alias of / Users/my _ user_on_the_system / Dropbox/Evernote . Move the alias of / Evernote back to ~ / Library/Containers/com . evernote.Evernote / Data/Library/Application Support /
Yes its possible . The limitations that need to be over came are three fold . There are two things that prevent 10.8 from installing on a MacPro 1,1 . The first is the lack of EFI64 . Mountain Lion as has no support for 32bit kernel and extensions so it will not boot . This is true of many early Intel macs . The other thing is that checks are made by the installer ; against a supported machines list . If your mac is n't on the list , it refuses to install . It 's important to note that an upgraded graphics card is virtually essential . The stock 7300 GT is n't supported and will cause Kernel Pannic . I do n't think the X1900-xt is either , my 8800GT did odd things on DP1 but may be OK on newer builds . Ideally Id try and source a HD5770 or other newer card . Solutions : New compatible graphics card will need to be obtained . The first issue can be dealt with by using the Chameleon bootloader . Chameleon will emulate EFI64 and therefore load 10.8 . Customization of the 10.8 Installer by adding your machine kind back onto the list of supported machines . Sources : <URL> <URL>
Not sure if this is the best method , but there 's at least one way to set a keyword to trigger stuff in spotlight , and that is by making an application with Automator . Personally I use <URL> for this type of stuff , but it 's not overly difficult to do this with Automator . Open It should by default ask you what type of file to make , but if it does n't ⌘ + N Choose a type for your document : Application Start writing : shell Press ↵ Enter twice It should now look something like this <URL> Replace the text with : Save ( ⌘ + S ) Name it : Duplicate ( ⌘ + ⇧ + S ) Rename to : In the text , replace the with : Save ( ⌘ + S ) Now if you open spotlight and write , you should see something like this : <URL> If you want to change the icons , here 's an article explaining how in detail : <URL> Short version : Open the desired image in ( png works the best ) Select all ( ⌘ + A ) Copy ( ⌘ + C ) Select the in finder Go to file info : ( ⌘ + i ) Click the current icon on the top left Paste ( ⌘ + V ) After changing the icons , you might not see them change immediately . You can force spotlight to see the new icons faster by trashing the apps and then undoing it ( taking files off the trast ) . <URL> Links to the icons I used : <URL> <URL>
After many hours finding for something at least useful to my problem , I found a website called <URL> , which provides a lot of common Mac OS " defaults write " commands . Anyway , thank Tony and drfrogsplatless for giving me clarifications and tips that were helpful to me .
You may be able to make use of keyboard combinations by using the ALT or possibly the Windows Key . Example to Copy : Use ALT C or Windows Key C.
In <URL> , Apple write " With Find My iPhone set up on your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch or Mac , you can locate , display a message , play a sound , remotely lock , or remotely wipe ( erase ) your device using the Find My iPhone app from another device ( such as a friend 's iPhone or iPad ) . " This is the closest I have found to a direct statement that it 's one package : if it 's set up , you can locate , display a message , play a sound , lock , or erase . None of the documentation about configuration mentions options to enable these selectively ; the control is off/on . As far as disabling remote wipe , there seems to be a strong indication that the remote wipe involves rebooting to the Restore partition . Evidences for this include the fact that " Find my Mac " will not turn on ( be greyed out ) if there is no Restore partition present . Also , it would be very difficult for a running process to wipe its own boot drive . The Find my Mac remote wipe causes a reboot . It seems most likely that wherever the remote wipe lives , it 's somewhere on the recovery partition . So , Find my Mac wo n't turn on unless there is a recovery partition . Remote wipe most likely wo n't work if the Recovery partition is n't bootable . To enable Find My Mac but disable Remote Wipe , you need to have a recovery partition , and it needs to not successfully boot . Sabotage the recovery system somewhere so it ca n't boot and thus ca n't be used as the plaatform to wipe your main drive . Of course you will want to keep an external bootable recovery drive ( USB stick ? ) available if you do this .
<URL> [ iTunes link ] from <URL> . According to <URL> , it integrates with Google Docs and lets you use Google Docs OCR to convert scans into editable text files on your Google account .
You could get something like <URL> , which has passthrough for any standard 3.5 mm audio , and provides volume controls and a clicker remote ( just like on Apple 's headphones ) . The clicker can to play , pause , and skip ( double click for forward , triple click for backward ) . There are other similar products out there , I found a few by searching for " iPhone inline remote " .
It looks like <URL> . Is OS X the backups seems to be stored in the following location ... ... but I do n't think you can change that location .
Double-hitting the key ( at the key place ) will bring the multitasking bar much like the button on your iPad . Confirmed on my iPad Apple keyboard dock .
Yes ! A simple AppleScript can tell the Finder to tell its front window to update every item . Such an AppleScript can be saved as an Application and then dragged to the Finder toolbar to give you a refresh button The AppleScript you need is quite simple :
Unfortunately , the answer is no : When you turn on iCloud Photo Library on your iOS device or Mac , your photos and videos will upload after you connect to the Internet with Wi-Fi and your battery is charged . <URL> [ emphasis mine ]
I have n't tried this myself . But I know if you have a video open in QuickTime the Youtube option is available there . So basically you can 1 ) select " Reveal in Finder " from the File menu , 2 ) open the video in QuickTime and then 3 ) share to Youtube . Good luck .
⇧ + ⌃ + ⏏ puts the display ( only the display , not the whole computer ) to sleep and will then prompt you for a password if you have enabled under . If your Mac does not have an & #x 23CF ; ( eject ) key , you can use ⇧ + ⌃ + ⌽ ( power ) .
The closest answer to my problem could be : which shows for example : Ignoring the date of the " SystemKey " - file .
You can use iPhoto to add to a Photostream from your Mac . I have Aperture using mine so I can not fully test it with iPhoto without switching it off in Aperture . But is should work the same way by importing the images into iPhoto which also allows you to organise them . And then using the Share feature to share to iCloud . ( photostream ) The share with iCloud startup dialogue in iPhoto : You can have multiple iPhoto libraries and open any of them as the Library to use by holding down the option/alt ⌥ key when Launching iPhoto . You should get a dialogue similar to this : This means you should be able to import a SD card to it 's own Library Although it maybe easier to just organise within iPhoto and a singe Library When selecting an image in Finder . The Share contextual menu does not offer up iCloud . So it looks like no with Finder at the moment
There are a couple of potential solutions to this problem . I say potential because everyone 's listening habits and needs are different , so your mileage may vary . Here goes : The Smart Playlist problem is not new , and certainly not unique in your case . There seems to be an overall problem with Smart Playlist syncing through iTunes Match ( 1 ) across different devices , ( 2 ) with any expediency ( usually takes > = 48 hours ) , and ( 3 ) with respect to honoring certain rules ( e.g. , number of songs allowed ) . Another common theme seems to be that " nested " playlists cause even more of a problem than standard Smart Playlists . Nested lists are those that are created when you use your option key to turn the into an ellipsis ( ) , which creates a sub-rule for your master rule . Solution 1 : Dumb it down Create a standard playlist ( Dumb ) and give it the same name as your Smart playlist . Copy the content from Smart to Dumb . Sync your device , computer , whatever . Rinse , wash , repeat for each Smart Playlist you want to have properly represented on your other devices . This works . Solution 2 : Really Dumb it Down Do your best to avoid the aforementioned nested playlists . This may require you to build several smaller smart playlists with limited criteria . Not the easiest workaround , but we 're going for functionality here , right ? Solution 3 : Really make your " Recently Added " folder songs that are " Recently Added " For your " Recently Added " folder , tack on just one more rule to force songs added after a date , rather than only within the last two weeks ( see pic below ) So , I hope this gets you at least a little closer to your goal . I tried to add as much info as I could here since , one more time : everyone 's listening and categorizing habits are different :-) You may find other variations on these , but do realize that , at least for now , this is a server-side problem and workarounds like these represent the best available solutions .
Having no password on the OS level effectively means that ssh is disabled for that user . The protocol insists on a non-zero password and thus the hashes of whatever password is supplied fails to match the absence of a hash . You must supply ssh keys or otherwise arrange some authentication to log in should your account have no password .
As they say in the iPhone world , <URL> :-) It 's called <URL> .
end question
start question
Create Service to search websites ( with query ) ?
Set the service to receive selected text , then add a Run Shell Script action with the following content , setting the shell to / bin/bash and passing the input as arguments . Replace the URL with your desired URL , where is where you would like the selected text to be inserted in the string . Also , that 's all you need for a Google search -- do n't bother with the additional session parameters .
<URL> is a few years old , and I 've not tried it , but it should do what you want .
Both . Upload and download . Upload speed depends entirely on your networks limitations . Let 's take a scenario . You have an iPhone , an iPad , and a Mac . You enable all of iCloud 's features , including Photo Stream . You take a picture on your iPhone of your dog . As soon as that picture is saved to your camera roll and your phone is connected to wifi , it sends it to iCloud . When you access your iPad , the photo will be there waiting for you under the Photo Stream group . But that does n't mean it 's downloaded to the device just yet . You will first have to tap on the thumbnail to view it and at that time , it will be stored locally on the device . From that point , even if you remove the photo from Photo Stream , say using iCloud.com , it will still be stored on your iPad ( and any device that has downloaded the image ) . Because Photo Stream removes content that 's 30 days old , over time , it will be the case that photos may be stored on some devices , but not others . This applies to your Mac as well . Depending on whether you have enabled Photo Stream in the iCloud preference pane , you 'll also need to enable it in either iPhoto or Aperture to fully make use of the service . In the respective app 's preferences , you can tweak how it manages the service . Keep in mind this only works for pictures taken after you 've enabled the feature . So if you disable it and take a photo , that remains locally stored , never to be transferred to Photo Stream . Things like documents and calendars sync instantly . So if you make a change in Address Book on your Mac , the changes will be pushed to iCloud . Once you open the app on your iPad , for example , it will download the updates . It 's unclear at this time if Apple 's servers push the changes to devices connected to the Internet . Calendar too . iCloud will try to keep all your settings ubiquitous across all your devices so you do n't have to worry about syncing or manually transferring the new contacts you added on your iPad to your phone or Mac . It 's meant to be as seamless and unobtrusive as possible , and require as little user activity and management as possible . Now most people are still conceptualizing iCloud as a sync service , but it 's not . The master version of any file is kept on Apple 's servers , and then fed to any device that needs it ( read : any device that is deemed to either not have the file at all or simply lack the updated version ) . Most people think because you made changes to your calendar events on your Mac , that that data is held as the master and pushed through iCloud to your other devices ( this is traditional sync ) , but that 's not the case . It 's fed to iCloud yes , but it 's iCloud that takes it , holds onto it , and delivers it to any device that needs it ; your Mac is no longer involved once it sends the necessary information . It 's all iCloud from then on , and this is why you 'll be greeted with a notice when you disable the calendar feature on your Mac ( or any device ) that it will wipe all local content . Since iCloud holds the master files , any device that is detached from the " network " will have their data removed in kind ( some , like Address Book ) wo n't but the majority will have their local contents deleted . This serves to strengthen iCloud 's control ( or dominance in the network ) and denounces any device that is removed from its fold , so to speak . And if you think about iCloud as a true cloud service , this makes perfect sense , as you would n't typically be disconnecting devices unless they were no longer of use to you ( when say you upgrade your iPad 2 to the next generation , or when you buy a new Mac to replace your old one ) . While critical things will remain ( contacts ) , most files wo n't survive a disconnection from iCloud . As for storing backups of your applications , and other miscellany , that too replaces your local content . All your app settings , game saves , etc. become part of iCloud . And again , once they are there , your local data becomes just another extension of the service . You can view what it stores by going into Settings > General > Usage . It will show you a breakdown of your content ( and the respective amount of space it takes ) . iCloud is meant to replace local data and move everything into the cloud so you can access it from any device and a wireless connection . It de-regulates local data , so to speak , as a result . It 's a bit confusing at first , but once you understand the general principle , it becomes much clearer to understand as a whole .
I see this happen somewhat often in our office environment where Outlook 2011 is connected to our Exchange server . Typically a spotlight re-index will do the trick , either using the method you tried or by adding the HD to Spotlight 's privacy pane , then removing it a few minutes later . Sometimes I have to go a step further &amp; remove preference files . spotlight.plist , outlook.plist , etc. . . Beyond that I will sometimes be forced to rebuild the Outlook identity using the Microsoft Database Utility ( hold opt while opening Outlook ) . Hope that helps ! ( Oddly it 's always 2 weeks here as well )
It a not possible to create a non-email address Apple ID any longer . As a matter of fact , they are becoming more and more inconvenient , as various Apple services begin to assume that your Apple ID is an email . If you have not started to notice it yet , trust me , you will , soon . I recently changed my non-email Apple ID to the linked email address . You can change the username of an Apple ID without starting a new account .
I 'm not sure how to completely disable the process but I 've set up Little Snitch to disallow incoming / outgoing processes associated with the Game Center . It 's a useful little program .
I use iTunes 10 in Windows 7 . Select the tracks . Right-click and select Get Info . Open the Options tab . Set : Equilizer Preset = Spoken Word Media Kind = Audiobook Part of a compilation = No Remember position = Yes Skip when shuffling = Yes Gapless album = No Press OK . Also , make sure the correct track numbers and disc numbers are set for each track .
I have n't found any " one click " method , but these steps do the trick : Create a new playlist and give it a title . This playlist should now be open in the right sidebar in iTunes 11 . Open the Up Next list via the blue icon to the right of the current song 's title . Click on the first song you want to add to select it . Shift-click on the last song you want to add . All songs between and including the first and last should now be highlighted in the Up Next pane . Click and drag the list into the open playlist . You 'll need to switch to the History view in the Up Next pane and repeat the process of selecting tracks and adding them to your new playlist . Click " Done " in the playlist sidebar once you 've finished adding tracks and putting them in the desired order .
The Safari Extension <URL> allows you to change the search engine used by the Safari search bar/unibar , without any hack-ish stuff such as changing the hosts file .
See <URL> for pricing information in various countries . In your case ( Italy ) it 's 130 or 180 $ depending on screen size .
Okay . . Apple have a perfectly workable website titled " Create a bootable installer for OS X " ( <URL> ) Which tells you what to do via the Terminal , once you have successfully downloaded Install OS X El Capitan.app , Install OS X Yosemite.app and Install OS X Mavericks.app . Their instructions are as follows : EDIT : note , added macOS Sierra , which works with the same method - but is not listed on their website macOS Sierra OS X El Capitan OS X Yosemite OS X Mavericks I was able to use these commands from the Terminal , onto a Disk Utility - made 5 partition USB stick . I verified it with option-down-during-boot ( alt-down-during-boot ) and both of them booted up fine . I was unable to find an OS X Snow Leopard installer from my hard drive or elsewhere , so I 'm considering this question answered . Note : Mountain Lion installer app does not have " createinstallmedia " like Yosemite + Mavericks do , hence I did n't install that one on a USB stick - for that , one would have to use a secondary set of instructions for installing the installer to a USB stick via the usual way ( Disk Utility , mounting , copying , copying some more . . )
I would create a smart mailbox containing all Flagged items , and then ( this is the one you want ) a smart mailbox with the ' Not In Mailbox ' option to return all the items that are not Flagged , and thus not in that mailbox . Create this first : Then for the mailbox you want , create this one : Worked for me in Mail 4.6 , OSX 10.6.8 .
You could use the one that 's built into <URL> ... ( which is a viable replacement for Terminal anyway , if you do n't know it yet )
In System Preferences , go to Keyboard " Keyboard Shortcuts " Services Find the service on the list . To the right of the service name , double-click . Enter the desired shortcut .
From my hands-on experience , I 'd have to say , " negative " . I 've created a couple of fusion drives on a 2008 Mac Pro from devices with preexisting partitions . Building the fusion in Core Storage destroyed all partitions on the media .
If we are speaking only about Screen Sharing ( SS ) ( forgetting ARD ) , it is working as follows : First , there is a daemon configuration file ( / System/Library/LaunchDaemons / com.apple.screensharing.plist ) . It contains a record that tells launchd to start SS Server ( and then SS Agent ) every time when someone connects to port 5900 . The server is located at / System/Library/CoreServices / RemoteManagement/screensharingd . bundle , the agent is at / System/Library/CoreServices / RemoteManagement/ScreensharingAgent . bundle . The SS Server is the main part of SS Service . It performs network interacting , implements used protocols , performs image encoding , authentication and so on . In turn , SS Agent impersonates current user and handles things like providing image of user screen , " pressing " keys , " moving " mouse . ( AFAIR , this separation began with Mac OS X 10.7 . Formerly the service was monolithic , was named AppleVNCServer and has been always running while the " Screen Sharing " switch in System Preferences was on ) . SS Service also can start the following helpers as needed : SSPasteboardHelper ( located in SS Agent bundle ) -- pastes pasteboard data to system pasteboard as it arrives from the client , SSAssistanceCursor -- appeared just recently , I 'm wondering what it is for , SSFileCopyReceiver / SSFileCopySender ( in SS Server bundle ) -- is used for transmitting/receiving files . As for protocols , SS Service uses the same RFB protocol as all VNC clients , but with some specific extensions . The server reports that it supports protocol version 3.889 ( most other servers report versions 3.3 to 3.8 ) . It also supports most common codecs -- raw , ZLib , ZRLE -- as well as Apple 's custom ones ( black-and-white and grayscale ZLib , and " adaptive " codec that uses JPEG-like compression algorithm ) . Also there are many Apple-specific protocol extensions , implementing drag-and-drop , files transmission , automatic pasteboard synchronization , transmission of gesture events , and so on . This is a very general explanation , but if you ask a more specific question , I 'll be glad to help .
I 've always involved the carrier , but I do n't know if you have to involve VZW in the switch . If you have a shared data plan , then you will certainly want to get them involved to ensure you do n't make a stand alone plan when the old SIM hits the new device . I 've had no issues with exchanging a device and not had to pay the fee for enrolling the new device since it simply replaced the old one . If you are on a month to month plan and do n't mind re-paying the activation charge , you could simply set up the new device and let the old device 's plan expire . Much depends on if you use the device to set up the account or want to have verizon enter the details into their system as the different types of accounts have different manners of adding the new device to the plan .
Ugh , this is so annoying -- it is the height of designer/developer arrogance ( in my opinion -- and I 'm a developer myself ) . The other answer 's code did not work for me , but after much experimenting I got this to work ( iPad 3/iOS 5 ) : Use the same method as the other answer says to add it ( create a bookmark for any page , then edit the bookmark and replace its URL with the above code ) .
From my experience excluding a folder from Spotlight indexing will exclude the files/folders from showing up when you do a search in Spotlight ( command + space ) but will still allow you to open that folder in finder and use the search bar in the top right of finder to search within that folder only . I imagine that the search of an un-indexed folder means the OSX will search in real time , or temporarily index the folder to allow you to do a folder search that has been excluded from the main Spotlight index and then erase it when you close the Finder window . Just make sure once you 've typed in your search word ( s ) in the search bar that you click the name of your folder/drive in the " Search " criteria in the grey bar that appears ( as shown below ) . To exclude a folder from appearing in the Spotlight search , and therefore from being indexed go to : System Preferences > Spotlight > Privacy tab , then click the + and select the folder you want to exclude :
There is no a way to do this in Xcode . It must be related to the project or workspace . It even does this if you deselect the target . It sounds like what you need is a text editor and not an IDE like XCode since XCode is built for OS X and iOS development primarily . You may want to try <URL> for free , or it 's purchasable counter part BBEdit . If your doing C/C + + , Python or PHP work , you may want to try some of the other <URL> products like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . There is also <URL> , with it 's many plugins , the heavy favorite amongst many developers .
end question
start question
Can any apps print from the iPhone ?
Apple 's AirPrint Wireless Printing for iPad , iPhone &amp; iPod touch Coming to Users in November CUPERTINO , California -- September 15 , 2010 -- Apple ® today announced that it is releasing a beta version of its AirPrint wireless printing for iPad ™ , iPhone ® and iPod touch ® to members of Apple 's iOS developer program today , and that AirPrint will be included in the free iOS 4.2 software update in November . AirPrint automatically finds printers on local networks and can print text , photos and graphics to them wirelessly over Wi-Fi without the need to install drivers or download software . HP 's existing and upcoming ePrint enabled printers will be the first to support printing direct from iOS devices . Via <URL> .
Apple limits what can run in the background to ensure battery life is not dramatically reduced . Skype will be constrained to the same restrictions that all other App Store apps must follow . Given this , it is fair to assume Skype uses no more than any other Internet telephony app running in the background on your iPhone . Fraser Speirs 's article may be helpful in better understanding <URL> .
The current low level Mac Mini with an upgrade to 4GB memory is probably the best bang for your buck . That 's what I have except with 8GB ; got my memory from Amazon for $ 130 , cheaper than Apple memory . It 's a very capable machine . If you use a lot of programs simultaneously , the standard 2GB is kinda cramped , but 4GB would do fine ; it just seemed like a good deal for 8GB and I use more than your average number of apps simultaneously and lots of Safari tabs . The new MacMini is much nicer than the 2009 's . I know this because I had one before this one ; with 2GB of course :) . You 're gon na love OS X by the way . Do n't be surprised if you ditch Windows in a year . About your specific questions : Any current Mac has an Intel CPU . <URL> back in 2006 and yes you need one , but you do n't want a computer that old anyway ! Just about any keyboard or mouse will work fine with OS X . If you are using some kind of fancy mouse or keyboard , then you 'll probably will need some third party software to get all those custom parts working , but all the standard parts will work ; left click , right click , scroll wheel , cursor control etc. . There is a chance however that there is no OS X equivalent of the third party software you may be using . Finally , Macs work with standard monitors and even regular modern TV 's with DVI , VGA , HDMI inputs ( virtually all of them do ) . The most you 'll ever need is a common adapter found at Best Buy , Apple Store etc. .
You might consider searching the App Store . A few that turned up were : <URL> <URL> <URL> .
There 's been much debate and discussion around this topic . I believe it was beneficial for iOS back in the v3 and v4 days but now it 's not . Craig Federighi even came out recently saying it 's not necessary and it does n't increase the battery life . Apple has built-in their memory management the proper time to suspend and/or kill an app when necesssary . The only time you should force-close an app is if it has become unresponsive .
Yes . You can always restore from and older to a newer iOS version , however you ca n't go from a newer iOS version and restore to an older version .
<URL> works for testing multitouch , so you can try different areas of the screen by holding one finger in a place you know works and move the other elsewhere . If the line breaks , then the second finger is in a location that does n't work . You can test it full screen ( without the Safari UI but the status bar is still present ) by adding it to the home screen .
Try <URL> Easily transfer photos and videos between iPhone , iPad , Android and Computer . No cables or extra software required . $ 2.99 in the app store .
From testing , it seems you ca n't break that link without having to re-download . Since the change requires you to synchronize the phone , you will need to re-download the files from the phone once you 've un-ticked the box , since the synchronize does remove the applications completely . Unfortunately the answer to your question is right now there is n't a default way , but I suspect it will become possible in future iTunes versions . I have looked for possible hacks to do this and have yet to find one that does n't require jail breaking to copy the files back .
I guess it 's mostly here for people on Leopard and older version of Mac OS X . Since the Mac App Store only works in Snow Leopard and later . It could also be for people who do n't want to depend on an internet connection when they need to ( re ) install , and want to have the app physically at all time .
Go to Settings > Notifications > Stock Widget and turn it Off . Notifications for all apps that can display them are managed in Settings . Two built-in apps , Stocks and Weather , get exceptional treatment and show in Notification Center as widgets . In the Notifications Settings , they are listed as Stock Widget and the Weather Widget . To prevent an app from displaying in Notification Center , click the app in the list and make sure the option " Notification Center " is set to off .
To expand on <URL> answer , we do this in South AFrica quite often . Register a US account using a valid US Address ( The US Yellow Pages Helps ) Do not register a credit card Download free apps , books , music etc. . Purchase US iTunes gift cards online and load onto account Buy software , books and music . Please note , South Africa has a severely restricted App Store , and we can not purchase games , music or books any other way , and due to legal issues with classification of items , will most likely never be able too
I do n't have an iPhone 4 to test this , but I assume Core Location will do . <URL> <URL> is also an option , and comes with some more information .
Yes , those apps you mentioned are free for new devices . ie , activated on or after September 1 , 2013 . All five apps will be free if you meet the following criteria : You have to activate an iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch on or after September 1 , and The device has to be compatible with iOS 7 , and you can check our complete list of devices that can run iOS 7 , and You have to install iOS 7 , which will be available September 18 . Before then , the apps will still have a price tag on them . <URL>
To remove an item , just swipe your finger to left over that particular entry . A red " delete " button will pop up .
I 've used <URL> ( link goes to their site , iTunes link below ) for some time , thought admittedly very sparsely and only for the simplest of use cases , so , much of this is taken from their site . Use the OS ' Address Book : Yep , it maintains it 's own " quick list " ( favorites ) however . and global Recent Calls list : Nope , maintains it 's own ( pretty sure this one is impossible anyways , " private APIs " and all that ) . Load as fast as Phone.app : I call this subjective , because Phone.app is always running , which gives it an inherit speedup compared to anything else . Acro 's SoftPhone does support the VoIP backgrounding , and even push , so you can " Swipe To Answer " , but it still takes at least a couple seconds to do . ( At least that 's how it feels , comparatively speaking . ) International Number Support : I think this is not so much a client feature as much as it is a feature of your server you SIP register to . This one is unknown to me as I 've never attempted to call an international ( outside the US ) number . Allow Recording : Yes . Upon tapping the record button , a voice announcement is played , and then conversation is recorded and able to be replayed from the app . Skype : Nope Google Voice : Yep , but to what extent , I am unsure . Per their website : GoogleVoice users : Though we have integrated GoogleVoice , Acrobits Softphone 's main use is as a SIP client . You can setup Acrobits Softphone to initiate GoogleVoice calls through other types of numbers , but to get the full functionality of Acrobits Softphone , you need to have GoogleVoice linked to a SIP Account . Rest : If it 's SIP , it should work . Bonus : It supports ZRTP . Zimmerman 's encrypted RTP protocol for SIP calls . Free for incoming calls , in-app purchase for initiating calls using it . iTunes Link : <URL> .
Take a look at <URL> and the website <URL> ( accessible on any iOS device )
You are quite correct , you do n't want to sync your iPhone to this new Mac . At the least , you 'd lose any songs or movies you have loaded . You can do what you want using the iPhone Configuration Utility ( free at <URL> ) . Install , connect the iPhone , click on the iPhone 's icon , and go to the Applications tab . It will let you install or uninstall individual apps . Or connect your iPhone to WiFi ( you could use Network Sharing from the new Mac , if no other WiFi is available ) to download directly , after buying from either the iPhone or the Mac .
Seems feasible . The last post on <URL> says someone got it to work . <URL> ( not just sync ) though .
A primitive work around would be to set two alarms , both with no snooze . Alarm 2 can be set X minutes after Alarm 1 .
end question
start question
Is it possible to use the Rōv scanner that ships with Delicious Library for general purpose scanning ?
Bmike From memory , Delicious Library includes the software component required to communicate with serial io devices such as USB and Bluetooth scanners like the Microvision ROV Thee may be other ways to interface but the recommended solution from the scanner manufacturer is a piece of software , SerialMagic or SerialMagic Pro from a company called Serial IO <URL> Currently retailing at 50 USD
Yes , security vulnerabilities that would allow people to hack or infect Macs and iOS products do exist , though they 're not exploited very often . <URL> is an annual contest where competitors try to hack into machines to win them as prizes . Both Macs and iOS products are hacked most years . Here is <URL> : Friday , Apple released an update to its mobile operating system ( iOS 4.3.4 ) which patches a couple of vulnerabilities that left a door open for malware infections on the iPad , 3rd and 4th generation iPod touch , iPhone 4 , and iPhone 3GS . Apple 's update describes the CoreGraphics vulnerability as " A buffer overflow ... in FreeType 's handling of TrueType fonts . Viewing a maliciously crafted PDF file may lead to an unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution . " [ ... ] This update comes on the heels of an alert from German IT group BSI , which warned of an unpatched vulnerability that would " allow attackers to gain access to the entire system with administrative privileges . " Apple does " verify " any software for their App Stores , but developers have been known to sneak in features without Apple 's testers seeing them , so do n't expect this to entirely protect you .
My understanding is that this is due to the fact that the slide transition takes a certain amount of time - the 15 seconds is the total time the slide is undistrubed on the screen and it allows a certain amount of time for the changover - the way to check this is to set the timing to ' 0 ' and see what happens :)
The native Contacts and Phone apps do not support this in iOS . As a workaround , you could use a third party contacts manager which supports smart groups , creating " Has a phone number " and " Has an email address " groups and working from these . Note that the contact lookup sheets shown by other apps ( like , say , Mail ) are provided by the native app and thus will not show your new groups . A free example of such an app for the iPhone would be <URL> -- searching for " smart groups " on the App Store should get you more .
Yes , just go to the Preferences for the Dictionary app . There 's a list there of all the possible dictionaries , which you can then drag to be in any order you like .
There is <URL> that explains the issue in more detail , but for all intents and purposes if you purchased a CDMA iPhone from a carrier then you will be 100 % out of luck ; you simply can not use another provider 's SIM card . The only way you could ever expect to use a CDMA iPhone with another GSM network is to get a factory unlocked phone directly from Apple . But if you get any CDMA phone from a provider like Verizon , Sprint or Virgin Mobile you are basically locked into their CDMA network . No chance to just pop another carrier 's SIM card in there to get GSM service from someone else .
If the only two directories you have in ~ Library/Developer are Xcode and Docsets ( or Shared/Docsets ) then you should be safe to delete that folder . If you did re-install XCode you would get them ( or updated versions ) back .
If I 'm reading your description correctly , then the replacement cord has a higher rating ( 60W ) than the 45W that is drawn by the 2011 Macbook Air . This is fine because all it means is that the cord has a thicker gauge to handle a higher wattage ( than what you are are actually using ) . The replacement cord would not affect the voltage , so your adapter would still be delivering what it is specified for , namely the 14.5 V.
If what you need is to connect to the same Mac machine with two different users in two different sessions , as Terminal Services for Windows can do , this is the answer : currently , with the default system , this is not possible . However , alongside the future Mac OS X 10.7 Lion -- that will be released <URL> -- <URL> with the updated Screen Sharing . If what you need is to connect to the same Mac machine with the same user in the same session , you already can connect to that machine with any VNC client , if Screen Sharing is enabled .
No , because of completely different executable-architectures . Only if you 're willing to recompile them for OSX and they 're Darwin based .
Unfortunately , Time Machine does n't support this feature and there are a couple of reasons why . Time Machine makes physical backups of all your files , not just links to them . If it backed up to iCloud Drive ( which syncs to your Mac ) , it would duplicate 150GB on to your HDD . It would then try to back all of that up too ( unless you exclude that location from the backup ) so it would try to add another 150GB to the backup , and so on . Time Machine makes incremental backups . Sure , your backup is just 150GB now . But you change a few files and it backs up an additional 25MB . You install a new app and it adds another 2GB . While you may keep your actual drive below 320GB , your Time Machine backup could end up over 1TB in size ! In my case , I use about 400GB of storage on my Mac , but my Time Machine backup is over 1.3 TB due to deleted files . Having said all that , sure , theoretically it is possible . If you created a link to a folder on your iCloud Drive in it should show up as a disk to back up to , and if you excluded backing up iCloud Drive through Time Machine it would n't double in size every backup . Your hard drive would fill up very very quickly though , and your performance would suffer . To me , at least , this seems a lot more effort than it is worth .
This answer has been moved to a more generic question : <URL>
No , pretty sure you wo n't be able to use a Mac server and then connect iOS devices to PCs and prepare them using Configurator remotely . You can add more USB ports using a hub to increase the number you can connect simultaneously .
You probably can use an SD card as a backing store . However : you should not expect a good result . See the up-voted comments .
iBooks , like all items bought in the iTunes store , can be shared across different iTunes libraries via <URL> . As Apple states : Home Sharing in iTunes is designed to let you easily share your iTunes media libraries between up to five computers in your household . All libraries setup for sharing with the same ID can import purchases made with that ID , independently of the ID they normally use for purchases in the iTunes store . See <URL> for details on requirements , setup procedure etc. .
You need 10.6 Server . It does not help to change the settings to 10.6 Server , you have to use 10.6 Server as operating system on the USB-Stick ... or you can try some hacks , e.g. Hackintosh ( search for it in Google ) in a virtual environment but that 's a little bit more complicated you can check <URL> for this .
No it is not possible . The screen is what is limiting the resolution . That does mean that you can set up and use an external monitor with higher resolution as you can read on : <URL>
As described in Apples <URL> : To delete the Keychain completely , you have to deselect in the iCloud Account details under system preferences . After that , turn off the Keychain usage on every device that is using it . This will delete the complete keychain . Turning on the will result in a clean keychain . If you want to edit items stored in the iCloud keychain you can do so via the Mac OS X keychain app or from your iDevice in the Safari preferences . Mac OS X example : On the left , select iCloud and delete / edit items on the right .
Using remote desktop tools , yes . For example , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> come to mind immediately .
If the card can be used in an Apple retail store ( i.e. not an iTunes gift card ) , then yes . Repairs are treated as an in-line item in their POS system . Any valid form of payment that could be used to pay for anything else in the store can be used to pay for repairs . I called an Apple retail store to confirm this .
end question
start question
iTunes Wi-Fi Sync , copy photos from iPad to PC ?
iTunes ca n't download pictures from iOS devices to your computer , not even when connected via USB . The sync option allows you to upload pictures from a selected folder from your computer to the device . On Windows , you can use the system camera import option -- some methods on how to enable it if it 's not working are described <URL> -- , <URL> , <URL> app on windows 8 and 10 , and a long list of apps ; all of them require you to plug your device to your computer . There appear to exist pure wireless alternatives , one called " Wifi Photo Transfer " - <URL> ; and " Wifi Transfer App " - <URL> ; look at the " Customers Also Bought " section as there appear to be a lot of apps that do what you want . I have n't tried any of them . If you 'd rather never worry about manually syncing , and do n't want to use iCloud Photo Library marvelous service , that even takes care of reducing the space used by your pictures , I suggest you try Dropbox that does what you want -- via internet though , and if you either have bad passwords , reuse them , or , god forbid , <URL> and you do n't react quickly you may be in trouble . Google has <URL> , closer to iCloud Photo Library in functionality , but you 'll have to install Google Drive on your PC and activate the Photos folder inside Drive in order to have a hard copy on your computer . Also , depending on your settings and how many pictures you have , you may have to pay with Google or Dropbox ( and iCloud as well ) . Lastly , you may enable <URL> , which in my opinion is very complicated but it automatically copies your pictures ( via iCloud ) to your computer ; if iCloud Photo library is off <URL> thus your fear of your pictures leaking is at least minimized because a third person looking to steal your pictures will have to set up a device with your iCloud credentials in order to retrieve said pictures , and it will alert you of that event on all signed in machines . You can also add <URL> authentication to your device if you are worried about your privacy .
As @iampearce answered in the comments : If you 're manually syncing , grab the file from in iTunes and drag it onto the iPod itself . This will force it to copy over , and you 'll be able to see it happen in the progress bar .
iTunes does indeed compress large images when syncing to the first-party Photos app on an iPhone or an iPad . It calls this process " image optimization " and it even gets its own progress bar when you sync your device . Currently , the solution is to use some other third party image vieweing app . <URL> , for example , can handle high resolution images , and there are many others .
Unfortunately iTunes does n't support selecting multiple applications , apart from manually selecting each one . The best option would be to disable syncing of Applications on iTunes . For iTunes sync to work correctly you either need to use it to manage your applications , or only use the iPad and download all the applications you want directly to the iPad using the App Store on the iPad .
The Copy function copies the photo onto the clipboard . You can then paste it into other apps , say Mail , by tapping and holding until a contextual menu appears that says " Paste " . If you 're on a web page , you can tap and hold an image and select " Save Image " to save it to your camera roll . But you ca n't use the Copy function to " paste " it into your camera roll .
I actually have found one solution : <URL> Usual warnings concerning ( non - ) confidentiality of data etc. apply .
The UI for configuring Google Contact Sync in Address Book and in iTunes is intended to support the same feature . If it is enabled in one place and not enabled in another place , it is a bug in the Apple software . Pre-iCloud , all contact syncing worked through a service called Sync Services . Google Contact Sync is one of the clients of contact syncing via Sync Services , and both Address Book and iTunes provide a user interface for enabling Google Contact Sync .
The last 1000 photos and 30 days are , via the photo stream . Apple details <URL> . But this should be seen as a temporary solution .
Start and stop times do sync , as well as volume adjustments . EQ settings sync as well . However , they only work under the following conditions : You used a preset in iTunes ( not custom EQ settings ) ; and You have EQ disabled on the phone . As backwards as that second one sounds , if you EQ enabled on the phone , it uses that EQ setting and overrides the per-song EQ settings . If you have EQ disabled on the phone , it uses the per-song EQ settings .
If you just saw that you exceeded your data , it could 've been many hours ago while you were not at home . AT&amp;T says it could be delayed by 24 to 48 hours . In my experience , the iPhone will only use data from one connection at a time , not both ; Its choice is indicated by which adapter symbol is showing in the menu bar . When you see the Wi-Fi symbol , your iPhone is only using Wi-Fi for the internet . Example : When I 'm connected to a really bad Wi-Fi network ( if I am almost out of range or it lost its internet connection ) , and trying to load a page in Safari , my iPhone will struggle with loading the page for about 10 to 20 seconds . Then , the Wi-Fi symbol switches to the 3G symbol and the page loads using cellular data . The only exceptions I know of are multimedia messages ( MMS ) that are n't iMessages and Visual Voicemail -- both of these things will not come over Wi-Fi and ca n't be received with cellular data off . They are not using both , but they could use cellular while you 're on Wi-Fi . Last bit of evidence and future-proofing : In iOS 6 Beta 4 , Apple added an option for " Wi-Fi Plus Cellular " . ( <URL> ) It will help people who may be on a Wi-Fi network with little or no internet connection be able to get cellular data through to some apps . ( Maybe I 'm just on the Wi-Fi network for Airplay for example . ) It allows you to choose ( from their pre-set list ) which apps can access cellular data while you 're on Wi-Fi . Before iOS 6 , this option was unavailable .
This is not possible as iOS apps are not able to control system hardware such as Wi-Fi .
If you go in to iTunes and go to Preferences - > Devices , and check the box that says Prevent iPods , iPhones , and iPads from syncing automatically .
Use <URL> it 'll sync pictures automatically between Mac and iPhone ( it does also work with iPad , Apple-tv 4 and iPod Touch 5/6 ) with iOS 8.1 or newer .
Tap on the photo bubble in the message list . Tap to bring up the photo controls . Press the Share button , and select Save Image . This works in both iOS 6 and iOS 7 .
I know of no other solution to sync the handheld device . If you want to get files on and off the device , you may be able to find tools/apps to help you . I 've had to resort to a tool to get some audio and video content off of an iPod once that was loaded on someone else 's machine ; when you associate an iPod with a new machine , iTunes really wants to zap the contents , and I assume that may also be true with iPhone . Also , the way some of that content is stored on the device may not be what you 'd expect ( files in a file system ) , it 's more like cryptically named blocks of data in a database . But there are tools that can help you deal with the problem .
Even with multi-homing on iOS 7 starting to allow traffic over LTE and WiFi simultaneously , there is n't a good way to accomplish this on OS X Mavericks and lower . I have run <URL> on macs since 10.4 and it 's really nice when you have a gigabit switch . You will need a switch that runs LACP and two physical ethernet ports like is typical on G4 &amp; G5 PowerMacs days and of course the entire MacPro line . This is built into the OS X network stack and you need nothing but the hardware and a compatible ethernet switch . Mac OS X wo n't show LACP as an option without two ethernet ports . I do n't know of a switch that does LACP over wireless or allows mixing of wired and wireless interfaces . You might be able to trick the OS some way , but without the switch to cooperate you 'll have to rewrite LACP on the switch for that to work . It 's much easier to segregate certain traffic over specific interfaces by modifying your routing table . This will allow you to send some traffic over wifi and others over the wire . For example netflix and such could be routed over one connection if you set up a route to their network to prefer one gateway IP on the ISP you prefer . It 's not feasible to tell an application to use only one interface as that has to be " baked " in to that app and not common practice . What is common practice is to use local routing tables ( or routing tables on the router ) to steer certain traffic to one gateway . More sophisticated routers have quality of service where you specify some metric like VOIP or video conference traffic is a priority - so when the network is overloaded in some specific , measurable way , then non critical traffic will be shaped or steered to a different route to keep the fast network clear for better responses . These routers and the knowledge to run them do not come cheaply . I 'd guess $ 3k us for the hardware and triple that for training and software licenses on the routers .
They are synchronised over iCloud , so if you log in to iCloud the list of networks and their associated passwords are added to macOS .
There have been hacks in the past to enable tethering , but in almost all cases , the carrier can tell what you are doing . I have even heard that people that tethered were individually contacted by AT&amp;T to let them know that the tethering fee would be added if they wished to continue tethering and asked the customers to come in to chat if there were perhaps a misunderstanding . You 'll want to look for an unofficial AirPlay receiver app on the jailbreak side of things since Apple is n't even <URL> - let alone video apps . Long term - let 's hope enough people push for <URL> in the US cellular space so that there is one tariff for data based on volume - not how you intend to use that data .
I 'm not an expert on jail breaking , but AFAIK , that limitation is baked into iTunes - it does n't really care if your phone is jailbroken , at least for the purposes of your question - it just talks with the music app ( or more specifically , the database behind it ) . That said , there is software out there that can restore your iTunes library from an iPod or iPhone . <URL> works on OS X , there 's also <URL> . <URL> seems to be the goto option for Windows . You 'll have to use one of those programs to get your library back on your new computer , then re-sync your iPhone from your new library .
If you iPhone talks to the internet while connected to WiFi , then yes , it costs your home internet bandwidth . If it talks to the internet outside of of WiFi range , it costs your mobile internet bandwidth . Syncing your phone with iTunes does not use the internet , it only uses the local network . If your phone is configured to sync with iCloud , then it is using the internet .
end question
start question
Is it possible to run Snow Leopard on a LATE 2011 MacBook Pro ?
I 'd like to confirm that it IS possible to run Snow Leopard on a late 2011 MBP 15 " without ANY FLAW although AppleCare technicians told me that it is not possible ! I did it on mine ( CTO , 2.2 GHz i7 ) bought in fev . 2012 and had not the slightest issue since . But from Apple side it is NOT recommended and certainly NOT supported . - But hey , my love and I have some scientific software and also Adobe products that only run smoothly on Snow Leopard and all our other Mac 's in the family are on SL so I had to give it a try to stay productive . And personally , I 'm not really happy with Lion , but that 's an other story . - For me it 's just roaring and definitely not the ' King ' of the MacOs as the name suggests ... So here is what I did : As I could n't lay my hands on a original MBP 15 " Install-DVD from last summer ( 10.6.7 ) which should allow you to boot the MBP15 " directly from it , I did a clean 10.6.7 install with my iMac 27 " ( iMac11 ,1 - i7 2.8 GHz ) on an external hard drive starting from a 10.6.3 iMac install DVD and applying all the updates up to 10.6.7 . Then I formatted my MBP internal drive in target disk mode and created 3 partitions ( SL , Lion , Bootcamp ) . Using CarbonCopyCloner I cloned the clean SL installation one the first partition of the MBP , then disconnected the laptop and booted in SL . There was one little glitch with the splash screen resolution ( not full screen ) but nothing serious . Now I ran the 10.6.8 combo update that I downloaded before cloning and did all the software updates and another reboot . That done SL runs now without any problem - not one incompatibility issue in one month ( would have been surprised because there were no major hardware changes from early to late 2011 MBP15 " ) . As next step I rebooted the MBP holding the alt-command-R keys to start from the Apple servers and did a new Internet install of Lion on the second partition . And last I installed Windows 7 on the third partition reformatting it using NTFS ( be careful to choose the right partition - by the way there is a fourth partition : the rescue partition created by Lion you do n't want to touch ) . Once Win7 installed I ran the Bootcamp Assistant and did all updates . And so now we have a nice triple boot MBP15 " allowing us to use all the software we need without the slightest problem . You could probably even try a quadruple boot adding a Linux partition ... But be careful ! I would n't bet that this method works for all new MBP and MBA so you want to make sure your model ran with SL back in summer 2011 and had no major hardware changes before trying ! You can also test booting it first from an external drive with the clean install on it . I neither do know if my method worked because the iMac 27 " and the MBP15 " both have a i7 Quad Core . that 's it , have fun !
Yes . I own a MacBook Pro 3,1 . I installed 6GB memory and have been using it like that for more than two years . Note the specifications below . You can call the tech support people at <URL> if you have any questions . The RAM in my system is as follows : Bank 0 : 2GB DDR2 SDRAM 667 MHz Bank 1 : 4GB DDR2 SDRAM 667 MHz
To your questions : Is it possible to upgrade the SSD at all ? I have heard rumours that they are soldered in after 2010 , and are not replaceable . Yes , it should be possible , <URL> have done it . This video ( How to Upgrade/Replace the Hard Drive in the 2011 15 " MacBook Pro ) shows the procedure ( just for information , I understand you do n't want to void your AppleCare warranty ) : <URL> . My city and country ( Tallinn , Estonia ) has no official Apple stores that I know of , but does have Apple-authorised resellers . Are they the appropriate place to get this done ? Yes , I 'd definitely go to an Apple authorized reseller . I could find Premium resellers in Tallinn ( see <URL> ) : You can select another country/language from <URL> ( though I used the trick explained here <URL> ) .
Replacing an entire keyboard on a MacBook ( Air or not ) is a hard operation or a delicate operation if you just do the key caps . It is in the realm of possible , but almost never is it practical . In every case I 've seen , there is at least one difference ( typically a handful of differences on the 82 or so keys ) in the key cap physical size between a US model and a european model . Total replacement of keycaps is n't a viable option . Apple does n't sell key caps to end users , so you will want to look up a Service Provider to ask them what they would charge you to sell you the black replacement caps if you ordered a set for the US model of your Mac . <URL> You 'll also ask them how much the scissors underneath would cost ( and how long parts take to arrive ) in case you break the delicate plastic parts while removing the caps . My guess is you 'll get many of the keys replaced easily for not a whole lot of money , but the special keys will be shaped in a way that you ca n't replace them . Source : <URL> German ( G ) : US :
Simple answer -- yes you can ! there should be no any problems .
Yes . As long as you 're running the most up-to-date Snow Leopard version ( 10.6.8 ) , you can directly upgrade to Mountain Lion , as detailed on <URL> . Just download from the App Store and you should be good to go .
I have the same generation MBA . You do n't specify 11 or 13 inch , and that makes a potential considerable CPU difference , but on my 11 " 1.6 Ghz 4Gb RAM Air I have played Civilization V just fine . Slows down a little as the game progresses , but looks good and plays perfectly acceptably to me .
I have a Dell P2815Q monitor ( nearly 4K ) connected to my MacBookPro Early 2011 running 10.9.4 ( 13E28 )
After consulting AppleCare , I finally solved this issue perfectly . I post my solution here so that the future users may solve it easily when they reach Apple S.X. . Delete two files : and . Then do the NVRAM restarting to your MacBook to reset the audio settings . Detailed steps to do the NVRAM restarting is <URL> . Then , problem solved .
It does run , but Snow Leopard does not install Rosetta by default . Rosetta is needed to run PowerPC applications on Intel Macs . You can install Rosetta from the Snow Leopard disk . I believe you will be prompted to do this when you try to run Photoshop .
The tolerances in the unibody macs are very , very tight and the area is located behind the battery , so Apple does not recommend users without training on servicing the delicate back sides of the battery clean it other than spraying air lightly from the outside . I 've found setting it up vertically and open helps with gravity bringing the grit towards the most open side of the trackpad . ( The part closest to you that swings free and presses on the physical spring . ) It 's not hard to find the tools or the steps - <URL> , but I prefer to take it in to the genius bar for cleaning as long as it 's a convenient trip . If you 're careful , you should be able to get inside the mac and see how much debris is inside and whether it 's worth a trip to the shop or to learn how to clean it better yourself . Getting the back off is all you need following the memory replacement instructions to have a peek .
Go to System Preferences - > Keyboard and , in the Keyboard tab , turn off ( uncheck ) " Automatically illuminate keyboard in low light " . Then , if you turn the brightness down all the way , it should never turn on . If you then want it on ( say , a friend who is not a touch-typist ) , just use the brightness keys on the top row .
If you are using something like the <URL> drive from MCE Tech , you an put either drive in the caddy . I prefer to make a single change at a time , so when I did this I put the new drive in the caddy and left the old working boot drive alone . As for installing from a USB thumb drive ( I assume this is what you meant since you were n't clear ) , you should n't have to . You can download the Mountain Lion installer and run the app . During the install process you can choose what drive to install the OS on , simple choose the newly installed and formatted SSD . Once you have both OS installed , the system will remember the last drive that was selected in the Startup Disk preferences and store that choice in NVRAM so that it will continue to start from the preferred drive . You can hold the option key at boot to prevent this choice and pick from all bootable drives when you want to switch things on a specific boot . Most people find that having two OS internally is confusing . Spotlight will try to find the correct version of Safari if you do n't keep them both updated , but sometimes you end up running the wrong version of an app . This is confusing at best , and troublesome most of the time and can cause data issues when the wrong version of an app opens data it did n't expect from a newer version of iPhoto for instance .
Try saying : " no caps on , no space on " , then spell the word , then say " no caps off , no space off " .
It depends what you mean by : use them both at the same time So , Apple 's usage of two GPUs is based on <URL> . Meaning as a user , you can not " use them both at the same time . " Now , if you 're talking about using them both as a programmer , well then anything is possible , and you <URL> . Most applications written for OSX though will target GPUs using OpenCL , which is Apple 's abstraction of the GPU . This means apps will call on the GPU when needed , and because Apple 's implementation is one GPU at a time ( not both ) , then most apps will only use one , not both . NOTE : This is in regards to using multiple GPU chipsets , not multiple core within a chipset . Obviously OSX and OpenCL can use multiple cores .
Yes , you can . Please take a look at <URL> , which states that the MacBook Pro ( 15-inch , Early 2011 ) can run : The website even provides you with the recommended RAM for your computer . Look at the picture below .
<URL> currently says : " Note for Lion users : There is no official release supporting Mac OS X 10.7 yet , but you can test the <URL> if you like . " I usually do n't upgrade to a new major version of OS X until MacPorts has released their first official support for it . I agree with Jerry Jacobs that you should probably back up your hierarchy before attempting . Then you could try doing to see if that upgrades you from 1.9.2 ( or whatever ) to the 2.0.0 release candidate . If it does , then you can try . I would n't try doing a on Lion without at least being on the 2.0.0 release candidate of MacPorts .
Yes . Hold the & #x 2325 ; key while booting up to select your install USB . Also note that if you upgrade to the most recent version of Lion you should get the recovery partition to boot up without having to use the USB ( internet connection required ) .
You say the MacBook is empty - does this not have any Mac OS on it ? To install from a USB or HDD you will need to open disk utility and from there select the restore option of the dvd with the hard drive or USB as destination , so if it does not have disc utility then no you ca n't , you will need to write a CD/DVD .
Zeroing out the drive is typically done for security purposes , but there is also another benefit to zeroing out an SSD - performance . The firmware of an SSD does a lot of complicated tricks to increase disk performance and reliability , but they become less effective the more data the drive has to retain . Since deleting a file or reformatting a disk does not actually turn the bits on the disk back to zero , the drive firmware must still manage that data . If you zero out the drive , you allow the firmware to stop managing all that data and in turn it 's able to offer better performance on the data that you have .
end question
start question
Move full screen apps ?
No , you ca n't . The only way to achieve some kind of manual ordering is disabling the " Automatically rearrange " option in the Mission Control prefpane , and switching all your apps to fullscreen in the correct order from left to right ( new spaces get added to the right ) . That said , you wo n't be able to move anything left of the first desktop space .
Figured it out : pressing F9 ( Or Fn-F9 if you 're on a MacBook or using a Apple keyboard ) when the Screen Sharing window is active will bring up Mission Control on the remote machine and you can switch between desktops and full screen applications .
It looks like every app determines what to show on its notifications ; I do n't see a global switch . You can , however , turn the lock screen notification off . Find it on Settings > Notifications > [ App ] , look for " Show on lock screen " and turn it off to disallow the app to show its notifications when the phone is locked . Skype does not have the " Show Previews " switch available at the Notifications settings for Messages -- and I ca n't find anything about that subject on the <URL> , but <URL> of <URL> <URL> the <URL> with no response -- so it appears that each app controls what it 's shown on the notification .
An out-of-the-box possibility would be to use Spaces to define applications to go to a specific screen on launch , and navigate between Spaces ( Virtual Desktops ) as a whole . Note , however , that you will have a conflict if you want the Finder to be in two places at once :) . Your only option is one specific Space , or globally across all Spaces .
My suggestions : <URL> -- great app , can record in-game videos , records both microphone and system app , compress video and still fast ; $ 29.95 . QuickTime -- records audio only from system input , supports in-game screen capture , slower then iShowU HD , but still smooth , free and built-in . <URL> -- Ugly interface , very buggy . <URL> -- No demo available ; $ 14.99
Yes and No . The game has to support the ability to run in windowed mode . If it does n't support it , then it will not be able to do it . Now , when it comes to games that do n't have the option in an preference menu , they can sometimes still support the feature , they just do n't advertise it . There are a few games that require you to edit a preference file to enable/disable certain things . Usually contained inside the game icon , right clicking on the game icon and hitting " Show Package Contents " will open the game 's directory and show you the files that make the game . Be very careful when doing this because editing the wrong thing can break the game . Usually if this option exists then it will be somewhere on the internet and you will be able to find out more about it by doing a search for that game . One such game that supports this is Cave Story + , editing the preference file can enable certain game modes and unlock features . Other games will work with a shortcut when running , usually : Now , if none of these are viable options , then you wo n't be able to do it . I hope that helps clarify things .
If it is a bluetooth mouse you can disable it waking the computer by unchecking in System Preferences - Bluetooth - Advanced This will also effect the wireless keyboard waking the Mac so you will need to use the power button to wake it .
As you know , per your question , the preferences in the Preview app only apply to documents when first opened . It seems that OS X has a built in default view for full screen documents . I tried a couple things ... I opened a PDF to Full Screen and set the view to Continuous to see if this would stick and that view would be chosen next time I went full screen . Not the case . I searched every preference file related to Preview ( also using 10.9.2 ) and found no setting even indirectly related to a view setting specifically when in full screen . I 'd say , doing what you want is either not possible at all or at best it 'd require getting into a preference setting somewhere you would n't want to poke around with . My guess would be it 's a setting inside Preview.app 's package contents . Fooling around in there can get hairy As an alternative to setting a new default , the keyboard shortcut to switch to Continuous view is : So you can just quickly hit that each time you go full screen and the view changes immediately . It 's not exactly what you wanted , but it 's a very fast alternative . Hope that helps !
If you do n't have other accounts in Mail.app , simply delete the entire contents of ~ / Library/Mail / If you do have other accounts and only want to remove your Gmail account , open the V2 folder inside the above path , and delete the folder relevant to the particular account that you want removed .
You can switch which monitor is the " Primary " monitor by opening the Displays in Preferences and dragging and dropping the menu bar to your secondary monitor . That should make fullscreen apps use your other monitor .
A tool that might just help you is <URL> . With it , you can read the mouse position using the command , move the mouse using the command , and click using the command . This is a bit of a hack , really , but regarding the multi-monitor support , you can use <URL> , where you can programmatically call Cliclick with the coordinates of the mouse in a different monitor . I 'm sure there are other alternatives , though . I also used Slate to bind the other first calls to Cliclick . The " mouse mode " is a bit tougher . In Slate you can create " modal hotkeys " pressing two hotkeys in succession ( like ^ W in Vim ) , but no support for whole modes . You could , however , dynamically edit the binding file to contain " normal mode " or " mouse mode " bindings each time you change the mode . I did something similar yesterday , so hope this helps . :)
There are potentially a few things happening here . When a computer runs out of available RAM it starts swapping or paging data out of RAM to files on your hard disk . When your Mac was previously saying that it was using 3.98 GB of 4GB it could also potentially have had a lot more data loaded but part of it swapped out to your hard drive . You can find these swapfiles on your Mac in called and , etc. . Similar to Windows where you 'll find a file called , typically in the root of the C drive . If your Mac is actively storing data in swapfiles you 'll see the amount that is being used listed in Activity Monitor as " Swap Used " . Compressed memory is a newer concept where the operating system tries to get the most out of physical memory by compressing the least-recently-used contents of RAM before resorting to paging out , but it can only go so far . Once it ca n't compress anything else it 'll start paging out to swapfiles . Another thing that could be happening that might explain why your upgraded machine is sitting at 7.5 GB of 8GB used , is that once you close applications and files the operating system does n't immediately release that space in RAM . It 'll store that data in a file cache , until it needs to use that space for something else , so that if you decide to open the same files again it can open them almost instantly . You can see this in action where you start up your Mac and it takes maybe five-ten seconds to launch an application the first time , but if you close it and open it a second time it opens much much faster , because that data was never released from RAM . You can also see the size of the " File Cache " value listed in Activity Monitor . So it could be that 5GB of your RAM is the stuff you are actually using right now , and 2.5 GB is stuff that you were using recently and your Mac is keeping handy just in case . There is more going on with memory management than just these things , but these are the ones that I think most likely explain what you 're seeing . Chances are before the upgrade you Macbook was using more than 4GB because some data was paged out to swapfiles , and now your Macbook could be actually using less than 8GB but using up the free space with a file cache that allows it to quickly reopen things you recently closed .
Try <URL> . I replaced the built-in apps switcher with this utility which lets me to view full screen windows including a feature to search active windows by title .
You can add the Lock Screen to your Menubar . In Spotlight ( ⌘ + Space ) search for Open Preferences ( ⌘ + , ) Check This will show a lock in your Menu Bar with an option ( Optional ) > > or Tab In the or section , add a new item for with the Menu Title of and a Keyboard shortcut that you like . This way you do n't have to change your Screensaver timeout and you can lock your machine much like you do in windows . Note that You may also need to Logout and back in for any changes to the shortcut to take effect .
No , because the capture is capturing the pixels that comprise the selected area , not the ' screen ' as it is displayed to you . It 's something I 've wished for in the past , too .
Turns out , according to several sources you ca n't do it . You would need to separate the lines ( i.e. not use connection lines ) .
You can go into Mission Control ( formerly known as Expose in Snow Leopard ) , then drag the window from your current desktop the thumbnail of the other desktop , which will be at the top of the screen .
The current version of Google Chrome for Mac ( 14.0.835.202 ) is not correctly supporting this behavior , even when the System Preference to " Restore windows when quitting and re-opening apps " is selected in the General Preferences pane ( like the Mail app or Safari does ) . There is an open bug ticket on this issue with Google so at some point the " remember full screen state after close " should be resolved . Here is the bug report link : <URL>
As bogdansrc mentioned , Gatekeeper only applies to application bundles that have a extended attribute . Some applications ( like μTorrent ) do n't add them to the files they download , and some unarchiving programs ( like ) do n't add them to files after extracting archives . You can list extended attributes with . Gatekeeper is also disabled if you have disabled with for example .
It sounds like you probably activated the " Application Windows " feature of Mission Control ( previously Exposé ) in an app that did n't have any windows open . It looks like this if you have no windows in that app open : The list of files are recently opened files in that application ( in this case , TextEdit ) . How you opened it depends on your particular setup . You can set a keyboard shortcut for it in System Preferences under Mission Control , but I think there are also gestures . I do n't have a Magic Mouse or Trackpad with gesture support handy , so I ca n't confirm exactly what may have activated it for you . Look through the Mouse panel in System Preferences for any reference to Exposé or " Show Application Windows " or similar for an idea of what exactly activated it .
end question
start question
Can I virtualize Lion on Apple hardware running Linux without violating the EULA ?
Unfortunately you can not virtualize OS X Lion under any other OS except OS X Lion . It 's not enough that it 's running on Apple hardware . The <URL> says : Section 2 , Sub-Section B : ( iii ) to install , use and run up to two ( 2 ) additional copies or instances of the Apple Software within virtual operating system environments on each Mac Computer you own or control that is already running the Apple Software . Bolding is mine and it highlights the relevant passage that prevents you from virtualizing OS X on Apple hardware where the host OS is not also OS X.
<URL> ( $ 99 ) Lets you capture , copy , convert , share and burn discs or <URL> ( open source ) again does the same but a more basic version which is free .
There is an app called AutoAnswer , but it only works on jailbroken phones . If you 're into that sort of thing , you can find an article on it here : <URL>
The command-line tool can be helpful for this , but learning to use it is a bit tricky . Running will return a list of all available service types that currently being advertised . ( The list is per interface , so there will be some redundancy . ) If this is done on a Mac with no active network connection , the list will of course only contain services running on that machine . Using that list , you can request information about the individual services types by running things like ( which lists iTunes Home Sharing instances ) , and then , given an instance name , you can run to lookup information for a particular instance . To be honest , though , this whole process is rather tedious , and it 's exactly what <URL> was built to do , so I highly recommend using that . ( The app might be ancient , but it still works . ) Whichever way you do it , though , it may not always be clear what program is responsible for a given service entry . You can use the strategy given in <URL> to try to map service entries to running processes based on port number , but this may not always work . Another strategy is to run something like which remains open and reports when instances are added or removed , then , one by one , quit various apps and ( assuming it 's not a system service ) see which one 's quitting triggers the removal message .
The Apple Hardware Test only detects problems with the computer 's internal hardware components ( logic board , memory and wireless components ) not external components nor software-related problems . If the AHT displays an error it will be a hardware failure of any kind , which , in most of the cases , will be solved by replacing the component . So if you were to contact any Technical Support regarding this issue , providing this information could be helpful but most likely unnecessary .
These steps assume that you already have purchased OS X 10.9 through the Mac App Store . Open the Mac App Store Press the Alt Key and hold it during the following steps Click at the purchased tab Scroll to OS X Mavericks Click at the Download button If you already have OS X Mavericks installed , you will be asked if you want to continue Click continue Now , you can release the Alt Key To get the dmg file : 1 . Go to the downloaded install application in the applications folder 2 . Control + click on the installer , and choose Show Package Contents , and choose Show Package Contents . 3 . Navigate to 4 . The file you are looking for is called If you need a file , you have to <URL>
I think I psoted the question a little too ealry . Anywyas here is exactly what I was looking for : Settings >> General >> Accessibility >> Guided Acess >> Turn the guided access on and also enable the sleep/wake button . You could put in a password now or later ( when you turn it on using the triple trigger and start guided access it will prompt you for a passcode ) Enjoy !
They point to 4.3.3 because that 's the last version that supported an untethered jailbreak . Any version after 4.3.3 can not be jailbroken : <URL>
It appears that at present , that is n't an option . When I created a signature file using the FaceTime camera , I see that first of all , there is no unencrypted graphic file created by Preview . Preview did a new key in Keychain titled " Preview signature privacy " , suggesting that the signature files go directly from Preview 's camera interface to an encrypted file . There is n't a supported way to add a graphic as a signature , and the encryption makes it difficult to bypass the approved new signature process .
No destruction will happen - This repartitioning you propose is possible to safely do . The recovery partition wo n't modify itself ( since it 's in use ) and will survive attempts to erase itself when it 's in charge . You also can resize things in general when booted from the main OS as long as files that are stored in the area being trimmed are mobile and not in-use or locked . You have to enable a debug mode for Disk Utility to see and work on the Recovery HD so it 's planned to be something you have to know a trick and go out of your way to tamper with . ( Note : Debug mode is removed in 10.11 with the redesigned Disk Utility app )
Go to settings > General > Accessibility > Scroll down > AssistiveTouch Turn it on . Then you just click the home button and it gives you the option of screenshot if you do this : Click device > More > Screenshot and you are done !
Reboot your Mac . When you hear the boot chime , hold the COMMAND + R keys . You will enter the Lion Recovery environment . From there , simply choose to reinstall Lion . It will simply remove the current system and replace it with a fresh copy . None of your data will be deleted or moved . The only thing that will be replaced will be the core system files . There is no longer any need to make backups , migrate your data , or mess with partitioning . If you 'd like to read more about the Lion Recovery function , go here : <URL>
Command ⌘ + Option + Esc opens the " Force Quit Application " dialog , which lets you select and kill running applications . If that does not work , Command ⌘ + Option + Shift + Esc held down for 5 seconds kills the foremost application .
Not true - mean sure can install apps from dmg . The Lion remain a full-blown OS , with all common functions , like Terminal.app , root access , Developer system , and so on . When here is no way block installing applications if you will have a root access , so Apple sure will NOT TRY do this . The following is only my opinion : On the other side - most of developers will sell their apps via AppStore ( because it is easy ) , so here will be less " demo downloads " ( what was possible activated by simple serial # ) . IMHO , over the time will be here more and more application in AppStore in two versions , like for example : SudokuLite.app ( like current demo versions ) - free , Sudoku.app ( full paid version )
You can change terminal only with this one command to write a new preference for that specific app . This is general , so of course , substitute safari or quicktimeplayerX or whatever in the portion of the command as needed . This setting switches the default save behavior upon quitting that one app . You 'll find many of the other apps that work well with this setting by <URL> . Of course , you should issue this command after closing all windows and then quitting the application to ensure the settings are read the next time Terminal starts .
I have been using the Apple Bluetooth keyboard for ~ 5 years , and I am pretty happy with it . It is pretty sturdy and even after such long time and ~ 8 hrs daily usage , I would n't notice any significant sign of wear . One advantage is that it is the same keyboard layout as on the MacBooks , which may be more convenient when switching back and forth between the external and in-built keyboard . A disadvantage is that it does n't have background illumination , but it only really matters if you work in a rather dark environment . I also saw a logitech keyboard at a Best Buy once which looked almost exactly like the Apple Bluetooth keyboard , except that it was plastic , not aluminum ; the price was about the same , and it also almost felt like the same ; however , I ca n't say anything about its long-term durability . EDIT : I forgot to mention that I spilled water over it a couple of times , and one time it was half a glass of coke . I turned it off , took out the batteries , and put it under running water in my sink for about 10 minutes ( I was afraid that it 'd be sticky if it would still work at all afterwards ) . Next , I let it dry for about 1 1/2 weeks and used a spare mechanical keyboard instead ( which I really love too ) . However , the Apple Bluetooth keyboard turned out to be fine eventually . Sorry , I ca n't really comment on the CD/DVD drive : I have n't used any for a decade or so .
<URL> . It can also tell you when the coverage ends and help you setup an appointment to get your problem looked in to . You 'll need to know the serial number for your Apple product to look up the coverage . There 's <URL> for all the different bits of hardware Apple makes .
It is not possible to browse the App Store . But if you have a link , such as <URL> , then you can view the app description in your browser .
The first generation Apple TV had a pretty low powered Intel CPU , as you can see in the <URL> . So in theory , you should be able to run just about any Linux distro , just a question of how much hacking you 're willing to do . There are a bunch of resources for doing this , but a good one is at the <URL> . There are tools to create a nice USB stick that should do most of the work for you . As for how useful it is , do n't expect much for general purpose computing - after all it 's a 1 GHz Pentium-M with 256 MB of RAM . But it may do reasonably well for some home theatre tasks , or if you need a home automation server or similar box .
You can enable SSH from the Terminal with : ( note that you need to run this as an admin , and it 'll ask for your admin password , which wo n't echo as you type . )
end question
start question
Macbook air would n't turn on until after I reset the SMC . Does this indicate any further problems ?
Resetting the SMC usually solves power-related problems ( fan handling , sleep mode , etc ) . The procedure is quite simple and documented , meaning that such problems are quite common and usually do not indicate the existence of anything worth worrying about . Actually , it is advisable to reset the SMC and PRAM ( start up with Command , Option , P , R pressed ) periodically ; also , while you 're at it , you might want to repair disk permissions ( using Disk Utility in the Utilities folder ) and verify the Hard Disk as well . If you keep your Mac well maintained , it will remain healthy for a long time : my MacBook Pro is 4 1/2 years old and still rocking thanks to an SSD upgrade ;)
It appears to work according to several reports : <URL> There has been some concern that Apple lists the MacBook Pro models on its web site as having an SDXC card slot , for high-capacity SD cards , and only lists the card reader on the Air as an SD card one . We tried a 64GB SanDisk SDXC card in the MacBook Air 's card reader , and the system recognised it as the appropriate size and was able to access files on it . However , if you 're looking to get a massive SD card in order to augment the smallish 128GB SSD built into the Air , note that the card slot leaves the SD card hanging halfway out on the side of the system , so it 's not appropriate for full-time use . <URL> I got my Transcend SDXC 64GB flash card , and yes , it reads and writes perfectly in my MacBook Air . <URL> it uses the <URL> which is a USB 2.0 high speed device ( 480mbps ) and supports up to 2TB SDXC cards .
This issue has been removed with the latest Chrome update ( 18.0.1025.142 ) . You can read more about the update here : <URL>
The Install App that you download from the Mac App Store is a universal installer that is n't tied to a specific model/build . Similar to the retail installation discs from earlier operating system releases . It will install properly on any supported systems that meet the <URL> . So yes , as long as the installer is from the Mac App Store then you should be able to copy it to a thumb drive and install it on any supported Macs .
This might help : <URL> When you boot up on a fresh install you can run the OS X migration process to restore from Time Machine . Unlike Windows you should be fine just restarting from the system disk though . All the necessary drivers are built in . If your new disk has stuff on it , you can boot from it and run Migration Assistant from Utilities to copy your user directory from Time Machine . Also , you should clarify , are you adding an SSD ( e.g. into the optical slot ) or are you replacing the existing drive ? If you 're replacing it you 'll need a way to copy the data , i.e. from Time Machine .
It should be turned on automatically . If you go into the settings for the Windows XP virtual image , then click advanced , you 'll see a field for Preferred virtualization engine . It should be set to " Automatic " by default , but if you want to force Intel VT , you can select one of those options . If you 're lagging , something else might be to blame . Does Console say anything and how much memory do you have installed ?
I created a bootable USB stick with my Windows Vista DVD . I followed the instructions on <URL> .
Looks like I fixed it . The problem was , that I divided my disk onto three logical disks . And system was confused , which one to be used for booting . When I chose Startup Disk in System preferences ( even though there was only one option ) the laptop wakes up normally . ( I had no problems during three days )
Do n't stress about it so much . A Battery cycle refers to , more or less , one mostly full discharge and recharge . Typically , your battery should be rated for somewhere in the neighborhood of 1000 cycles . Eventually , the battery just wo n't hold a charge for as long as it did when it was new , but that 's why batteries are <URL> It 's a consumable part . If it dies prematurely ( which is the only thing you should really need to pay attention to cycles for ) , then it 's covered under your warranty . The ' Battery Cycles ' indicator is mainly there so that you can diagnose this . If , in a years time , your laptop 's battery only lasts half as long as it did when it was new , but you 've only used say , 400 cycles , well , that 's not performing up to spec , and it should be covered under your warranty . If you 've used 1500 cycles ( doing that in a year would be some pretty heavy and impressive use though , I 've got ta say ) , well , that 's to be expected . You used your battery a lot , and it wore out . Use your laptop as normal . Battery cycles are not a scarce and precious resource to be hoarded . 12 cycles in about a week and a half sounds pretty normal for a new laptop being used heavily to me . That 's about , what ? 6 hours/day unconnected to a power source ? If you 're using it on the go , that 's a perfectly reasonable amount of consumption .
I have been running Mavericks for about two weeks and I have n't noticed any apps that were deleted during the install . Some of Apple 's apps may be updated during the upgrade , but I 'm not aware of anything that gets deleted .
Four vents exist on the retina Macbook Pro 15 " . Two vents exist on the non-retina Macbook Pro 15 " , 17 " models . One vent only on the Macbook Air 11 " &amp; 13 " and non-retina Macbook Pro 13 " . The outflow vents are located right ' between ' the display and keyboard on the vertical rear face of the unibody frame . Shine a light on the display hinge from above and below and you can see the little holes best when looking down along the display from a very steep angle . While the non-retina MBP take all of the inflowing air from the remaining space next to the outflow vents of the display hinge - the retina Macbook Pro has an additional two vents for air intake on the side where external ports are located . Apple has done an amazing job at the dB noise they make when idle ( ~ 2000rpm ) . When the fans kick in because of heavy CPU/GPU usage you 'll definitely hear them . They will go up to ~ 6000rpm . Tracking fan RPM with software will be your best method to know if the case you have is insulating the frame . Increased idle fan speed will compensate for a case that insulates the frame and traps heat from below . The unibody frame in in close thermal contact with the CPU/GPU so a good proportion of the idle heat actually escapes through the keyboard and topcase . You might also be interested in <URL> . [ <URL> ]
Yes - all computer batteries from Apple ( including the newer unibody models where the battery is not consumer replaceable ) are easily swapped in a 10 minute procedure to open , inspect , replace , test and document the repair . Of course , your wait time might be longer if no one is free to start work immediately or the part needs to be retrieved from a nearby stock room . If the part is n't in stock , Apple should be able to quote you a delivery time to order the part , and discuss if you want to leave the Mac for service , choose mail in service or leave with your mac and return later to get the repair done as same - or next-day service once the part and the Mac are in the shop together . Since you called AppleCare and explained your symptoms , my guess is they can not run the diagnostics remotely to establish a true failure ( or if you agree to pay for the repair ) and pre-order the part before you present the Mac for repair in the store . My experience is each store has sufficient stock to do several repairs of a battery type , but that being said , I 've also gone in on a busy day where they had three machines needing the same part as I and I was the third in line and therefore had the option of leaving the Mac or waiting for the part to arrive . Worst case , you get a diagnosis and do n't leave the machine in for repair , but have options to pre-order the part when you return or find another store . If the store mails in your Mac for repair , often it can get overnighted to a return location of your choosing and clearly wherever they ship the machine will be same day service for an in-stock battery at the main repair depot .
I ordered a cheap Mini DisplayPort to HDMI cable from eBay ( less than $ 5 , including transport ) and it works perfectly , including sound . The only thing needed is to configure the audio output source to TV instead of the internal speakers ( you only need to do this once ; after that , it will remember the setting and switch automatically once connected to the TV ) . To change the audio source , option click on the speaker icon on the menu bar , go to the Output tab and choose your TV .
Yes - from <URL> comes the text : The built-in battery of your MacBook , MacBook Pro or MacBook Air is designed to deliver up to 1000 full charge and discharge cycles before it reaches 80 percent of its original capacity . I have been bowled over at how well the internal battery chemistry holds up over time . Of course , bad batteries fail prematurely all the time and need to be swapped , but my gut feel is way more of these " go the distance " than all the older removable batteries .
Quoting from <URL> , from Apple 's website : Touch ID only allows five unsuccessful fingerprint match attempts before you must enter your passcode , and you ca n't proceed until doing so . You then get ten attempts at your passcode before the device erases , but these are counted separately from attempts to authenticate with Touch ID . This is slightly different from the other answer : After three attempts , the iPhone will present the passcode screen , but you can still have two more tries at authenticating with Touch ID . After five attempts , Touch ID is disabled until you successfully enter your passcode . Apple 's security documents do n't mention a setting to erase the device after failed Touch ID attempts , and I 'm not aware of one . I do n't believe that iOS devices would erase themselves after five unsuccessful attempts , at least not with the current version of iOS .
If you have a USB Flash Drive of 8 GB of size , you can make a Lion Installer and use it to securely erase the Drive . <URL> You can also make a USB Bootable Recovery Disk as explained here by Apple : <URL> Once you have done either you can hold down the key while restarting your computer and booting from it . When it loads up , it will give you a few different options , you will need to use the Disk Utility part and highlight your HD and choose the Erase Tab . Under the erase settings will be a security option when you can write the disk to 0 once or even multiple times . There is a guide on it here : <URL> See the part where it says How to Zero erase and install OS X I hope that helps you out . Updated The guy at the bottom of this post : <URL> points out a work around to securely erase the SSD drive in the MacBook Air through encryption . This is what he says : cmace127 I found a workaround . Restart the computer and hold option to enter the setup screen . Go into disk utility and select the drive . Erase the drive using " Mac OS Extended ( Case-sensitive , Journaled , Encrypted ) . Make a password for the encryption , it does n't matter what it is because you wo n't need it . Hit " Erase " . Now select the volume and the " Erase Free Space " and " Security Options " buttons should no longer be grayed out . Click and select your level of security and off you go . I presume " Erase Free Space " and " Security Options " should do the same thing because you just erased the drive so all space is considered free . This worked for me so let me know if it helps . Let me know if that 's works , this should securely erase the drive since it will then be encrypted . Also , in the future with lion be sure to use File Vault 2 so that you do n't have to worry about this again .
Whilst the device hardware does support Wi-Fi Direct , the limitation in this case is software . There is currently no software on iOS that connects to a wireless hard drive through Wi-Fi Direct , but that has n't stopped apps being developed to take advantage of this -- Seagate has an app that connects to wireless hard drives : <URL>
After replacing the macbook air for the key " 9 " broken after one day , they replaced the keyboard for free last week for the second issue ( the key " t " not working well ) . Great
To uninstall AdobeAIR by hand , quit any unnecessary applications ( specially applications that might use AdobeAIR ) . Then delete the following files and folders . / Applications/Adobe/Flash Player/AddIns/airappinstaller ( alternatively remove the / Applications/Adobe folder - first checking that its sub-folders do not contain files other than AdobeAIR files . ) / Applications/Utilities/Adobe AIR Application Installer.app / Applications/Utilities/Adobe AIR Uninstaller.app / Library/Frameworks/Adobe AIR.framework / Users/Shared/Library / Application Support/Adobe/AIR ( alternatively remove the / Users/Shared/Library folder - first checking that its sub-folders do not contain files other than AdobeAIR files . ) The following files are in your Home Folder ( represented by ' ~ ' ) . You can access this Library folder by holding down ⌥ while accessing the Finder menu Go > Library . ~ / Library/Application Support/Adobe/AIR ( alternatively remove the ~ / Library/Application Support/Adobe folder - first checking that its sub-folders do not contain files other than AdobeAIR files . ) ~ / Library/Caches/com . adobe.air.ApplicationInstaller ~ / Library/Caches/com . adobe.air.Installer ~ / Library/Preferences/com . adobe.air.ApplicationInstaller.plist ~ / Library/Preferences/com . adobe.air.ApplicationInstaller.plist.lockfile ~ / Library/Preferences/Macromedia / Flash Player / #Security / FlashPlayerTrust/air .1.0 . trust.cfg ~ / Library/Preferences/Macromedia / Flash Player/www . macromedia.com/bin/airappinstaller These files were found by scanning the file system before and after installing the latest version of AdobeAIR to see the file changes that were made .
These are for decreasing and increasing the brightness of the keyboard backlight . When the system senses low light and the keyboard is allowed to illuminate , the keys will work . Otherwise , they silently do nothing at all .
end question
start question
Is there no such thing as Microsoft Internet Explorer for Mac OS X ?
Microsoft Internet Explorer for Mac is not available for the latest OS X versions ( beyond OS X 10.4 ) as it was effectively replaced by Safari in 2003 . As the Wikipedia page for <URL> explains : As a result of the five-year agreement between Apple and Microsoft in 1997 , it was the default browser on Mac OS and Mac OS X from 1998 until it was replaced by Apple 's own Safari web browser in 2003 . On June 13 , 2003 , Microsoft announced that it was ceasing further development of Internet Explorer for Mac and the final update was released on July 11 , 2003 . The browser was not included in the default installation of Mac OS X v10 .4 " Tiger " which was released on April 29 , 2005 . Microsoft discontinued support for the product on December 31 , 2005 and removed the application from their Macintosh downloads site on January 31 , 2006 . Microsoft recommends " that users migrate to more recent web browsing technologies such as Apple 's Safari . " Your best bet is to download the <URL> and run it in a Virtual Machine ( using something like <URL> or <URL> ) . Alternatively , the OSXDaily article on <URL> describes a way to do this ( I 've not used it myself , but this does appear to circumvent the Windows 30-day trial period by using snapshots and possibly to comply with the EULA you should purchase a Windows licence and use that in a VM with a downloaded version of IE , as above , instead ) : We 're going to walk you through how to install Internet Explorer 7 , 8 , or 9 in a virtual machine running Windows , directly in Mac OS X -- for free . This is achieved by using the freely available VirtualBox software from Oracle , and combining that with free Internet Explorer testing virtual machines from Microsoft , the trick is converting these free IE vm 's so that they work flawlessly under OS X ( or Linux , technically ) , and that is all handled automatically with this method .
<URL> provides at least part of the functionality you are looking for . Timing is the best way to keep track of the time you spend with your Mac . Find out where your time goes - without ever having to start a timer again ! Timing automatically tracks which documents you are editing , which applications you use , and the domains of the websites you visit . Afterwards , just drag and drop activities into projects . There are some default categories , but you are free to customize them !
I 'm using <URL> on my Mac and iPhone for pretty much all my note-taking . It automatically syncs notes between computers/devices , so might not be for you if you only want local notes . I find it 's really convenient for accessing my notes everywhere , though . It does n't look like big sticky notes , instead you get a list view of your notes with a preview , from which you can open the entire note . I find it really pretty , but it might not be the aestethic you 're after . Edit : Forgot to mention that I use the <URL> widget on my Macs . There are other options as well , but they mainly come as stand-alone programs .
Depending on your technical inclination , you might want to try <URL> , or install something like <URL> .
As mentioned by the other comments , Apple 's default partition scheme is to have everything on ONE partition . While not recommended ( potentially due to not being easy to do ) , it is possible to move a home folder to a different partition . Here is how : Create a partition to use for the home folder ( Disk Utility is the built-in choice to do so ) enable the root user open System Preferences click on Users &amp; Groups click on Login Options open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner click on " Join " next to Network Account Server click on " Directory Utility " from the menu " Edit " click " Enable Root Account " and supply a password for that account log out of the current to-be-moved user choose " Other " at the login screen type in into the username field and supply the password you just gave it navigate to your other partition and create a base home folder ( to use Apple 's naming convention , create a folder named " Users " ) navigate to the system 's Users folder and copy the user 's home folder over to the other partition . open System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner right-click ( or Ctrl + click ) the user you want to move and choose " Advanced Options " for the field " Home directory " , either click the button " Choose " ( if it is there ) and select the new path or type in the new path . If you type it in , the path starts with Important : Use the proper capitalization as depicted on your system or you may run into problems Do NOT change anything else on that form ( e.g. user ID ) or you may end up not be able to log in or use the system with the other user click on " OK " restart your computer holding down the Alt key until you see boot options on the screen choose the recovery option ( e.g. " Recovery HD-10 .10 " ) choose the language when asked from the menu " Utilities " choose Terminal type in and hit Enter choose the hard drive you normally use to boot from choose your user Click on " Reset " at the bottom of that window to reset permissions reboot your system normally and try to log in to your user If this is working for you as expected , here is the clean-up : remove your user account folder from the system drive ( to save disk space on your system drive ) disable the root user again to improve system security ( follow the same steps as outlined above and choose " Disable Root User " ) this time In case it is not working ( though I would understand that it will ) , you can use root to log in and move the home directory back to where it was using System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > Advanced Options ( right-click on that user ) . I hope this guide helps .
Nobody 's mentioned Apple Mail . I love it , particularly the Lion version .
I ended up going with Snow Leopard because Leopard itself was slow ( SL offers countless improvements in how it is built , for Intel Macs only ) , and Tiger , as reminiscent at it would have been to use it , did n't have Time Machine ( which admittedly was n't a requirement in the original question ) . The reason why I did n't go for Lion is because I would n't be able to have it in it 's best iteration : Mountain Lion is reported as superior in speed ( but not compatible with this MacBook ) . Snow Leopard is running fast and smooth , and personally , I think it 's the best fit for this machine .
If this is a hobby and you are not planning on releasing any apps to the app store , and you can tolerate the slow performance and do n't care about running on real devices , then do n't worry about it . However , if you are creating a business the it is essential to run on real hardware . Any low end Mac ( MacBook Air 11 " , is my current favorite ) will blow away any virtual machine . I have a fairly simple app that runs fine on my iPad and iPod Touch , but has all sorts of graphic anomalies in the simulator .
There is a website ( <URL> ) . But this will only work with iOS < = 5.0.1 .
YES it 's installed by default . It 's in the installation options where users can tick or untick to install X11 . But by default it 's ticked in 10.5 , 10.6 and 10.7
After many hours finding for something at least useful to my problem , I found a website called <URL> , which provides a lot of common Mac OS " defaults write " commands . Anyway , thank Tony and drfrogsplatless for giving me clarifications and tips that were helpful to me .
Microsoft has released a version of <URL> It is available in the App Store for users with OS X 10.9 or later .
The closest thing I know of is <URL> . HackPorts was developed as a penetration testing framework with accompanying tools and exploits that run natively on Mac platforms . HackPorts is a ' super-project ' that leverages existing code porting efforts , security professionals can now use hundreds of penetration tools on Mac systems without the need for Virtual Machines .
You can not legally install OS X on VMware Workstation or Virtualbox and VMware has checks to prevent it . You have to hack it to get it to work and we do n't provide hacks here . You can read more about it <URL> .
Already asked at <URL> ( Credits to the OP ) . I post the answer here again - slightly modified : There is no version of VMware Player for OS X. Instead , VMware sells a Mac version of their product called <URL> . You may use it as trial version 30 days for free If you do n't want to purchase VMware Fusion , you can : Use Boot Camp to some other OS . The OS itself should run fine . Use Boot Camp and run vmplayer from the other OS . ( Untested since I do not have a OS/X host ) Use <URL> . VirtualBox can use virtual hard disks in VMware 's VMDK format ( <URL> ) .
There are several options you can use here . They can do practically the same : <URL> : It 's an app which will allow you to create watchlist and share them with your friends . And you can even write reviews for movies and share them with your friends . <URL> : My personal favorite since it has the biggest library and community . You can watch trailers , share items , see actors , make cross-references , share movies with your friends and make watchlists . I personally enjoy using this app ! And something out of category : <URL> : Here you can check into movies/books/shows / music / ... you saw/read/watched / listened . And you can follow your friends and by so , see what they 've been up to . It 's not really what you want , but it 's the closest I could find !
A suitable alternative maybe seen in <URL> , an easy-to-use page layout application for desktop publishing on Mac , allowing the creation of professional quality documents with ease , including newsletters , brochures , adverts to name but a few . <URL> &amp; a <URL> also aid novices to the most experienced of users . It is considered an excellent resource for those who bemoan the fact that MS Publisher is not available on the Mac platform . From Apple 's <URL> it is $ 17.99 . Purchasing directly from the website above however gives a 30 day free trial period .
OS X Software for Editing XML <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( free/open source plugin ) for <URL> ( shareware ) <URL> ( commercial )
On my Mac mini under OS X 10.6.5 , a gives me Java 1.6.0 _ 22 . It 's an out of box + upgrade from 10.6.4 to 10.6.5 and installation of last Xcode 3 .
I think this issue is specific to Lion . You ca n't even get to the info screen for an Exchange calendar , to make the colour choice shown in the screen shots here . Googling , I turned up the following Applescript to accomplish the task :
end question
start question
A C/C + + IDE for OS X that is n't Xcode ?
<URL> . But , if you 're dead set on an IDE , the standard for open source , free IDEs is <URL> . For C and C++ development , <URL> which gives you all of its heavyweight IDE-type things for your C and C++ code : introspection , code completion , refactoring tools , syntax highlighting , debugger integration and so on . It 's been around a long time now and is both stable and robust . The CDT Project provides a fully functional C and C++ Integrated Development Environment based on the Eclipse platform . Features include : support for project creation and managed build for various toolchains , standard make build , source navigation , various source knowledge tools , such as type hierarchy , call graph , include browser , macro definition browser , code editor with syntax highlighting , folding and hyperlink navigation , source code refactoring and code generation , visual debugging tools , including memory , registers , and disassembly viewers .
You can easily install by typing the following : To be able to install it , you need <URL> installed and <URL> . To install type : To enable type :
Since this topic popped up again , several months later , I 'll add a quick and impolite answer : No , you can not install 10.7 on any Mac that does not have an Intel processor . All releases of OS X starting with 10.6 require Intel processors .
You could try <URL> It helped me troubleshoot my battery issues . I 'm not sure it will do exactly what you asked for but when you have it running ( on battery or power adapter ) : MiniBatteryLogger monitors your laptop 's battery , traces the graph of charge and amperage over time , compares your battery with other users , logs relevant power events and alerts you with Growl notifications . And right now it 's even free : We are undergoing some changes and can not issue licenses . ... In the meantime , you can use this evaluation key : <URL>
I use Espresso on a daily basis . You 'll need to the <URL> and the <URL> to get the code completion . Espresso also have a preview functionality that helps a lot in developing a page with minute differences .
I looked around for something like <URL> a while back but everything I found was pretty horrid . In the end I decided to just use and on the command line .
This sounds like the app <URL> which is available on Mac OS X and iOS . It allows you to use a mixture of natural language and spreadsheet/calculator functions to perform easily readable equations .
If you have ' Use all F1 , F2 keys as standard functions ' unchecked , that 's the behaviour . With or without the Cmd key , F10 mutes . Incidentally , so does Ctrl/F10 or Shift/F10 . <URL>
<URL> is a free , cocoa-based UI for SSH tunnel management . Works on 10.5 and up . It has n't been updated in a while but the code that 's there is reasonably stable . It 's worked well for me in the past .
If you have saved it previously , open ( located in or via Spotlight ) and search for the wifi network name . If you have found it , check the lowest checkbox to reveal the password . You need your login password to do so .
Submitting apps built with beta versions of an OS or beta versions of Xcode are not officially supported , but you can <URL> by changing the OS version prior to archiving the app inside Xcode .
AppleScript to Expand Text The following AppleScript snippet adds a space between each character of a string . Copy and paste this code in Applications > Utilities > Script Editor to try it out : Automator Service Using this script , you can use Applications > Automator to create your context menu service . <URL> <URL> Launch Automator.app Create a new workflow , select Service Add a Run AppleScript action Copy and paste in the script : Select Output replaces selected text Save and test your new service
Control - is not a part of the set of <URL> . It is not directly representable as a keystroke in many terminal emulations . Such a keystroke is only properly detectable in certain platform-specific " scancode modes " or " GUI mode " ( where the API tells you exactly which keys and modifiers are being used ) . Your terminal emulator is beeping because it is effectively an invalid keystroke . The standard control codes only cover " Control " versions of -- ( ASCII 0 - 31 ) , and ( ASCII 127 ) In most terminal emulator programs running with most US key layouts you may need to press Shift to generate some of the " Control codes " : C - @ is ControlShift2 ( since is Shift2 ) C - ^ is ControlShift6 ( since is Shift6 ) C - _ is ControlShift - ( since is Shift - ) However , C - ? may not always be ControlShift / ( since is Shift / ) ; C - ? is usually generated by either Backspace ( on Apple keyboards , the key labeled just " delete " without the additional symbol ⌦ ) or Delete ( the one with ⌦ on Apple keyboards ) . In tty-based Emacs , you can usually use C - _ for instead of C - / .
I used Open Office , it does the job ok . No crashes , quite feature complete . However if you really do n't want to pay anything for an office suite , I 'd go for Google Docs . If you do want to pay , then definitely go for iWork . It 's the only one that 's fully integrated with OS X ( especially if you have Lion ) .
Unfortunately no . I am running a setup with a 2016 MacBook Pro , the Thunderbolt 3 to Thunderbolt 2 adapter and a 2013 iMac 27 " .
To get a free C/C + + compiler you have to download Xcode . It includes two C compilers ; clang ( the compiler Apple currently supports ) and an old version of gcc . ( Note current versions of Xcode > = 5 I think only have clang ) Make sure you install the command line tools if you want to use the compilers from outside Xcode . ( These command line tools also seem to be available from Apple 's <URL> if you register but I would get them via Xcode unless you have a very good reason and understand the difference ) . All other compilers I know of use one of these two compilers and their binary tools to set themselves up . ( e.g. package management systems like macports , fink and homebrew need these command line tools to run parts of their infrastructure as well as to compiler their ports - however these package managers include ports of other c compilers e.g. newer versions of gcc . ) IDEs like Eclipse use these command line compilers to do the building of programs . There are some commercial compilers like <URL> but I do not know if these require Xcode or are C compilers .
I can only say that this is true . Mail.app has to be open to get notifications . A workaround : Open Mail , and close it with the red dot ( or command + w ) . So the blue point under the icon in the Dock is still there . So you have no window open but mail is still getting emails . There is no app or anything there yet to fix this " problem " .
I 've known it happen if memory was being paged heavily , or if a drive was particularly full . F5 has no effect on a Mac , btw , it 's a Windows command . The only real equivalent - to a system that really ought to never need to be refreshed under normal circumstances - is to switch view style ... ... from list to column then back again , for instance ... Cmd ⌘ 3 then Cmd ⌘ 2
<URL> provides at least part of the functionality you are looking for . Timing is the best way to keep track of the time you spend with your Mac . Find out where your time goes - without ever having to start a timer again ! Timing automatically tracks which documents you are editing , which applications you use , and the domains of the websites you visit . Afterwards , just drag and drop activities into projects . There are some default categories , but you are free to customize them !
Same Answer as given <URL> : Basically you want to use the System Image Utility to create a bootable . dmg you can than put on a USB drive . Have a look at <URL> , it covers this process in detail ( you probably can leave out some steps ) ; this should get you started .
end question
start question
How do I repair permissions of a specific directory ?
Repairing permissions only affects System files , and files installed from a package with the Installer , which give a BOM ( Bill Of Materials , stored in the folder ) that list the expected permissions . There is no meaning in repairing permissions for " a specific directory " , as an arbitrary directory has no expected permissions against which to compare , unless it is one listed in one of the said files . ( just for sourcing : <URL> ;) ) If you want to change permissions of a lot of files at once , for example by having copied them from another drive with permissions , and you encounter problems with them , you could use a tool such as <URL> :)
System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups . Click on your account name in the sidebar and you 'll have the option to change your picture if you mouseover it in the right pane and click edit picture .
On your iPhone : Open the app Go to - > Under the section , wait till it shows the list of apps Click on the app you 're interested in to see the App Version , the App Size and the amount of data it has stored on the device . This works only for third party apps . The Apple provided stock apps will not show this information .
The solution is actually simpler than that . In Calendar preferences , click " Default Calendar " and scroll to the bottom and select " Selected Calendar . " Now , whichever calendar you have highlighted in the sidebar becomes the calendar in which you are working .
I created an Automator application that does what you 're looking for . You can download it <URL> . It 's pretty simple , just drag-and-drop any folder onto the application , it will then find all images in the folder and any subfolders , and prompt you for a destination to copy them to . If you 'd prefer to activate it by a hotkey or the right-click menu , you can make it into a service by following these steps : Open the application in Automator . Choose File → Convert To ... and select Service . Change the first drop-down at the top to folders . Save it and give it a name . Optional : open the Services menu within Keyboard Preferences . You can assign a keyboard shortcut there . Once you 've done that , you should be able to activate the service by right clicking on any folder , or hitting your shortcut key with a folder selected .
You can do it with this script : This will return something like this : And the final result :
Library like many of the folders that exist in the root of your home folder have special permissions . I have better luck selecting all inside the folder , trashing them , then restoring all in place . Working inside the folder is less error prone than trying to change the folder itself .
You can SSH into another Mac and use in the shell . Enable remote login in the sharing preferences on the other computer
Its the path of the installer . Most will automatically download in Applications.Notice how at the end of most installers , the finder window pops up with only its contents , and a symlink to your Applications folder for you to drag &amp; drop into it . If an application does not follow that installation structure , its because the developer did n't invest the time to do so .
One commercial app which provides the effective permissions for a user and a selected file or folder is <URL> : In the example below the effective permissions of the file / private/var/log / clamav.log for the user Spotlight are shown . The user Spotlight can neither read nor write data . <URL> Triggering the tab Show or Set Permissions the POSIX permissions/ownership are shown explicitly . <URL>
There 's an access door on the bottom of the Mac which can be unscrewed . For further access , you need to take the glass off , which is fixed with fourteen magnets . Source : <URL>
All files under / System/Library is protected by SIP . So in El Capitan you ca n't do that without disabling it . Boot into Recovery HD , open Terminal under Utilities menu , and type : Restart you computer . Navigate to the kext file , right click Show Package Content . Now go to Contents then you can find the Info.plist file . You might needs to change permission of the file before you can edit it . After you 're done , boot into recovery again . Open Terminal and type : Then reboot and you 're done . Note that your changes might be reverted at a macOS update .
Command & #x 2318 ; - drag them off your menu bar , then you should be able to trash them . You might also want to log out and log back in .
You can do this using the builtin firewall ( it is not the default firewall in Snow Leopard , but it is still included ) . You can configure from the command line , the exact rule set you need depends on your other requirements , but the specific rule in question would be something like : Obviously you will need to adjust that for your specific network . Also , these rules are not persistent , which means you will need to add a script to run them commands every reboot . On the other hand , that means that if you wedge your networking while trying to come up with appropriate rules you can always just reboot to reset the stack . There are plenty of ipfw tutorials on the web ( most of them are aimed at FreeBSD users , but it is the same interface ) .
Login to a different admin account . Delete your account , choosing " Do n't change the home folder " option . Open Terminal and rename your home folder , eliminating the " ( Deleted ) " part -- sudo mv " / Users/yourshortname ( Deleted ) " / Users/yourshortname Unbind your machine ( Login Options tab , at the bottom ) Create a new account with the same short name . Use the existing folder , when you 're prompted . An update to my comment of Sep 6 at 15:24 and part of # 4 -- Apple has just issued a supplemental update that fixes this loophole . The text of their security announcement is : APPLE-SA-2013-10-03-1 OS X v10 .8.5 Supplemental Update OS X v10 .8.5 Supplemental Update is now available and addresses the following : Directory Services Available for : OS X Mountain Lion v10 .8 to v10 .8.5 Impact : A local user may modify Directory Services records with system privileges Description : A logic issue existed in Directory Services 's verification of authentication credentials allowing a local attacker to bypass password validation . The issue was addressed through improved credential validation . CVE-ID CVE-2013-5163 : the rookies of 42
Sounds like your DNS might be hijacked , which could be your router or your Mac . I 'd suggest using OpenDNS for a while to see if the behaviour stops . If it does , then you will need to look at getting your DNS reconfigured . If the behaviour continues then it may be malware but honestly I ca n't think of a single one that would do this .
You can remove all settings and information from your iPhone using " Erase All Content and Settings " in Settings > General > Reset . If that does n't help you can also try the same from iTunes , see <URL> for details . Connect your iPhone to your computer Select it when it appears under Devices Select the Summary tab , and click the Restore button verify to reset to factory settings and erase all data Afterwards you can restore your data again from a previous backup in iTunes .
Steve There is no method on either iPad or iPhone to move an item between folders .
Looks to me like it 's under System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > Click on ' Login Options ' > then click ' Join ' button next to where it says " Network Account Server " . Then the dialog box that comes down allows you to enter the AD domain server there . Click Ok .
Found some interesting solutions in the article <URL> . Someone in the comments of this article mentioned the app <URL> and this seems to be more along the lines of what I was looking for with more a seamless Finder integration and maintaining folder appearance , not sure if it works on just single files the same way , will need to try it . Eg I have a important Tax Documents folder , and now I have a Tax Documents Folder Encrypted , and not now I have a Tax Documents disk image file sitting there instead of a folder .
end question
start question
Want to do clean install of Mavericks - do I need older OS on computer ?
You can install from scratch . To do so : Download the update from the App store . Create an install DVD or an <URL> . Boot from the install drive ( Holding alt or option during boot ) . Using disk utility format the desired partition . Launch the install process on the newly formatted partition . Enjoy the fresh install . Edit : One thing to note is the fact that you do n't have to format the entire hard drive . You can only format the partition containing your OS and do the install on that partition . If you want to install Mavericks on a different partition to allow multi boot ( Mavericks/Mountain Lion ) you can use another partition to do so as long as there is enough free space on it . One important tip to remember is the ability of disk utility at creating additional partitions : Open DiskUtility.app Select the desired hard drive Go to the Partitions tab Under the partitions list click on the add button to create a new partition .
This might help : <URL> When you boot up on a fresh install you can run the OS X migration process to restore from Time Machine . Unlike Windows you should be fine just restarting from the system disk though . All the necessary drivers are built in . If your new disk has stuff on it , you can boot from it and run Migration Assistant from Utilities to copy your user directory from Time Machine . Also , you should clarify , are you adding an SSD ( e.g. into the optical slot ) or are you replacing the existing drive ? If you 're replacing it you 'll need a way to copy the data , i.e. from Time Machine .
It 's not necessary . For more details than you could possibly want , read <URL> by Amit Singh ( author of <URL> ) .
The first part of the sync error message means exactly what it says - your iPhone can only be associated with a single iTunes library . The second half is tricky for people that are analytical , but for most users it 's meant to make them want to back up their phone before they erase it . Regardless of how you choose to copy your content ( sync manually or automatic ) it maintains a connection to a single library to which is is allowed to copy music/films/apps etc to and from , and where backups/restores etc can be made . Unless you know exactly what was synced - you could be inadvertently erasing some content hence the scary general error message . If you introduce your iPhone to a new iTunes library , then it can remove any content that is associated with the previous one . Assuming you still have access to the old one you can copy the files from one computer to another to enable you to sync them back again after , or you can transfer the purchases to the new iTunes library assuming it has been authorised using the same Apple ID . This is an attempt to limit unauthorised copying of music and other content etc , otherwise you could happily take your phone or iPod around to all your friends laptops and merrily copy all their stuff onto your device , where you could then happily sync it back to your iTunes library at home . Other phone content , like emails , contacts , settings should remain unaffected , as these are not held within the iTunes library ( even if you have set iTunes to be the sync mechanism for putting them on your phone , they belong outside of the library . Rule of thumb : if the original iTunes copied the content on in the first place , it will be removed . It wo n't just wipe the whole phone , just what came from iTunes .
It 's a usability bug . You have to open the App Store , log-in , and only then will the Resume option work . To resume , you can also click " Download " on the OS X Mavericks line in the Purchases table of the App Store . Since there 's no instant feedback as to whether anything is being downloaded unless your connection is very fast , you can use Activity Monitor to check whether network download seems to be saturated . An alternative is iStat Menus ( non-free with 14 day free trial ) . There , you can not only see that data is downloaded , but you can confirm that it is the process that does the downloading .
Here is the procedure I recommend , for those who are comfortable with the command-line and with Homebrew : Install Homebrew . Run the following on the command line ( in Terminal ) : Edit your shell startup files to ensure that comes first in your . If you use vim as or , add ` export VISUAL = ' mvim - f ' to your environment ( <URL> ) . Check that you installed everything correctly by running Now , you can run the graphical MacVim on a file by running from the command-line . Or , you can run the text-based editor by running . Also , if other programs ( e.g. , git ) fork off a separate editor , they 'll run the graphical MacVim . See also <URL> and <URL> .
There 's an access door on the bottom of the Mac which can be unscrewed . For further access , you need to take the glass off , which is fixed with fourteen magnets . Source : <URL>
Yipee ! I figured it out ! My problem is , as I forgot to mention in the question , I just got a new iPod . Aaaaaaand , I never realized it , but apparently when you get a new device , you have to download all your music into your library . Otherwise , you can still listen to it , but only over internet . Probably to save space . Downloading your songs can be done by tapping on the song or album , and then tapping " Make available offline " . Thank you everyone for your help !
The tolerances in the unibody macs are very , very tight and the area is located behind the battery , so Apple does not recommend users without training on servicing the delicate back sides of the battery clean it other than spraying air lightly from the outside . I 've found setting it up vertically and open helps with gravity bringing the grit towards the most open side of the trackpad . ( The part closest to you that swings free and presses on the physical spring . ) It 's not hard to find the tools or the steps - <URL> , but I prefer to take it in to the genius bar for cleaning as long as it 's a convenient trip . If you 're careful , you should be able to get inside the mac and see how much debris is inside and whether it 's worth a trip to the shop or to learn how to clean it better yourself . Getting the back off is all you need following the memory replacement instructions to have a peek .
Migration Assistant can use a Time Capsule as a Time Machine backup source , without the need for a direct connection . Once you 've installed OS X , use Migration Assistant to restore from a Time Machine backup , then select your Time Capsule .
UPDATE : With XCode 7 it is now possible to deploy an app on your own iOS9 + device for free . Only if you need to publish your app to the AppleStore will you need the paid membership . See qqbenq 's answer for more details . Without being a member , you can only run your app in the simulator . You must be a paid member to be able to install the app on a device . <URL> : Start developing for iOS and Mac OS X with the Xcode IDE , Dashcode , Instruments , Interface Builder , iOS Simulator and a suite of additional developer tools . <URL> : Test and debug your code on iPad , iPhone and iPod touch to finalize your applications .
Import/Export works differently in Xcode 5 + . <URL> shows you how to do it . Your account is shown under Xcode → Preferences → Accounts , and can be exported by clicking the gear icon ( ) in the lower-left .
MacFUSE is no longer being developed , and there 's many bugs with it in Mavericks . FUSE for OS X was the continuation of this development and still works well in Mavericks . I recommend that you uninstall MacFUSE and instead use FUSE for OS X. ntfs-3g in Mavericks requires this install procedure : <URL> You should know if you need FUSE -- if you do n't need it , there are official removal instructions : <URL>
I have it on good authority that all Lion installs are a standard install followed by a migration of data ( local , remote or Time Machine based ) so as long as you are following the official steps , having less to migrate will only be more buggy if you add that " bad data " once the install has finished . If the software installed poorly , the same software should have the same bugs boot after boot after boot . Can you reproduce any of these issues ? It sure sounds like a hardware ( RAM or HDD ) issue instead of some bug in the installer . The only way to know is to clean install Snow Leopard or dig into the specifics . I do n't think enough people have run the installer in the DVD manner you mentioned for any " word on the street reports " to be useful . Sorry I do n't have a better idea other than going through the usual issue isolation steps . <URL> <URL>
Chrome and Firefox have n't been developed for iOS yet , but you could try Dolphin Browser . It 's very similar to Chrome , and you can download extensions for it . Opera Mini and Murcury Web Browser ( quite similar to Desktop Safari ) are another couple of nice alternatives to Mobile Safari , and Atomic Web Browser is slightly better than Safari , but does n't have many features . If you want to watch Flash videos on your iPad , try out Skyfire . It 's limited , but it does what it says . If you want an interface which looks like Chrome , you might like <URL> . Here 's a <URL> which may help . You could search for " browser " on the app store , but realize that most of the applications that you find will still be using the same rendering engine that Apple developed . It 's only the stuff around the rendering engine that will look different . There are some rumors that Firefox will eventually release an iOS version . Personally though , I prefer Dolphin as my favorite . :3 <URL> Gestures : create a personal symbol to access the websites you use the most Visit your favorite sites with one touch . Tabbed browsing Bookmarks Bar Full Screen Mode
Mac OS X does n't have ( nor had in the past ) Serial Number or " Legit Purchase " mechanism . You can buy/borrow/lend / steal/copy a copy of Snow Leopard ( or any other edition ) and install it on any number of Machines . Technically this is possible , however , according to the EULA and all the legal stuff , you ca n't ; in any case , the operating system does n't have any copy-protection mechanism . EDIT : Bear in mind that a plain OS X Snow Leopard disk is not the same as a recovery disk . Although a recovery disk contains the OS , it is usually tied to a particular model , so if you try to recover a Macbook Pro with the iMac recovery disk , that might not work . ( This has happened to me in the past trying to recover the other way around , a friend 's iMac 's HDD failed and he replaced it but could n't find his recovery disk . We tried to use my Macbook Pro 's disk but it would n't work . The same with my Mac Pro . Going to an Apple Store will possibly help in that case . In the end I found my Snow Leopard 's original disk and we used that to install his iMac .
Assuming that the InstallESD.dmg is on the windows 7 computer : Copy the InstallESD.dmg file onto the USB drive ( just copy , not burning etc ) Boot into the MacBook 's Recovery Partition . Plug in the USB drive and open disk utility . Restore the USB drive using the InstallESD.dmg on the USB drive * Restart and boot from the USB Drive . * You might not be able to restore from an image that on the drive being restored . In which case use 2 USB drives ( one to copy the InstallESD.dmg from the PC and one to restore it to and boot from ) or : open terminal from the Utilities menu in the recovery partition ( on the homescreen ) . Use to find the location of your hard drive and USB drive Use to copy the InstallESD.dmg to you hard drive . ( e.g. , where you replace the paths with the ones found in step 2 ) Open Disk Utility and restore the USB drive using the InstallESD.dmg on your hard drive , if you ca n't find your hard drive in the Open dialog , press cmd + shift + g and you can enter the path manually . Or if your USB CD drive can burn DVDs and you have a DVD , you could use the USB drive to copy from windows and then use the Macbook 's Disk Utility to burn the image to the DVD . ( or use the DVD to copy from the PC and use the USB drive to boot )
Troubleshooting a slow mac is fairly easy , but sometimes tedious . You will want to and quit all apps . You might even go to the Users &amp; Groups preference and remove all applications that start when you log in to your Mac . Turn off WiFi and then shut down the Mac so you can start isolating it . Remove all peripherals except the keyboard , display and power cord . Power on and then log in and let it run for 5 minutes and then take a snapshot of the Activity Monitor . Look and see what CPU usage is and if the background tasks are taking any CPU time . If so , dig deeper - open terminal and run " sudo sysdiagnose " If not , go ahead and connect your peripherals one at a time . Check the CPU/Activity Monitor and watch both the Memory Pressure graph and the CPU . If you want , you can also look at energy , but that 's better for half hour snapshots for me . At this point , you should know the OS is fine and all of your peripherals and hard drives are not causing the slowness . Now go ahead and start the apps you choose to run when it 's slow . Again , you are still disconnected from any network - just checking the OS and the CPU . When that 's fine , you can conclude that the data coming in from the network was causing a load the OS was n't handling . If you can narrow things down , get a from a clean start and again when it is " slow " and post a second question with details of what your initial troubleshooting has shown .
No , you can install Lion directly if you want . This will save you a lot of time , as you would otherwise have to upgrade from Leopard to Snow Leopard first , only to upgrade to Lion afterwards . Buy a bootable OS X Lion USB stick You can buy a bootable OS X Lion USB Thumb Drive from the Apple Store : <URL> Create a bootable OS X Lion USB stick or DVD based on the Mac App Store download Buy and download Lion from the Mac App Store . The installer should show up in your folder . Right-click on the installer and hit " Show Package Contents " . Navigate to and look for a file called . Open up Disk Utility and drag the DMG file into the left-hand sidebar . If you 're burning it to a DVD , insert your DVD , select the disk image in the sidebar , and hit the " Burn " button . Skip down to the last step to use it . If you want to burn Lion to a USB flash drive , plug it in and click on it in the left-hand sidebar in Disk Utility . Go to the Partition tab and select " 1 Partition " from the dropdown menu . Choose " Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) " on the left . Hit the " Options " button under the partition table and choose " GUID Partition Table " . You 'll need this to make the drive bootable on a Mac . Hit the " Apply " button when you 're done to format your drive ( note : it will erase everything on the drive ) . Click on the " Restore " tab , choose the file as the source and your flash drive as the destination . Hit the " Apply " button and it will create your bootable USB drive . Reboot into OS X and hold the option key when you hear the startup chime . You can boot into your DVD or flash drive from there .
Microsoft has officially released Skype for Business for Mac on October 26th , 2016 . You can find the official download link here : <URL> If you are using Homebrew ( and Cask ) , you can install Skype for Business for Mac with the following commands :
end question
start question
How to disable accentuated char suggestion on long click on mac ?
Open a terminal ( e.g. Terminal.app ) and write then press Enter . Any open applications will still use the " Press and Hold " , but if you quit them and then open them again they should work as expected ( use key repeat instead of " Press and Hold " ) . Reference : <URL>
iOS 8 ( like iOS 7 ) on my iPad has a French keyboard called Accented AZERTY , where you type é by typing e and then the accent from the bottom row of keys . This is a lot faster than holding down the e key for most people .
iOS does not provide a shortcut for skipping directly to the bottom of documents , but there is a reasonable alternative , if you 're not already aware of it : scrolling views in iOS respond to swipe frequency , scrolling more quickly the more quickly and frequently you swipe the screen . While swiping a long document , email , or webpage , try several long , quick swipes in rapid succession : you should notice the scrolling speed accelerate accordingly . This is n't nearly as elegant as a tap shortcut , but does let you quickly skip to the bottom of a long view .
You can either install Windows as a virtual machine ( eg . VMWare Fusion or Parallels Desktop ) or on a Bootcamp partition . Note that this requires a Windows license and media for installing . In Windows you can then install IETester for example . There are some online services that will make screenshots for you in said browsers like Adobe Browserlab ( https://browserlab.adobe.com/ ) . Though that might not be ideal when wanting to quickly debug some problems . There are even services where you connect to a remote VNC instance running a selected Windows configuration like <URL> . But those generally do not come free to my knowledge . < = browsercam.com will be shut down FEB 1 , 2013 < = <URL>
Its old question , but still if it helps anyone . You need following 2 in order to maximise your window when clicked on title bar : Go to Apple icon > System Preferences > Dock > Select " Double-click a window 's title bar to " " Zoom " Shift + Double click on title bar to maximise the window . Cheers
OK , after twiddling different combinations , I found a solution that works ( at least on Mac OS X 9.5 Mavericks ) . 1 ) Open the app in question ( e.g. TextEdit ) . 2 ) Click . Note that there is also a . Clicking this general one does n't help ; click the app-specific one . 3 ) Open and set to . Note : While this keeps the minimized-items section of exposé clear of recent items , it also unfortunately disables access to recent items in most other places ( e.g. the menubar or dock ) . Boo Apple : <URL>
<URL> by Apple not only one of the most fully featured encoders around and fully supports multiple threads , it even supports distributed encoding so that more than one Mac can work on a single job .
Whilst it 's not ideal , if it 's that bad you could disable the app bounce notification completely for all apps : To revert , replace with . You can provide feedback to Apple regarding this at the following page : <URL>
Have you already taken a look at <URL> ( free ) ? It lets you assign custom actions to various gestures and touches , maybe this will let you realise what you want . Since I don ´ t have a Magic Trackpad near me , I can ´ t verify this though .
Do not delete the download or you will lose the rental . The only method for transferring rentals is between two devices is when you start by renting it from a computer . This is <URL> under the section worded <URL> . If you download a rented movie on your iPhone 4 or later , iPad , iPod touch ( 4th generation or later ) , or Apple TV : It is not transferable to any other device or computer . You can get help from Apple to accomplish this move if you are not certain if your software is the correct version or are having difficulties with your account . They might issue a one time refund , but this is n't intended to be something you can regularly do . If you have a TV and an Apple TV , your best alternative might be to AirPlay the movie , but on Lion , you will need third party software like <URL> to get video and music from your iOS device ( your phone in this case ) to play on the mac . Please research this option well ( especially the returns policy before buying ) , since it says it plays videos and it may not work with protected content like a movie rental .
I figured out that I needed to enter the following in the terminal : I did this already , and it seemed to fix the issue , but would love to know if this is the advisable way to solve the problem . ======================================================== Also , in case you want to enable the process afterwards , you can use this : sources : <URL> <URL>
I believe that <URL> is exactly what you are looking for . The only downside is that Rubbernet can not distinguish between LAN traffic and WAN traffic . It sounds like you are looking at one computer , so that should n't be an issue . There is a demo available on their website , or you can buy it from the <URL> for US$ 25 , which seems to be a pretty good deal since they want $ 29.99 ( about US$ 42 ) for a single user copy or $ 49.99 ( almost $ 69 ) for a " family pack " if you buy through their website . ( Hat tip to <URL> for bringing it to my attention a few months ago . ) If you want something cheaper , <URL> might suit you too .
In OSX 10.9 and above this is all in Activity Monitor app under the Energy tab . It shows your battery life over the last 12 hours , and while it was plugged in is highlighted in green . It also shows you what apps are sucking on your battery and how much they are draining at the moment , and on average .
Disable the LaunchAgent ( not LaunchDaemons ) and reboot your machine ( without sudo ) : In case you want to enable it again at one point :
I had a couple of e-mail accounts still set up in Mail which no longer existed on my mail server . I disabled these in System Preferences > Internet Accounts , and since then ( which is admittedly only three minutes ) , I have n't been able to reproduce the bug .
The only way I 'm aware of to do this is to use a jailbreak tweak called Springtomize . Apple will not allow you to do this natively since it affects the aesthetic quality of the device . That 's just Apple !
It is a bit hidden , but it is possible : Open System Preferences Click on Accessibility Scroll down a bit and click on Mouse &amp; Trackpad Click on Trackpad Options ... Enable dragging Select " three finger drag " <URL>
In short : no , you ca n't stop it . It 's Google re-directing you . You can work around it though . You can scroll down to the very bottom of the page and tap the " desktop " link , which will take you to the full desktop version of the site . If what you want is the YouTube app to open , then all you can do is copy the name of the video from safari into the YouTube app . I know what you mean about it not loading the videos . It 's annoying !
You can disable voicemail button ( not remove it ) if you jailbreak and install " voicemailblock " from Cydia it will disable it . Works with SBSetting so you can enable and disable the button when you want .
There has been <URL> . A lot of people are complaining about it , but as far as I know , there is n't a solid solution at the moment . It seems the app-maker can decide wheter or not to include the ' Versions ' option . So the only guess I can make is to return to a previous version of the app . In case of TextEdit , it would mean you have to go back to Snow Leopard , which is clearly not a good option . You can always try to <URL> about your findings , maybe if a lot of people do so ( and it looks like it ) , Apple will consider a new way of handling the versions .
end question
start question
Where does OS X store my Adobe product keys ?
There 's no generic OS X place for storing product keys . It is up to each individual software supplier to decide where they want to store the products . Usually it is done in ordinary files stored in the file system . For Microsoft they reside in under a name such as com.microsoft.office.licensing.plist . Similarly for Adobe I think they are in As a user you do n't really need to know where it is stored as the programs handle product key management themselves .
First off , make sure you 've run AAM to update all components to latest : What happens when you set your displays to mirror ( command-F1 ) , launch Bridge , then revert back to extended ?
When Steve Jobs first introduced the iMac in 1998 , he proclaimed that the i stood for Internet . Jobs went on to say , " i also means some other things to us " and displayed a presentation slide with the keywords : internet individual instruct inform inspire You can even view <URL> . The " i " was first used on the iBook and iMac . These were produced as Steve Jobs wanted a pro and consumer model of a desktop and portable computer . This later rolled out with more products , iSight , iPod , iPhone , iPad . Yes the products are trademarked , but using an " i " itself before a product is not trademarked and it can not be . Here is <URL>
I did it . ( Apple Developer ) . I have a second computer that I use for all beta testing , running OS X 10.6 . I used the app store on that computer to download the Lion Beta Installer . It downloads and installs just like any other app . You then run the Lion Beta Installer app and it reboots and installs Lion as if it came off a CD . After another reboot , you are running Lion , with all your apps and settings working just fine . Hope this does not defy the NDA .
No , iMovie is part of the iLife suite of programs , not the OS itself . It 's only included bundled with the OS when you buy a new Mac .
If by reinstall the OS , you simply mean reinstall it and not run first-time setup , the resulting installation will not be associated with you in any way . If you intend to run first-time setup , obviously do not login with your Apple ID during that process , and of course do n't input any personally-identifiable information either . There is metadata in a receipt file in the installer file itself that is associated with your Apple ID . That is not transferred to the resulting installation , though .
When you set up your export settings and clicked ' Next ... ' , a standard save sheet appears prompting you for a location to save the file . Wherever you selected as a save location will be wherever the file is . Once exporting is complete , the notification has a Show button which reveals the location in Finder . If you forgot the location and missed the notification , you can still reveal the location . Select the project in the Library viewer under the event where it is located . Show the Share Inspector using the button on the inspector toolbar . Click the reveal arrow next to the shared media , then select Reveal in Finder .
It does run , but Snow Leopard does not install Rosetta by default . Rosetta is needed to run PowerPC applications on Intel Macs . You can install Rosetta from the Snow Leopard disk . I believe you will be prompted to do this when you try to run Photoshop .
Since Apple Configurator 2.0 they are downloaded in : and stored in :
Unless you 've already found it , how about something like <URL> ? It seems to have been published in 2009 and references Leopard in the description , so may also be a little out of date , but from the <URL> seems to have a reasonable amount of information about security and OS X internals . May be a bit left field for what you want though ... ? Or for something newer ( due to be publishe June 2012 ) how about <URL> ?
Applications such as CleanMyMac or CCleaner are unnecessary for your Mac . They can clear certain caches or preferences that can interfere with the proper functionality of your other applications - they 'll be recreated anyway the next time you use the software . Unless you 're in dire need of extra space on your hard drive , I would n't suggest trying to erase caches using cleaner applications . If anything , invest in an external hard drive and move some of your larger files over .
Out of the box there is no themeing capability in Mac OS X , you can however modify some of the colours used by Mac OS X in the Appearance Preference Pane in System Preferences . If you 're serious about themeing however there are 3rd party applications you can get to help with this : <URL> - manages and changes icons . <URL> - does most everything else . If you 're interested in available themes that work with ThemePark check out <URL> Otherwise a fairly good resource is the forum at <URL> .
Regrettably I do n't believe this is possible . As you 've probably noticed , there are no user-accessible options for this in System Preferences ' Keyboard Shortcuts . As far as I can determine , there are n't any scriptable interfaces either ( plists , Applescript ) . Options for building your own program seem to be pretty limited as well , according to <URL> I found . The most you seem to be able to do programmatically is <URL> . The only way to possibly do this without some serious OS X hacking is to use something like <URL> to do some GUI scripting to do the dragging for you . However GUI scripting is always a bit messy , and you 'd need to account for the changing positions of the desktops , depending on how many are open , etc. . I suspect that 's not exactly what you were looking for , but it 's probably the closest you 'll get , unless someone finds something I did n't . Sorry .
I solved it . I moved the / Library/Application Support/Adobe/Slcache and Slstore into a backups folder . Then I ran the installer again . Running the uninstaller did not remove these files before - that 's why we kept getting the error .
You can find this out by yourself : Start Transmit Execute in Terminal Initiate transfer from S3 to FTP This will list all created/opened files , it should n't be difficult to identify the temporary files .
On Windows XP On Windows Vista/Windows 7 On Mac I believe that the updates do not delete after they are installed . Via <URL> .
Ah . I finally found it . The file is and it 's under the key .
On a high level , it 's like an automatic transmission - when you press the gas gently , the throttle increases but when you stomp on the accelerator pedal the engine downshifts the transmission to increase the mechanical advantage . You can influence switching to the powerful GPU by hitting the API with significant work and expect the " transmission " to dispatch that load to the non-integrated GPU . The documentation on the API are all in Xcode ( and online too , but I prefer using search on Xcode to hunt for a document ) . I would start with : xcdoc : / / ? url = developer.apple.com/library/etc/redirect/xcode/mac/1153/technotes/tn2335/_index.html ( <URL> ) Those links cover the Mac Pro and the " What you should know when using OpenCL " section contains a helpful note that WWDC 2013 Session 508 : Working with OpenCL describes how to switch between two GPUs in a Mac portable using power considerations .
OK . I found out myself ... Luckily Apple did not remove the Finder Merge functionality with Mavericks . But sometimes it is not offered to the user . But let me explain : Supose you have a folder named TARGET with a subfolder TARGET/SomeStuff . And you have a SomeStuff folder somewhere else . Now drag this second SomeStuff folder to the TARGET folder ( without any modifier keys pressed ) then the Finder will presented you the following dialog ( Stop and Replace ) : So , no merge here . Now - if you instead press the Alt key while you drop the SomeStuff folder to the TARGET folder there are two possibilities : 1 . ) If the files in the two SomeStuff Folder have completely different ( not overlapping ) contents . In other words : no duplicate filenames . Then finder will give you these options ( Stop , Merge &amp; Replace All ) : So , here you can merge . And the result will be a TARGET/SomeStuff folder with the content of both SomeStuff folders . 2 . ) But here comes what is sometimes confusing ( and actually made me think merging is gone in Mavericks ) : if there exists at least one filename that is contained in both SomeStuff folders , then merging is not possible . Then the finder will offer you these options ( Do n't Replace , Stop , Replace ) : So , no merge possible , here too !
I am downloading it now from the App Store and it seems to be working fine . I did not go through the App Store , but used the following link : <URL> After going to the link there is a section on how to get El Capitan from the App Store if you do not meet the system requirements for MacOS Sierra . Click on that link ( pasted below ) and it will open the App Store to the El Capitan App download section . Simply click on ' Get ' and it will start downloading . <URL>
end question
start question
How do I Get Info for multiple items in one window ?
There are two modifier keys that allow you to view grouped info for multiple files ( note that the names are derived from what the Finder 's menu item changes into when the relevant modifier key is pressed ) : ⌥ + ⌘ + I ( alt/option + cmd + I ) : This opens the Inspector , an independent window that tracks info for whatever the selected files in the focused Finder window are . The Inspector updates as you change selection ( or change which Finder window is focused ) , and remains until it is closed . ^ + ⌘ + I ( control + cmd + I ) : This opens a Summary Info window , which aggregates info on multiple selected items . Unlike the Inspector , however , it is static and always displays info on whatever items were selected when it was opened , regardless of changes to which items are selected in the Finder , or which Finder window has focus .
Insert > File . You have to do it one at a time , but it appears to work .
With the escape sequence . Example of use in Bash : Which you could add to your if you use Bash , or otherwise attach to you so it gets re-evaluated often . Example :
It can be enabled via System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > [ Unlock ] > Login Options > Show fast user switching menu as ...
Apple 's solution , like it or not , is to use Exposé or <URL> ( Lion ) to switch between windows . ⌘ + tab is considered an application switcher . There are third party solutions to change this behavior , but I do n't have experience with them . There is some discussion about these solutions on <URL> .
You will have to edit the files with a text ( or xml ) editor . First make a backup of the app ( especially for Finder ) , then go into the bundle contents and find the or . This will probably be in the folder . Most likely , this file will be called . However , Finder 's is and some apps , like Firefox , wo n't have one at all . The nib file can be converted to XML with . Then you can open it in the text editor of your choice . Just command ⌘ + F ( or control ⌃ + S ) for the menu name you want to change . It should look something like this : Edit the string at the top . This is actually the Interface Builder connection between the menu item of that name and the Objective-C selector/method that it calls . Save the nib and relaunch the application ( with Force Quit or for Finder ) and you should have the different name showing up .
Sorry , I only know command-line tools to do the job . You can use for that ( like in ) . <URL> and , of course , . Setting Multiple " Power On " &amp; Power Off " Events Currently , it appears that pmset will NOT allow you to set more than one pair of " power on " &amp; " power off " events when using a repeating schedule . For example ... The above command would set a repeating schedule that would shutdown the Mac nightly at 2 AM in the morning and startup daily at 6:45 AM . But , if you want to set multiple " power on " &amp; " power off " events , you could specify a specific date/time and with a little scripting you could setup a schedule for a month .
Command-Return Hold the Command key and tap the Return key This will bring you to a Finder window , where the file/app is selected within the enclosing folder .
The following AppleScript should work , which you can save as an application and put in your Finder toolbar .
Indeed , the screenshot does appear to have been edited . The correct way to select multiple photos is to press the Select button , then tap the pictures . As far as I know , it is impossible to select images without pressing the Select button , and pressing the button changes it to a Cancel button , and the navigation bar title changes to Select Items ( or the number of items selected ) , as well as removing the back navigation button . On the left : Apple 's screenshot ; On the right : how it should appear when selecting multiple pictures .
You do n't have control to allow only a subset of the photo stream to come to a particular device . Photostream takes photos from all devices that feed it , and as it 's a store that Apple keeps online , if a particular device subscribes to the stream , it gets a cached copy of all messages . You can take that device out of the stream temporarily or free up other space on the device to allow the stream contents to be cached locally . In your specific case , you could exit that stream subscription to clear the space and then have the person that owns the stream re-send it to you once you 've gotten space freed up on some or all devices that need to subscribe to your collective stream .
Microsoft has a Student store that sells <URL> , downloadable , with key for $ 69 . Presumably from your post , you would qualify for academic pricing .
There are two modifier keys that allow you to view grouped info for multiple files ( note that the names are derived from what the Finder 's menu item changes into when the relevant modifier key is pressed ) : ⌥ + ⌘ + I ( alt/option + cmd + I ) : This opens the Inspector , an independent window that tracks info for whatever the selected files in the focused Finder window are . The Inspector updates as you change selection ( or change which Finder window is focused ) , and remains until it is closed . ^ + ⌘ + I ( control + cmd + I ) : This opens a Summary Info window , which aggregates info on multiple selected items . Unlike the Inspector , however , it is static and always displays info on whatever items were selected when it was opened , regardless of changes to which items are selected in the Finder , or which Finder window has focus .
Something like <URL> or <URL> can be used to selectively control which apps restore their windows and should be able to do what you want . Alternatively , using ⌥ + ⌘ + W in Preview ( and most other apps ) will close all currently open windows .
The short answer : notch and peak filters . You can use the master buss EQ to notch out or boost frequency ranges that correspond , primarily , to the instrument or voice you 're trying to remove or isolate . Notches are for removing and peaks are for boosting . It 's less than perfect in GarageBand because the built-in EQ facilities are somewhat simplistic , but you can make a reasonable go of it if you 're patient . Let 's talk about removing something . Boosting something is the same approach , you just turn the gain up on the notch instead of down . First , you 'll need to identify approximately what range of frequencies you want to cut . I 'll usually consult something like the <URL> . It shows you , for any instrument , what the dominant frequency range it covers . You 're mostly concerned about notching out the fundamentals of the instrument since they tend to the be the strongest component of the instrument 's sound . At the bottom of the chart is the frequency plotted in 1/3 octave bands . If we wanted to , for example , remove an oboe from our track , we 're looking at removing the fundamentals from approximately 200 Hz up to 1.5 kHz . <URL> That 's a pretty broad range . If we removed that much content we 'd be taking lots of other instruments with it . But we can use this as a starting point for our filter . Head in to GarageBand and call up the master EQ strip by pressing the Smart Controls button in the upper right had corner : <URL> Select EQ and Master from the toolbar over the smart controls : <URL> Now add a notch filter ( there are four available on the EQ strip , I just picked the one to the left because we 're doing lower frequency content removal ) . Center the notch at 650 Hz ( ) , which is the midpoint of the oboe 's range . You can either drag the dot left and right until it says 650 Hz in the lower righthand corner , or you can click on the value and just enter it directly : <URL> And then set the gain as low as it 'll go by dragging the dot downwards or entering -24 dB for the gain the lower righthand corner directly : <URL> The the width of the notch , called the Q , is at its maximum value -- the filer is removing the most content at 650 Hz , but it 's also removing a lot of content above above and below 650 Hz . We want to narrow it so it 's covering really just the 200 Hz - 1500 Hz range . It wo n't be perfect because it 's only a second order filter , but it should be good enough . You can click on the Q value in the lower righthand corner of the EQ strip to enter a value . 2 is about right : <URL> With this starting point for your notch filter , solo your track and play it . Now , as the track plays , adjust the mid-point of the notch up and down until the oboe is at its quietest . If there 's a portion of the track where the oboe is the lone instrument , loop that and do your manual adjustments there , otherwise feel it out . Once it 's as quiet as you think you can make it , play with the Q until it 's more or less still that quiet , but the Q is as high as possible . This gives you the narrowest possible notch -- the least amount of information you can remove to cut the instrument out of the overall sound . Repeat , adding additional notch filters , until you 've removed everything you want removed . And , as I said earlier , to boost instead of remove , just reverse the gain . The process is , otherwise , the exact same : <URL> And you can combine cuts and boosts to truly isolate just a small part of the frequency spectrum in a signal to study it . Though , you may find that without harmonic content , the instrument is a little hard to decipher . It depends on how strong or weak the fundamental of the instrument is in relation to the harmonic overtones it produces . Some good old trial and error , using your ears as your guide , is the best teacher here .
It 's not a stock feature of the OS , but you might have some luck with third-party add-on <URL> , which mimics Windows Aero Snap features .
This annoyed me too , and it does n't seem the solution is entirely satisfying -- we 'll just have to hope that Twitter for Mac gets updated soon to be better compatible with Lion . If you have " Swipe between pages " set to " Swipe left or right with three fingers " or " Swipe with two or three fingers " , then left/right three-finger swipe gestures will work in Twitter . If you have Mission Control &amp; App Exposé set to " Swipe up/down with three fingers " , then you can hold ⌥ Option to use up/down three-finger swipe gestures with Twitter . ( I 'm not sure why , but if you have these set to 4-finger swipes , it does n't seem 3-finger swipes work at all in Twitter . )
Well , there is always the option to copy the contents of to some other place on a regular basis .
The word ' today ' does n't register with Siri and reminders . Reading through the documentation on <URL> I found this : If you enter " breakfast " or " morning , " Reminders sets a 9 a.m. notification . If you enter " lunch " or " noon , " Reminders sets a 12 p.m. notification . If you enter " dinner " or " night , " Reminders sets an 8 p.m. notification . If you enter a day , but do n't enter a time , Reminders sets a 12 p.m. notification . If you enter a time , but do n't enter a day , Reminders sets a notification for today . It does n't mention Siri , yet after some testing the rules seem close to the same for Siri input , although the times do n't match . Solutions : Give Siri a time without a date . " Remind me to go to the dry cleaners at 5pm " Give Siri a duration " Remind me to go to the dry cleaners in 2 hours " Use " evening " and Siri will set the reminder for 6pm " Remind me to go to the dry cleaners this evening " Use " tonight " . Siri will set the reminder for 7pm " Remind me to go to the dry cleaners tonight " Use " noon " and Siri will set the reminder for 12pm " Remind me to go to the dry cleaners at noon " Use " morning " and Siri will set the reminder for 7am " Remind me to go to the dry cleaners in the morning " Last note , if you are past the time that the word represents Siri gets confused . Asking " this evening " after 6pm will cause Siri to ask you when you 'd like to be reminded .
I ended up using <URL> to do this . Overall I found it to be the most configurable . Here is a screenshot of my configuration , whereas Cmd + Ctrl + W moves a window to the next monitor . If you have a 3 monitor setup ( 2 external monitors and the Mac monitor ) , you can set up the " Move Window to Next Monitor " to the right by doing the following : set up a new shortcut , specify " Move Window to Next Monitor " as the Predefined Action click Attach Additional Action and again specify " Move Window to Next Monitor " as the action Voila , you can now move a window to the monitor on the right ( a little hacky I know , but it works until the developer of BTT updates the app ) The only shortcoming of BetterTouchTool is poor Lion support ( not all features are available ) but it is available as an alpha release . This specific keyboard shortcut should work fine in Lion with the stable version , I reckon .
end question
start question
Is it safe to erase ~ Library/Developer ?
If the only two directories you have in ~ Library/Developer are Xcode and Docsets ( or Shared/Docsets ) then you should be safe to delete that folder . If you did re-install XCode you would get them ( or updated versions ) back .
Lion does not offer any customizations during the installation process . Thus a reinstallation is about as smooth and as linear as possible . You restart your Mac holding the OPTION key when you hear the tone . You will then be greeted with various partitions you can use instead of the main Lion partition . Should you wish to simply reinstall Lion , you would select the Recovery HD partition . Once loaded , you just need to follow the prompts and install it over your current Lion installation . The new installation will replace all the core system files , but leave your user profile and data complete untouched . Your music , documents , even passwords and bookmarks , and applications will not touched ; none of your personal information will be deleted ( nor will it backup your old system , as was common in older OS X versions ) . It is a seamless process that simply rolls Lion back to the default installation build . There will be nothing lost and no disk spaced wasted on old system files . <URL> . Note : It was the case that older builds of OS X allowed various types of reinstallations ( like Archive and Install or a complete erase ) , but these have been omitted in Lion , greatly simplifying the process .
The iPod nano and classic iPods get loaded a custom firmware that could be downloaded from the internet and possibly loaded with a tool other than iTunes , but on a PC you could easily use whatever disk tool you want to erase the drive by reformatting it . Since this would render the device unbootable , you will not want to sell it to a user that 's not familiar with why it 's not working , so the elegant solution would be to rent another computer with iTunes and restore it . Apple 's retail stores usually will even loan you a cable to restore your device from any of the display Macs . iTunes on a new computer would want to erase all the content anyhow - so going another step to wipe and restore the device will leave a clean slate and you might even be able to sync some demo content to the device depending on how iTunes is set up in the store you visit .
To erase everything and restore the iPhone to the factory state , go into Settings , then General , then Reset . Press " Erase All Content and Settings " . If you have a passcode , you will be prompted to enter it . Select " Erase iPhone " and the wipe will begin . Be sure to have your iPhone connected to a power source as the erase takes a long time . When it 's complete , the iPhone will have no SMS , calendar , phone logs , contacts , etc. .
Generally , it does not affect , but there are some apps that do n't properly work when you do it . The only way to know is trying it . In the worst case , you can revert the changes without issues . About accessing keychain , same thing , usually you wo n't have problems . I have n't tested auto-update . I usually did it with old versions of apps , to have both old and new ones .
As far as I can tell from <URL> you do n't get paid for a month after you hit the threshold for payment of $ 150 . Hope this helps !
Its perfectly safe . You might run into problems with the trackpad driver ( i did ) but a quick search here was all i needed to fix it .
Resume , counterintuitively , does not actually save anything itself . It simply relaunches all the applications that were running when you shut your computer down . It 's the job of those Lion-compatible applications to restore their windows . Safe sleep , on the other hand , saves a snapshot of your RAM to your HDD when you put your computer to sleep . In case of power failure , the machine boots from this file on startup . Safe sleep is the only time ( that I know of ) that OS X saves its RAM . You can use the command line utility ( specifically the command where is the sleep mode ) to change the sleep mode , although there is no significant benefit in doing this . The three main different kinds of sleep are as follows ( from the page ) : hibernatemode = 0 ( binary 0000 ) by default on supported desktops . The system will not back memory up to persistent storage . The system must wake from the contents of memory ; the system will lose context on power loss . This is , historically , plain old sleep . hibernatemode = 3 ( binary 0011 ) by default on supported portables . The system will store a copy of memory to persistent storage ( the disk ) , and will power memory during sleep . The system will wake from memory , unless a power loss forces it to restore from disk image . hibernatemode = 25 ( binary 0001 1001 ) is only settable via pmset . The system will store a copy of memory to persistent storage ( the disk ) , and will remove power to memory . The system will restore from disk image . If you want " hibernation " - slower sleeps , slower wakes , and better battery life , you should use this setting . As I stated before , configuring the sleep mode is not recommended ( again from the page ) : We do not recommend modifying hibernation settings . Any changes you make are not supported . If you choose to do so anyway , we recommend using one of these three settings . For your sake and mine , please do n't use anything other 0 , 3 , or 25 . I do n't know about the script vs. user issue , although I highly doubt there is a difference .
Whether it is safe or not depends on whether you trust the app and the developer 's privacy policy or not . When you give access to an app to photos ( either through the prompt that comes when the app tries to access photos or through Settings > Privacy > Photos ) , the app gets access to write new photos/images to your Camera Roll and to read all your photos on the device in an unencrypted form . The date and time when each photo was taken is embedded within the photo . Plus , if you have enabled Location Services for the Camera app , then an app that has access to the Camera Roll can also find out where you took the photos . How the app then treats the photos and the associated metadata ( like date/time and location ) , if it uploads or sends them elsewhere , is left to the app . For example , once you give permission , iOS apps for popular services like Dropbox , Facebook , Flickr and Google + can upload all your photos to their services . With iOS 7 , these apps can also be allowed to do it in the background ( when you 're not actively running the app ) . Most users would n't even actively know which photos are being uploaded and when . From the <URL> page of the developer documentation : Similarly , your app can load , display , and edit photos from the Photo Library , as well as use the built-in camera to take new photos . So far , Apple has not implemented any granular settings in iOS within Privacy > Photos to restrict read access to specific photos in the photo library .
No , you need to wipe the entire device using the settings found under Settings > General > Reset > Erase All Contents and Settings . Simply deleting items from iOS applications does not provide any kind of secure deletion , and those files can easily be recovered ( although that will be harder and harder as those blocks get overwritten in time ) . This provides a one-pass secure delete call that can be liked to OS X 's " Secure Empty Trash . " While most 3rd party software wo n't be able to recover your data , government units have far more sophisticated tools that can retrieve data from far worse cases ( even physically damaged storage ) . This feature was introduced in iOS 2.0 and you can <URL> .
The first part of the sync error message means exactly what it says - your iPhone can only be associated with a single iTunes library . The second half is tricky for people that are analytical , but for most users it 's meant to make them want to back up their phone before they erase it . Regardless of how you choose to copy your content ( sync manually or automatic ) it maintains a connection to a single library to which is is allowed to copy music/films/apps etc to and from , and where backups/restores etc can be made . Unless you know exactly what was synced - you could be inadvertently erasing some content hence the scary general error message . If you introduce your iPhone to a new iTunes library , then it can remove any content that is associated with the previous one . Assuming you still have access to the old one you can copy the files from one computer to another to enable you to sync them back again after , or you can transfer the purchases to the new iTunes library assuming it has been authorised using the same Apple ID . This is an attempt to limit unauthorised copying of music and other content etc , otherwise you could happily take your phone or iPod around to all your friends laptops and merrily copy all their stuff onto your device , where you could then happily sync it back to your iTunes library at home . Other phone content , like emails , contacts , settings should remain unaffected , as these are not held within the iTunes library ( even if you have set iTunes to be the sync mechanism for putting them on your phone , they belong outside of the library . Rule of thumb : if the original iTunes copied the content on in the first place , it will be removed . It wo n't just wipe the whole phone , just what came from iTunes .
Yes A single device can be added to as many developer accounts as necessary .
Fire . Unfortunately that would seem to be at odds with Amazon 's return policy . If Disk Utility ca n't see the drive , it 's unlikely you 'll be able to access it to overwrite anything ( and overwriting on SSDs can be tricky in any event ) . Additionally , because the drive in the rMBP is a proprietary form factor , it 's difficult to take it out and try to access it from another computer ( which might not help any way ) . There may be adapters made in the future , but I 'm not aware of any for sale at the moment . The best preventative measure for this would be to employ some form of whole drive encryption , like Apple 's <URL> . That way even if someone is able to read the data off the drive , it wo n't be useable unless they have your encryption password .
Homebrew on its own acts like a command-line App Store . It 's safe , if you know what you 're downloading . If you are concerned about downloading hijacked binaries , verify the SHA/SHA1 sum of the binary you 've downloaded against the SHA/SHA1 sum published by the developer , usually on their webpage . Personally , I 've never had any bad experiences with Homebrew . I 've explored many projects and never had any bad experiences .
Everything in your iPhoto Library is stored in ( note that the extension is hidden by default ) . Simply copy that file to whatever Mac you 'd like to move it to . Just make sure you are running the same version of iPhoto in both cases to minimize incompatibility and error . Apple has an <URL> if you are interested .
I found an app in the appstore called undock that does all the unmounting and advice when it 's safe to unplug . <URL>
The short answer is you are safe as long as the ambient temperature and charge hardware do n't overheat . The empirical evidence is you can measure the temperature of the wall adapter and the charging puck to approximate the amount of current that 's flowing through the inductive charger at any point in time . I like to use a <URL> for things like this , but you can use your fingers to know that the charger is within specifications by comparing the temperature change when you take a charging watch off the charger and then let the charger sit against your chosen piece of metal . Apple 's official safety information are at : <URL> or <URL> <URL>
It 's pretty secure , since any new device attempting to read your iCloud Keychain requires one of the following : One of your existing devices verifies the connection through a push notification with manual acceptance . When you enable iCloud Keychain on an additional device , your other devices that use iCloud Keychain receive a notification requesting approval for the additional device . After you approve the additional device , your iCloud Keychain automatically begins updating on that device . Your iCloud Security Code When you set up iCloud Keychain , you 're asked to create an iCloud Security Code . It can be a 4-digit code similar to the passcode lock for your device , or you can have a more complex code automatically generated for you . The iCloud Security Code is used to authorize additional devices to use your iCloud Keychain . It 's also used to verify your identify so that you can perform other iCloud Keychain actions , such as recovering your iCloud Keychain if you lose all your devices . <URL> SMS verification to your phone . The device that is using the SMS-capable phone number you provided when you first set up iCloud Keychain . A verification code is sent via SMS to this phone number . If you do n't have access to this number , <URL> , who can verify your identity so that you can complete setup on your new device . Furthermore , you can also <URL> so that in many cases - the first use of your iCloud password on a new device triggers a push notification warning in addition to the automatic email that Apple sends when your password is used on a new device . In summary : You get email notification when your password is used on a new device for iCloud - no opt-in steps needed . Keychain syncing has enhanced protection / two factor authentication baked in , again no opt-in is needed . You can opt-in to AppleID two factor authentication to further protect against password loss/skimming .
I guess you may either restore from your Time Machine backup , or copy it back from another Mac running the same 10.7.2
Unfortunately you ca n't easily do Mac-to-Mac syncing of iTunes libraries in that manner . Your best options for networked iTunes access are : iTunes Library Sharing : put your library on the server , and you can get streaming access from your MBP . Downsides : no remote/offline access , you need to be on the same network as the server ; all media/playlist management has to be done on the server . iTunes Home Sharing : same streaming access as above , but you can also copy files from the server to your MBP . Downsides : it 's not syncing , you need to manually select and transfer the songs you want . Store iTunes Library on a Network Share : change the iTunes folder location ( Advanced section in the iTunes Preferences ) to a shared network drive on the server ( or any shared drive , does n't have to be a Mac ) . This gets you local control of the library , just like any standard functions . Downsides : have to be on the local network to get access . With this option you could make a second library ( option-click iTunes when you open it ) on the local drive with a smaller collection of songs you want for off-network access , but again , you do n't have any syncing abilities , you have to manually add what you want . I do n't know that much about iPhoto sharing , I think it 's more limited , but you can always put the iPhoto Library on a network share , as in the third option above , with the same limitations . There 's also iCloud 's Photo Stream , which is fairly limited , but may work if you just want to get recent photos from point A to B.
end question
start question
Is there a keyboard shortcut to move a window from one monitor to another ?
I ended up using <URL> to do this . Overall I found it to be the most configurable . Here is a screenshot of my configuration , whereas Cmd + Ctrl + W moves a window to the next monitor . If you have a 3 monitor setup ( 2 external monitors and the Mac monitor ) , you can set up the " Move Window to Next Monitor " to the right by doing the following : set up a new shortcut , specify " Move Window to Next Monitor " as the Predefined Action click Attach Additional Action and again specify " Move Window to Next Monitor " as the action Voila , you can now move a window to the monitor on the right ( a little hacky I know , but it works until the developer of BTT updates the app ) The only shortcoming of BetterTouchTool is poor Lion support ( not all features are available ) but it is available as an alpha release . This specific keyboard shortcut should work fine in Lion with the stable version , I reckon .
You can <URL> that opens the specific preference pane . You can find the preference pane bundles in the set of folders : / System/Library/PreferencePanes / Library/PreferencePanes ~ / Library/PreferencePanes Preference panes are special bundles that when opened from the Finder , will launch System Preferences.app and automatically switch to their settings . Create an Automator Service Drag the desired preference pane onto the Automator workflow Add the Open Finder Items action ... ... and select System Preferences.app in the action Add a Watch Me Do action to record any clicks and interactions with the panel To assign this workflow as a keyboard shortcut , see this Tuts + tutorial , <URL> .
Unfortunately the installer package contains the source files for the installation and this package is deleted once installation has completed . If you still have the installer in Applications , right-click on it and Show Package Contents then browse to the / Contents/SharedSupport / folder and look for the InstallESD.dmg disk image . This image can be burnt to a dvd saving future downloads but I am afraid you are going to have to download it again .
There 's no default , but you could probably use AppleScript to accomplish this . Hmm ... EDIT : Make an AppleScript to run this shell script :
You could use an application like Alfred or Automator services to assign shortcuts for opening folders : If you want to open the folders over the current Finder window , you could use <URL> to assign shortcuts to scripts like this : <URL> allows adding custom shortcuts that work in both file dialogs and Finder .
In System Preferences , go to Keyboard " Keyboard Shortcuts " Services Find the service on the list . To the right of the service name , double-click . Enter the desired shortcut .
Answering straight yes . You loose quality when connecting monitor with VGA . You see VGA is analog standard and digital signal being first time converted into analog in a computer to be transmitted through VGA cable and then converted back into digital to be used by the digital TFT panel . Since there are few steps of converting signal and analog interference while in a cable you have few chances to loose on quality . Then it depends on particular setup , cables and quality of convertor when answering how much of quality being lost . So if you do n't see that quality is degraded on you VGA connected MacMini compared to MacBook on DVI that it is safe it definitely more convenient to leave them as they are .
I ended up using <URL> to do this . Overall I found it to be the most configurable . Here is a screenshot of my configuration , whereas Cmd + Ctrl + W moves a window to the next monitor . If you have a 3 monitor setup ( 2 external monitors and the Mac monitor ) , you can set up the " Move Window to Next Monitor " to the right by doing the following : set up a new shortcut , specify " Move Window to Next Monitor " as the Predefined Action click Attach Additional Action and again specify " Move Window to Next Monitor " as the action Voila , you can now move a window to the monitor on the right ( a little hacky I know , but it works until the developer of BTT updates the app ) The only shortcoming of BetterTouchTool is poor Lion support ( not all features are available ) but it is available as an alpha release . This specific keyboard shortcut should work fine in Lion with the stable version , I reckon .
You could do it with a script ... or you could hit CMD+T ab and while holding CMD hit " q " over and over . It will cycle through your apps and quit them one by one pretty quickly .
ESC and then B moves back one word ESC and then F moves forward one word You can change the terminal settings to more sane shortcuts like ALT + B and such : here 's a link on how to do that <URL>
You can not . It 's not possible to share content from one Apple ID to another . Apple actually recommends everyone have their own Apple ID . You can load the content on your daughter 's device and she can access them all normally . You can then log her into her own Apple ID , where she can begin to make her purchases on her own account . The only downside is she will have to know your Apple ID 's password as iOS will ask for it on rare occasions ( when restoring the device for example ) . It 's possible to store content from multiple Apple accounts on a single device , the user will just need to enter the password should the OS ever require it . That is the only feasible solution in your case ( other than starting over ) . This will at least circumvent having to re-purchase any content . This has always been a sore spot for Apple customers as they have historically been very firm in never being able to even close an Apple ID , let alone share content between them . You can read more about Apple IDs here : <URL>
Enable " Remote Login " in the preferences of the target/remote mac . Then use with user being the short name of the remote user . You will be asked for the password of the user on remotehost . If you want to avoid using passwords , you can set up ssh key pairs . See <URL> for details .
I personally use it everyday for my programming job . The thing I like the most about it is that the keys are low profile , so it 's easy to glide your fingers across . That said , I have used a mac keyboard for the last 5 years , so I got used to it . You can only try to see if it fits you .
Custom syntax color themes are located in ( Note that this directory may not exist if you 've not yet modified any of your themes or have n't created a custom theme of your own , but will be created as soon as you do . ) The files have a extension . Simply retrieve the file from that directory and copy it into the same directory on another machine . I quite like Ethan Schoonover 's <URL> ; I find them to be very readable and easy on the eyes , and can be installed as explained above .
Go to to add a shortcut , select or add Numbers as the Application , and put " Fill Down " ( exact , no quotes ) in the command spot and then assign your shortcut ( Ctrl + D )
I did not test this myself , as I do not have a Bluetooth keyboard , but I 've seen a few article stating that to send an email you could type CMD - Shift - D.
Try this AppleScript : For some reason , the tilde does n't work in the path , so you have to enter your home folder . Since you want to assign that to a shortcut , download <URL> which enables you to assign shortcuts to AppleScripts . Hope this helps ! UPDATE : You can alternatively make an Automator service to run the Applescript . Open Automator and select Service On the left-side menu , select Utilities . In Utilities , drag and drop the " Run Applescript " action into your workflow Copy the applescript above into the " Run Applescript " action Save
You did n't mention what keyboard , but on the Apple keyboard : F7 - restart current song F8 - pause/play F9 - skip forward Note that you need to have the box unchecked in OSX that says use function keys as normal . In the event you use your function keys for something , I 've also successfully created trigger hotkey combos in Quicksilver . You can also probably just remap them in keyboard preferences .
optionenter ( shiftenter on Windows ) will add the selected song to the Up Next list ( in iTunes 11.0 , this does not work in album view , but does in all other views ) . However , iTunes will always ask you if you want to clear the previous songs from the list , so an extra keystroke is needed . There are one or two drawbacks to this method , firstly : It defaults to clear the previous songs so a simple enter will not suffice and a P keystroke is needed to add the song while keeping the existing list . Secondly : In addition the added song will default to the top of the ' Up Next ' playlist as oppose to when you click to add a song ( in this instance the added song will default to the bottom of the list ) . I 'm only running Windows so I ca n't say the same ( or similar ) is true for Macs .
You may be able to make use of keyboard combinations by using the ALT or possibly the Windows Key . Example to Copy : Use ALT C or Windows Key C.
end question
start question
How can I disable the " no backup in x days " from TimeMachine ?
When you do n't have the external hard drive hooked up , go System Preferences >> Time Machine , and switch it to OFF . You will still be able to perform backups , it just wo n't happen automatically . This is the technique that I use , and I do n't see notifications .
You can edit the . plist file at either using a text editor , Plist Editor ( requires the OS X Developer Tools ) or the command in Terminal to remove the screensaver at login window . Like this :
The Alt key on the Mac is used differently than on Windows . Its main use is exactly what you see : To enter special ( " alternate " ) characters . Menu shortcuts and such are always triggered by a Command-key ( " ⌘ " ) combo ( sometimes including other modifier keys , such as the Alt key ) . For example , closing all open windows in Finder is [ Cmd ] - [ Alt ] - [ W ] .
If you were running Windows 7 before the reinstall , look for the following folders : \ username \ My Music \ iTunes \ Mobile Applications \ username \ My Music \ iTunes \ iTunes Music \ Mobile Applications If you were running Windows Vista before the reinstall , you should look for : \ username \ Music \ iTunes \ Mobile Applications \ username \ Music \ iTunes \ iTunes Music \ Mobile Applications If you were running Windows XP before reinstalling , look for : \ Documents and Settings \ username \ My Documents \ My Music \ iTunes \ Mobile Applications \ Documents and Settings \ username \ My Documents \ My Music \ iTunes \ iTunes Music \ Mobile Applications These are the default locations for your apps . If you had changed the location of your iTunes folder in your iTunes preferences , you could search your backup copy for a folder called " Mobile Applications " or for the app 's name .
By default this file does not exist on any version of OS X. And yes , it is up to you to create it manually : Alternatively , you could use nano as well if you want to edit the file at the same time : Do not monkey in unless you know what you 're doing .
I was having the same issue and here 's what just worked for me : Hold command , then drag it off the Favorites bar . The item will turn into a little " poof " white cloud and when you release , it 'll go away ! Finally !
It turns out the external harddrive was a lemon . I tried with a new external hard drive and it worked fine . . initial backup finished in 2 hours and time machines seems to be working fine now .
Yes - you can use Automator to make a service for Finder ( or all applications ) to perform rotation of images . Then you can assign a keyboard shortcut to that action . I 'm not aware of quicklook plug-in that rotate , but that 's something that might exist . Modifying finder 's shortcut bar might be the least likely way to activate things , but hopefully an Automator service ( or app / droplet ) will do .
The mechanism to force a full backup is n't well documented , but it does get logged to the console logs as Forcing deep traversal on source : " Macintosh HD " ... but even if this happens , the system will base the storage of new copies of files on what exists on the backup volume previously . I would add a new drive and back up to it once if you are concerned that your backup is no longer reliable . From the command line , you can then check on things with or by using a tool such as <URL> to convince yourself that specific ( or ongoing ) backups are correctly being made .
Unless you excluded the OS files from the backup , Time Machine should 've backed that up along with everything else ; but in order to recover the entire OS ( rather than just your user files ) , you have to do the restore differently : use the restore tool in <URL> ( reachable by starting the Mac with Command and R held down ) . However , there are a couple of warnings I should give about this route : I have n't tested it , but I think this form of restore will wipe out everything currently on the disk , replacing it with the earlier backup snapshot . Have you done anything important since the backup ? If so , you should back that up before going this route . If you 'd excluded any files/folders from the backup , they 'll be missing from the restore as well . It 's fairly common to exclude the OS itself from backups , so if you 'd done that this form of restore will not give you a bootable system . Because of the above , I 'd be inclined to stick with the restore you have , and simply reinstall the update . BTW , the question seems to contain a bit of a misunderstanding about how OS updates and backups work . Time Machine ( and other backup systems ) back up files and folders . An OS update is n't a file or folder that can be backed up as an item ; instead , it 's a bunch of changes to various system files and folders . If those files and folders are being backed up , the updated versions will be backed up ; if not , they wo n't be . Similarly , you ca n't restore a system update , you can only restore the changed versions of the various system files ( and since you do n't know precisely which ones were changed , that pretty much means restoring all of the system files and folders ) .
You can navigate your backup drive in the Finder . Mount it , go to the Backup folder > [ name of machine ] > [ name of volume ] > latest > Users > [ user name ] and restore the files you want . ( You can also choose a date instead of latest to restore earlier versions of the files/files that have been deleted . )
Seems feasible . The last post on <URL> says someone got it to work . <URL> ( not just sync ) though .
Enter Mission Control Hover over the selected space or hold & #x 2325 ; remove by clicking on the x
No , you ca n't disable pop-up reminders globally . You can turn off an alert by accessing the event properties in the Calendar app , but then it will be disabled in Google Agenda too .
Lion has come out with the command and the man page shows that it will crawl a specific backup and report very detailed information on your specific backups . The verbs compare , uniquesize , and calculatedrift look most useful if you do n't mind the terminal . I still use <URL> on Lion ( as well as on older OS ) and have high praise and thanks to the team that built it every time I need to use it . I should probably send them more money , too . It 's that good . It makes it very easy to see what files are taking the most space between backups and also is indispensable for knowing when a specific file has been changed by tracking each time it is saved as a new version going back in time . It works on a local database so you are not crawling the filesystem each and every query - just once each time to collect the deltas for each backup .
Disabling that feature will result in a text-only message accompanying the message where the effect was sent stating , e.g. ( sent with Slam Effect ) This replaces the effect being generated .
Go to the " Help " menu in Safari and select " Installed Plug-ins " . This will open a new tab displaying information about all of the currently installed plug-ins . Find the entry for Adobe Acrobat . Below it will be a line that reads something like : Note the name of the file from that line . On your hard drive you will find a Library folder . In that folder will be another folder called Internet Plug-Ins . Inside that folder you should find the file that was shown in the " Installed Plug-ins " tab . The full path should be . That file needs to be deleted . Dragging it to the trash will do the trick . If you are not sure you want to delete the file , you can move it to another location . For instance , you could create a new folder named " Disabled Plug-Ins " in the " Installed Plug-Ins " folder , and move the file to the new folder . Then quit &amp; relaunch Safari . Adobe acknowledges this is a " <URL> " and recommends this procedure .
Yes , you can easily go back to a previous version of os x if you have correctly saved that version using time machine . You 'll need to : connect the time machine to your mac Restart your mac and hold Command + R After the mac boots go to OS X Utilities and select Restore from a Time Machine Backup then hit next or continue A screen will show Select a backup source select your time machine bacup You will have next a screen with OS X Version and Backup Date and Time , If you want to go back to Yosemite select 10.10.X ( Mavericks is 10.9 . X )
Thankfully , you can still disable the trackpad in OS X Lion . Open System Preferences , click on Universal Access , select Mouse &amp; Trackpad and click on Trackpad Options ... at the bottom . Tick the checkbox " Ignore built-in trackpad when mouse or wireless trackpad is present " .
You can do a fresh OSX re-install . After that go into Time Machine and restore what you need .
end question
start question
Drag and drop so slow ?
When you drag onto an application on the Dock or an unopened folder in Finder , the operating system is n't sure if you just intend to drag-and-drop , or if you want to place the dragged item in a specific place once the folder or application is opened . In an application like a web browser , where a window can have multiple tabs , the application does n't know which tab you 're trying to send the item to , or if you want to open a new tab with that item to view it , or ... If you drag-and-hold over an application or unopened folder , after a few seconds the application or folder will open ( or un-minimize ) . This is called spring-loaded folders . There 's no way to disable this . In the case of folders , you can continue to open subfolders in this manner until you find the location you want . In the case of some applications , you can change what happens with the dragged item . In Chrome , for example , you can : drag onto the tab bar to open a new tab with that item for viewing drag onto the Bookmark Toolbar to create a bookmark to it drag into the address bar to open that item in the current tab drag onto a target in the loaded tab ( such as your Imgur example ) drag onto another tab in the tab bar to bring that tab to the front , and then into the address bar or a target location on the page loaded in that tab To answer your direct question : Having the application window or folder open somewhere on your desktop ( even if it 's on a different monitor that 's hooked up to your computer ) will allow you to drag directly into the open application window and drop it immediately without delay . Similarly if , somewhere on the screen , you can see the icon of a closed folder that you want to drag an item into , you can let go as soon as your mouse cursor is over the closed folder and it will drop the item into that folder without delay or opening it .
Save a plist like this as : Then load the plist with or by logging out and back in . is supposed to open an application hidden and without raising any windows . For some document-based applications like TextEdit , it opens a new visible window if the application is open but has no visible windows . and the option for were added in 10.8 . The option is only shown in the help message and not on the man page .
OS X applications are actually special folders which contain numerous smaller files , resources , binaries , localization settings , etc. . When the Finder opens a folder with a lot of apps , it needs to do a lot more than it would to open a folder with the same number of ordinary documents . At the very least , the Finder needs to check for the localized name of each app and load each app 's icon . It will also need to check whether it can launch the app , checking if it 's Intel , PPC , Universal , or Classic , possibly checking if it 's 64-bit or 32-bit , too . It 's possible the Finder is gathering other info as well , possibly checking the folder structure of each app to verify it 's actually an app , or checking its info.plist for file type associations , etc. . Lion may also verify that each app is listed in Launchpad . Of course , the more apps you have , the longer this process will take . I would guess that , unless your Macs are starved for RAM , the only way to make this process faster is to startup from an SSD instead of a conventional HD . Or perhaps delete all unneeded apps ( that were not installed by OS X ) . Also , the first time after each login , the Applications and Utilities folders may be slightly less responsive initially , even after the apps have shown up , because the Finder also needs to examine each app to calculate its total file size .
This is now a feature in iOS 6 by using Accessibility . You can enable this feature by opening Settings > General > Accessibility > Guided Access . Here you can set a Passcode , enable Guided Access , and choose whether to allow the device to sleep or not ( in this case you would want that enabled ) . After that , triple click the home button after opening the app , and configure the remainder of the settings . One Caveat : The only way to get out of Guided Access ( without entering the passcode after triple clicking the home button ) is to reboot the iDevice . This could be a good or bad thing , depending on the scenario . Obviously one could put a passcode on the device itself which would prevent the user from accessing everything else .
An application on a Mac is just a folder full of files with a . app extension . However , OS X hides this fact from you and displays the folder as a file with an icon . Now when you download something it 's very uncomfortable to download folders ( without a download manager ) . Therefore this " App Folder " has to be put inside a single file somehow . This can be done in three ways : Put in a zip file ( or comparable file format ) Put it in a dmg file ( which is kind of a flat file filesystem ) Make an installer ( which , however , also has to be either in a zip or dmg because those are folders to on a mac ) Since most apps are self-contained and do not need anything besides the App Folder , an installer is not only overkill but also slower than just distributing the app folder . You can obviously launch apps from wherever you want , it 's only a custom or a recommendation to put them into as it easier for you to find it again and it works with multiple users .
You can hide it from from Finder by setting the hidden flag with Terminal and if you want to remove the flag
By the general term " app " , you ostensibly mean App Store ? And if you did delete his Apple ID , then it would n't ask for updates . You can either use a third-party program to remove those apps , or first delete them from the applications directory , then from Application Support located at . If you can not find it , then go to Terminal , located in and execute : Then you can just delete the folder under the name of that app Then , simply logout of his Apple ID if you failed in deleting it , and login your Apple ID
I have also suffered with the " Dirty Mouse Ball " problem with the Mighty Mouse . To get it working again , I would hold it upside-down and spin the ball quickly in many directions . This worked the first few times , but later , I found it was not doing the job . I then started using a barely damp microfiber cloth while holding it upside down and rolling the little ball around as much as possible . This seemed to work a little better . Eventually , I found myself having to clean the thing multiple times a week and got tired of it . I replaced it with a Logitech mouse and then later the Magic Mouse and Track pad and I do n't miss the little ball at all . Ultimately , I suggest that you just replace the Might Mouse , even if you have to go with a non-Apple product . Otherwise , I think you will find yourself spending more time fighting the ball than using it .
I agree that since your problem occurs over many devices it is unlikely to be a problem with the Apple devices . I appreciate your point about the Ubuntu device still appearing to work , but it still seems more likely to be a router problem ( it could be for example the router is producing multiple errors that the Apple software is catching ) . I 'd suggest a hard reset of the router as Step 1 ( before you do so however make sure you know ALL your current router settings , not just your name and password . I take a screenshot of each setting page ) Most routers have a Reset button you have to press with a paperclip . Power off the router for several minutes , then apply power and do an immediate reset .
Just realized , it is on my side and my upload is saturated since I installed Photos - so it is not Apple 's fault : If I am not mistaken , it should be done in about 12-15 days .
One solution is to use virtualization to have another instance of Mac OS X running on your computer . Many virtualization applications ( such as <URL> ) let you decide how much resources an instance can have ( e.g. memory or cpu ) . Lion <URL> Mac OS X . If you do decide to go with Parallels , there 's a <URL> describing how to set up an instance of another Mac OS X Lion .
There is No : True Multi-Monitor Support for a Single Display There is no way to get the OS to treat a single display as more than one display . You Can : Fill Defined Sections of your Screen with an App You can get very close to what you are looking for with a tool like <URL> or <URL> . They will allow you to fill sections of your screen with an app . Halves , quarters , etc. .
Generally this is equivalent to dragging a file onto an app 's icon : You can use the complete path to your app if it is n't in an expected place .
So it 's been a long time since I originally posted this question . I did n't update my RAM ( although I 'm thinking about it ) , but I changed my hard drive to a Samsung SSD . The change is radical . The computer is not slow at all anymore . There are no more " freezing " , and it takes exactly 15 seconds to boot , instead of something like 1 minute or more . Any application opens almost instantly . It seems like I just bought my mac . If you want to speed up your mac ( or PC ) , you should definitely buy an SSD . I also did a clean install and copied whatever I needed from a backup . As I said , I 'm thinking of adding some RAM . I currently have 4GB but I want to buy 8GB or 16GB . I 'll let you know then , if it works or not . Please upvote this answer so that everyone can see it !
It would seem that have too many files in Spotlight does indeed slow down " All My Files " in finder . It does n't really matter that the files are in code repos , although repos do tend to have lots of files . Upon removing my ~ / Sites folder from spotlight which contains only 15GB of data , but more than half of the 500,000 files Spotlight was indexing " All my Files " came up nearly instantly again .
I do n't know if there 's a difference in Canada , but here in the US if you select the Purchased tab in iTunes , it now appears to be split into 3 sections . Music , Movies and TV Shows . This more apparent on the iPhone . On the iPad in the upper left corner is a tab indicating " View : Music " . If you tap it you can change to Movies or TV Shows .
The crucial issue is the speed of your router . Ideally you 'd have the Apple TV connected to a router via an Ethernet cable using Gigabit Ethernet ( 1000/baseT ) and your router would have WiFi N , not Wifi G ( which is slower by a factor of about five ) , for the iPhone connection . Then you 'd want to make sure that the WiFi N router was operating on a channel not subject to interference from other routers nearby , or from physical interference that would lead to signal attenuation . It would be a good idea to try putting your WiFi router in the same room as your Apple TV and your iPhone and to see if video image quality improves . If so , this is an indication that you were experiencing WiFi signal attenuation due to interference caused by the materials used in the walls of the building . Also , if this is the first time you 've used an AppleTV , and the first time you 've tried to watch HD video streaming over the Internet on your television , it may be that your Internet connection speed from your Internet service provider simply is n't fast enough to support HD video . If you have DSL , you may wish to consider upgrading to a cable modem or fiber-optic service with higher bandwidth . This year I found that AT&amp;T had made their Uverse fiber-optic service available in my neighborhood . I upgraded to Uverse and got Internet service at four times the speed of my old AT&amp;T DSL service for the same price I was paying for the slower DSL .
A few months ago my organization made the decision to make docking stations a standard item to be ordered with all Macs . We 've evaluated the Belkin Thunderbolt dock , the Matrox DS1 , the Kwikdock , the LandingZone docks and had previously used Henge docks . The Henge docks proved to be a constant pain for both users and our support team . The connections in the bottom of the dock frequently came loose , meaning the end user would lose USB connectivity , network connectivity , etc even though from their perspective the Mac appeared to be docked correctly . The Kwikdock did n't have the build quality we desired . The Belkin Thunderbolt dock and Matrox DS1 dock are both very similar in that they 're a hub that you connect all of your connections to , then connect to your Mac via a thunderbolt cable . The downsides we found to these two were cost the necessity to order a thunderbolt cable in addition to the dock . Our end users are also much more accustomed to the traditional docks offered by Dell and other PC manufacturers , were you click it into place and go . This is the same reason we did n't pre-order a Zendock . We ended up going with the LandingZone . It offers the traditional docking style that our users are accustomed to , the build quality seems to be very good , it 's much cheaper than the alternatives and can be further reduced in cost by ordering in bulk . It DOES require a separate driver for network connectivity but it 's very lightweight and they seem to be committed to providing updates in a timely fashion . I 've deployed about 25 of the LandingZones so far and aside from two support calls where it had n't been locked completely in place I 've only heard good things from my end users . We have yet to receive our 13 " Retina MBP docks but we do have a tracking number so I 'm confident they 'll arrive soon . Hope that helps !
OS X has a bit of mouse input lag and acceleration . You can fix this by installing <URL> . It works great for me in CS : GO . You can enable and disable it separately for the mouse and trackpad from the preference pane .
There could be several things here that are creating the lag time , but there is never a need to reinstall everything . Plan A : I actually do these things on the first Monday of every month Purge Caches : and . You lose some of your application preferences , but things are all but guarenteed to be snappy . Repair Permissions with the Disk Utility : You can either view permissions or fix permissions . Just go straight for fixing permissions and get a cup of tea and read a magazine while you wait . Reboot on a regular basis : I do n't care what anybody says about uptime ; the occasional reboot does wonders . My Macs are real workhorses , and I reboot Monday mornings when I get in . I rarely , if ever these days , have problems . Plan B : The Not So Obvious Let Spotlight index when it finds new stuff : Spotlight makes for good searches , but it 's indexing processes are a real hassle . If things slow down , I first look for the little dot in the magnifying glass in the menu bar icon . If that 's going , I go get a cup of coffee or find something else to do . Look for background services you may have forgotten : Also , look for any background processes that may be dragging things down . Look at your login items in the System Preferences , because maybe you have some kind of a server daemon that loads in the background you forgot about . Or maybe you have your iTunes library shared and enough people are on listening to content to slow things down ( this was also a problem at my company ) . Check free hard drive space : I have also noticed in the past that things can slow down if I do n't have enough hard drive space . Things really get wonky on my Macs when I have less than 10 % free space , so I start cleaning things off when I am at the 20 % free space threshold . Plan C : System Level Look for multiple , related processes : Check Activity Monitor for anything that might be hogging CPU time . Do n't just look for a single process that has a high number , but also look multiple processes that might be related . I recently had a problem with McAfee AntiVirus ( my company 's IT department foisted it onto us ) trying to almost continuously scan my iDisk . No process got above 2 % , but there were over a half dozen of them . Once I disconnected my iDisk , McAfee was no longer a problem . Let overnight processes run : Most days I leave my Macs on all day and all night because there a number of system processes that run at around 2:00 a , Sunday mornings being especially important ( that 's when the and processes run ) . Do a quick reboot and all should be well . Plan Z Apple Certified Technicians are your friends : Third-party system maintenance software is not . I 've been working with Macs for years and the one immutable fact that I have learned is that applications designed to help maintain the system are more trouble than they are worth . When all else fails , take it in because there may be a hardware problem at this point .
end question
start question
" Home screen pinch " in iPhone 4 ?
No . This multitouch gesture ( as well as a few others ) are iPad only . The gestures existed for iPhones and iPods in the iOS 4.3 Beta , but were removed before the public release . iOS 5.0 re-introduced the gestures for iPad .
Do you mean to Jailbreak your phone , or to unlock it so you can use it on a different network ? Unlocks currently depend on your firmware version , which you can check by going to settings >> general >> about and looking at the version number . If you can confirm then we could find the right unlock for your phone , supposing it can be unlocked .
What 's an FKEY ? FKEY 's ( Function Keys ) are resources containing executable code that are called upon by hitting the keys Command-Shift - # ( any number 0-9 ) at the same time . In the standard System file there are two FKEY 's ; with an ID # 3 and # 4 that are used to dump the current screen or window onto disk or printer .1 So far as I can remember/find , screenshot commands were first added to the OS itself in <URL> .2 1 Text and image from <URL> by John Holder ( MacTech magazine , 1988 ) 2 Further reading/references : <URL> and a forum posting from 2003 , <URL> ( the latter of which features some guy named <URL> ) .
Your iPhone 4 supports iOS 5.0 , which can now sync photos wirelessly using <URL> . For setup instructions , see <URL>
Try turning off your home WiFi . A kind of interference , maybe ?
Yes , without a doubt . Unlike with the new ability to update only changes to the OS with iOS 5 delta updates , downgrading your OS will require you to restore the phone . Which essentially reformats the drive .
USB 2.0 is faster , but Wi-Fi is better . In practice , Wi-Fi will be superior to USB for syncing and backup since you do n't have to worry about plugging it in . It can start as soon as you enter the network , throttle itself based on CPU/iOS activity . You can even start on WiFi and connect your iOS 5 device to USB and syncing will continue at faster speeds if WiFi proves to be slow for a particular sync session . My experience is the devices can do their thing and sync in the background without me waiting for them and I 'm almost always the slowest peg in the process . :-) However , USB 2.0 speed is faster than 802.11 n both in theory and in practice . See this chart from a <URL> on relative speeds relating to Time Capsule performance . The one area where USB ( or any other wired connection whether it 's USB 2.0 , 3.0 , FireWire or Thunderbolt ) is better than Wi-Fi is <URL> . If your sync session is largely lots of little checks and no appreciable time is spent waiting for large files to transfer , then the wired connection could be much faster if your sessions are shorter than 15 to 30 seconds in length . Here 's another nice article explaining how even a slow USB 2.0 connection can be fast enough for some demanding data transfers : <URL> <URL>
Does it recognize that it has connected to my car 's phone system via bluetooth ? This . Precisely this . It also works if you connect the device to your car system over USB ( not just charging , but actually connected to receive phone calls ) , or start CarPlay if supported by your car .
Found it : The UserDir module in Apache2 defaults to public_html . So ~ studentname was being directed to / Users/studentname/public _ html . Which does n't exist in any of the users ' folders . What does exist is / Users/studentname/Sites , so I just added this line to the httpd.conf : ... and it 's working perfectly now . Awesome ! Many thanks to @bmike for pointing me in the right direction .
Launch the iPod App on your iPhone . At the bottom of the screen , you should see a button with 3 blue dots . As you can see here , there is a list item at the bottom of the page . Click that , which should bring you to a screen like : Click the name of the computer that you see in your list and then all of the videos , movies , tv shows , etc , will appear in your lists for those items . In other words , the iPod App wo n't keep the home-shared content separate . You will see the Home Sharing content as if it was integrated with the device .
That is pretty bizarre . The iPhone 4 is <URL> for a total of 512MB , but it sounds like , for some reason , your phone is n't seeing one of them . Your numbers bear this out too - the iPhone hardware sets aside 9MB of the total memory , resulting in the OS seeing 503MB or , in your case , 247MB . Definitely take it in and try to exchange it or replace it .
It depends on the cause of the yellowing . I personally have seen the following situations : Psycological yellow where any time you have a black border and a white area , the brain will color the white yellow . If you hide the black with a piece of white paper , the yellowness magically disappears . Permanent manufacturing problem where the LCD is pinched internally , damaged , or otherwise really emitting a permanent yellow cast as measured by a <URL> such as the <URL> . Temporary yellowness ( very rare - I 've just seen this a few times ) . I do n't know why or when it went away , but several people sure agreed that one phone was off until it was restored . I do n't know if it was some odd warmup temporary hardware issue , but after it was restored , it looked and tested fine with the Spyder . Do keep in mind , not all displays are made in the same batch , same factory and that combined with the backlight settings can make a pretty large difference between models . If it 's convenient to have it checked out , or you can take a picture of the colors and it 's totally obvious yours has some severe color tint , then take it in and ask for a repair . If not , you 'll likely need hours of time and expensive tools to even tell your phone is unique to another after using it to play games for a day or two . It will just be right and your brain will compensate for whatever calibration your phone has . A restore of the device is also a good thing to try so you do n't needlessly waste time going in for service since that is the most obvious cause of the LCD passing all inspections along manufacture but you having colors that seem off to your eye at the point of receiving a new phone out of the box .
According to <URL> and <URL> the iPhone 4 is somewhat slower than the iPad , but still significantly faster than the iPhone 3GS . I guess that its A4 CPU is clocked at about 750 - 850 MHz .
Apple 's design is not at all a traditional or typical UNIX layout for user files , user preferences or application files and preferences so I would say this is just Apple . They do document exactly how developers are supposed to design OS X apps to take advantage of the " canonical " locations where files and preferences should be stored so that each user can decide to install any application in one or several locations . / Applications / Another volume/Aplications ~ / Applications or anywhere else on the drive since on OS X - you do n't need to place an application anywhere as long as the user can read from the folder - an app should run and store things in the proper pace ( which is NOT in the application folder itself ) . Here are three articles I would start with to learn more : <URL> <URL> <URL> Start Here and skip past the iOS part and go directly to Table 1-2 for OS X summary of important folders .
You can do this by sharing your MacBook Pro 's internet connection - typically called an ad-hoc network . You will need to connect your USB aircard , and then open System Preferences > Sharing > Internet Sharing . ( <URL> ) Select USB from the drop down menu next to " Share your connection from : " . Then select the " Wifi " from the checkboxes below . Check the Internet Sharing option to the left , then join it with your iPhone . <URL> that you may find helpful in setting up an ad-hoc network . While you are using USB the steps <URL> should be very similar to your situation .
I 'll make my comment into an answer . For your particular situation , you do n't need to temporarily disconnect from home Wi-Fi . When you realise that the Wi-Fi does n't work properly and you want to switch to 4G it 's only necessary to start the personal hotspot from settings .
Create a black image in your favorite image editor ( even Paint will do if you 're on Windows ) , save it as a jpeg , and e-mail or sync it to the phone . Then set that image as the background . Since you 're making it all black , I doubt the resolution is going to matter much , but you can always use 960 x 640 to use the iPhone 4 's standard resolution . Edit to add a black image that works :
Web clips added by a profile can be set to not be able to be deleted with the X , therefore hiding the X when in edit mode . To remove a web clip added in this way , you need to remove the profile from Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Profiles . You can also try disabling restrictions if they are on . Go to Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Restrictions and switch it off , then try removing the web clips .
I 'm not following why everyone else is saying this ca n't be done . I have people facetime me all the time on my phone , by using my AppleID email address . I also contact others this same way , and it works just fine . In fact it has the added bonus of ringing ALL iDevices linked to that address . So when someone facetimes my AppleID , it rings on my iPhone , Mac , and iPad all at the same time , allowing me to answer it wherever I am at that moment . I did n't do anything special to set this up ... just went into FaceTime under Settings , and added the email address ( es ) I wanted people to be able to reach me on . Works fine . Maybe this is specifically a problem on the iPhone 4 as opposed to the 4s which is what I have ?
Requirements iPhone / iPad running iOS8 Mac running OS X 10.10 Yosemite How to Record iPhone/iPad Screen on OS X Yosemite Connect the iPhone/iPad to Mac via USB Open the QuickTime Player on the Mac Select Quicktime will default select iSight camera , click on the arrow alongside the record button to select the iPhone/iPad . Click on the record button to record the iPhone/iPad Screen
end question
start question
Is an iMac upgradable to a 256 GB SSD ?
Yes , it 's possible to replace your internal SATA drive with an SSD . <URL> guide to make sure you have all the tools/space to do that , it 's not hard , but it requires you to be careful and do it with patience , especially when removing the screen ( which must be done using suction cups ) . You can replace the Optical Drive with a Data Doubler and install any SATA drive in it . For example using the <URL> . Plan all this ahead , since you only want to do the iMac disassembly once . ;) Make sure that the Data Doubler is compatible with your model ( if not available you might have to wait a few weeks before they release a compatible model , it has always been like that ) . That way you 'll have an additional SSD Drive . Regarding the second part of your question , yes , you can either put the original drive ( 1TB ) in the Optical Drive and put the SSD where the original HDD was or you can install the SSD in the Data Doubler and boot from there . You can always install OS X in the SSD , boot from it , migrate some information from your 1TB drive and when you 're ready , format the old 1TB drive and use it as a secondary drive for whatever evil purposes you want , like to store your Home Folder ( search Ask Different for instructions on how to do that ) .
Yes - Apple provides an internal SATA drive with standard connectors but custom firmware . <URL> if you take the screen off carefully you can replace it , you may have to buy a bracket to secure it SSD that do n't match the existing 2.5 inch drive mounting screws . Looking at the steps it does n't seem to be to complicated to do but with the 5k iMac you need to be extremely careful since you have to remove the speakers . I would paste in the step by step images however there a load of them and you would be better off going to the site and taking a look at the images . Also make sure you have the right screw drivers since its a t20 screw you would need a T20 * 100m screw driver .
On the immediate downsides - You will need special tools and be handling some delicate parts . Also , there is <URL> causes the fans to run faster with non-apple drives . If you really want to get dust between the LCD and the front glass on a brand new mac and take the chance of ripping a tiny ribbon cable - just do some research at ifixit.com or talk with a local tech that works on new iMacs a lot . Do also research fan control and know if you are not planning on an Apple specification drive to install . My guess is Apple SSD are expensive because the parts are cherry picked to be the best of a lot ( more so than the SSD consumers buy ) and perhaps loaded with custom firmware and generally have temp sensors specific to the mac . I could be totally wrong , but even if you feel the drives are overpriced , Apple installing any SSD is better than a consumer due to the labor for for installing them is almost nil as they are installed at the most economical time - at assembly . If you ca n't afford it now - why not expand to an external SSD over firewire or ThunderBolt later . They are totally silent and small . It just seems the risks of DIY on a new mac make it better for most people to pay a trained tech to do the install .
In Canada this is not legal . <URL> but private copies are for your own use , they can not be given away . There 's some contrast here with CDs that 's interesting . With physical media like tapes or CDs the " owner " is the person in possession of the original copy . This definition made it legit , at least in Canada , to borrow original materiel , copy it , and then return it . The levy on the CD-R covered the royalty payment for the copy ( in theory ) and you were n't obligated to destroy copies if the original left your possession . With downloaded content you ca n't give away the original in the same sense as physical media . Lending downloaded media and non-private copying of downloaded media are essentially indistinguishable actions . Some legal alternatives in Canada : Buy all the songs in physical format and make your mix tape from those Buy her the tracks as gifts via iTunes Buy you and her a month subscription to <URL> and make her a shared playlist there Downloaded content has taken all the romance out of making mix tapes , that 's for certain .
If you are using something like the <URL> drive from MCE Tech , you an put either drive in the caddy . I prefer to make a single change at a time , so when I did this I put the new drive in the caddy and left the old working boot drive alone . As for installing from a USB thumb drive ( I assume this is what you meant since you were n't clear ) , you should n't have to . You can download the Mountain Lion installer and run the app . During the install process you can choose what drive to install the OS on , simple choose the newly installed and formatted SSD . Once you have both OS installed , the system will remember the last drive that was selected in the Startup Disk preferences and store that choice in NVRAM so that it will continue to start from the preferred drive . You can hold the option key at boot to prevent this choice and pick from all bootable drives when you want to switch things on a specific boot . Most people find that having two OS internally is confusing . Spotlight will try to find the correct version of Safari if you do n't keep them both updated , but sometimes you end up running the wrong version of an app . This is confusing at best , and troublesome most of the time and can cause data issues when the wrong version of an app opens data it did n't expect from a newer version of iPhoto for instance .
You can not transmit the output of your Windows screen through an iMac display , but there is one way to work that you may find quite appealing : Microsoft Remote Desktop . MS has a remote desktop client application that is a free download from the App Store . On your Windows machine , you change System preferences in Control Panel to enable remote access . In the Remote Desktop app on your iMac , you create a machine profile that specifies the Windows computer name or IP address , your account username and your password . It supports fullscreen mode , so your Windows login will be plenty big on your 27 " display . I use the application daily to remotely administer Windows desktops and servers all over the country . From the comfort of my MacBook .
Usually , ground loop current is experienced on portables where often no ground wire is connected - just the neutral and live ( or hot ) wires . If you are using a grounded plug and feel <URL> you should either have the outlet serviced or the computer serviced . It 's normal ( and safe ) for ground loop current to exist and feel lightly tingly on Macs with magsafe connectors and only DC power going in to them . It 's harder to be sure an iMac or other device that has 110/220 AC power directly into the case , so I would rather be too cautious and have you get an electrician to look at the outlet if your Mac works properly on other outlets or a technician to look at the Mac if it leaks current no matter which receptacle you plug it in to . You might be able to find a grounding issue and solve this yourself , but if you have any doubts as to safety , I 'd rather you chose to get expert help rather than trust our guesses based on how things should work . See : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> And note that all the MacBook questions are low risk situations where any iMac one would be a little more danger ( potentially ) .
Yes and No . There 's not a final answer on this . There are some basic things you do n't want to do : Never fill your drive , always try to have a minimum of a 20 % of the drive free , SSD performance goes down fast when the drive is full or close to it . Even with trim and whatever the OS does , at some point in 1 , 2 , 3 , n years you might have to completely reformat/repartition the drive to gain some speed . This has been true on Windows Machines ( I 've seen it ) . My MacBook Air ( 1 year old ) has n't yet shown any signs of slowness . SSDs have a limited number of writes before they wear out . At some point blocks just stop working , so if you are constantly writing/deleting files , you 're essentially wearing out your SSD faster than the average ( however this number is huge , say it can last 10 + + years under normal usage ) . One is expected to change the drive by then :) I recommend you google around , there are multiple guides and advice pages . You will find <URL> relatively accurate and up-to-date . Bear in mind that technology in the future may change and the article ( and this answer ) may be rendered obsolete if , for example , SuperSSDs are created and they do n't wear out or have a 1.000.000 years life-span :D
If you go to the Apple logo : Then : click ' About This Mac ' This opens a window with four tabs . The ' overview ' tab shows the current system you are running .
No . Apple actually disclaims that a brand new Mac will work reliably . Only that they will repair it , replace it , or refund your purchase if you seek warranty service under the conditions of the one year warranty : APPLE DISCLAIMS ALL STATUTORY AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES , INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION , WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND WARRANTIES AGAINST HIDDEN OR LATENT DEFECTS Above from the US hardware warranty page at <URL> for a Mac Pro Furthermore , Apple has a long standing policy of cutting off the vast majority of repair service for Macs 5 years from the date when they remove it from sale . <URL> - Vintage and obsolete products There are some exceptions where you can get support between years 5 and 7 , but after 7 years , Apple and Apple Authorized Service Centers often flat out deny repair requests due to lack of support or part availability . I can not find any G5 or PPC machine that is n't officially designated by Apple as obsolete in 2015 . So - in summary , a new Mac Pro is n't sold with the expectation that it will even work for one year and the expectation that it might need repairs . Certainly second hand older machines wo n't be vouched for by Apple to have a working life of 10 years from now . That does n't mean some G5 will run for decades to come , just that the one you buy might or might not be the exception to things wearing out eventually .
You certainly can make two or more physical drives into one volume that the OS sees . It 's referred to as a <URL> - and Disk Utility will erase both drives in preparation for a RAID - you can choose an actual RAID stripe or simple concatenation . Since Macs wo n't boot from a RAID volume without some additional hardware or extra software ( to handle the added complexity that RAID entails ) , you wo n't be able to use this for your boot volume . Even if you could , I would n't advise doing this since the OS decides where to store files inside any volume . If your goal is to control what files go to the SSD and which to the HDD - this does n't get you any closer to that goal . The good news is there is an excellent " Plan B " for you The best writing I have seen recently on how to both think about using a SSD with a HDD that also covers how exactly to implement a split was written recently by <URL> - He really knows his stuff in general and his article titled <URL> is great reading . Matt advocates installing the OS and most user data on the SSD place user data that wo n't fit on the SSD instead on the HDD implementing this by moving entire top level folders from the SSD home folder and placing them on the HDD . using soft ( sym ) links to connect the two locations . I hope that gives you a better solution to what I see as the major thrust to your question . You might also look at using Aliases ( OS X Finder 's enhanced version of a sym link that points at unique characteristics of the file as well as the path in case either gets moved and the system can figure out ( re-link ) to the correct/new location of the file . )
Try <URL> : Actually , you should be able to do it by removing a hidden system file which tells OS X that setup has run . It 's a hidden file , so you will have to remove it using Terminal , or show hidden files in Finder . You can remove the file like so : ... then restart your computer immediately .
Nope , this is not possible . Target display mode only works if both machine are in macOS , as mentioned in the Apple KB article <URL> . If your iMac is currently started up in Windows , it wo n't enter Target Display Mode . Target Display Mode is n't supported in Boot Camp .
is an application that will show you hardware information to determine which bus the CD drive is connected . Once you know your hardware specifications , you can shop better . Check <URL> and <URL> for housings that work physically with SATA connectors . Also check <URL> on the issues you might face moving to an SSD / HD combination .
Taken from <URL> support article : OS X Recovery includes a built in set of utilities as part of the Recovery System . To start your computer from Recovery , restart your Mac and hold down the Command key and the R key ( Command-R ) . Press and hold these keys until the Apple logo appears . The recovery feature is limited to OS X Lion , Mountain Lion , Mavericks , Yosemite , and El Capitan .
What about Cobook ? <URL> There 's a mac app and an iPhone app AND it 's free !
If it 's Safari 5.1 you 're in the same boat as a lot of people . The recommended suggestion is bail out and go to Chrome , but I like Safari so I 've stuck with it . I 've completely removed Flash from my system ( I sandbox it in Chrome ) , I trash Safari 's cache once a week , I completely shut Safari once every 4 hours , and I never have more than 10 tabs open at once . That keeps it relatively stable , but I 'm probably going to move to Chrome as it 's a bit much for one app .
Your Macbook can have as much as 3GB of RAM . Check it first . Buy an Optical Disk Drive to HDD adaptor on ebay ( 9.5 mm PATA to SATA variant ) . Put you HDD there . Crucial is good . 64GB is enough for me , SATA150 and probably you . Small read/writes are same between different sizes and you will not get those faster linear RW anyway -- why pay more when you can have platters to store those big files ? Still it 's wiser to sell your Macbook as is and buy anything unibody ( used ) for a bit more -- you 'll get better graphics to help with flash ( I have such a notebook and know how pathetically slow it becomes when flash is on ) . And then max that unibody Macbook with RAM ( which is DDR3 and cheaper ) and SSD .
You need an app , like <URL> running continuously on a logged in Mac .
The recovery partition on your original disk was the only supported method until the <URL> was made available . The bulk of this answer was written before the official steps were published - so I would recommend the Recovery Disk Assistant even though HT4718 steps help understand what is happening under the hood . <URL> The easiest is to get a drive enclosure or adapter and re-run the Lion installer from the Recovery HD and install Lion onto the new SSD . It likely wo n't matter if the drive with the recovery HD is on an external bus or an internal bus , but I would keep the original drive inside the mac until you have Lion installed on your SSD connected to an external port . Boot off the SSD to test it and run migration from the internal drive to the SSD before doing swapping the drives inside your mac . It still boggles my mind that any mac will ship without some sort of reinstall media . Look in the center of the box , under where the mac sat . Call apple if your media is missing so they can ship it to you or point out how they want you to reinstall the OS on a new drive . Your mac 's hard drive is listed as a consumer replaceable part , so they have to provide you with the steps to do that .
end question
start question
How can I convert 60FPS videos to work on an iPhone 4 ?
I found out the solution ! It seems the iPhone 4 can play back 60 FPS H. 264 videos up to 640px horizontal resolution . Anything beyond that gave me the dreaded format not compatible error when syncing to iTunes . 640x480 or 640x360 work great and boy are they lifelike . I successfully used QuickTime ( Export using MPEG-4 Video settings ) , and MediaCoder iPod Edition to convert videos to the 640xXXX @ 60 FPS H. 264 format profile as high as Main@L3.1 .
There are a few extensions that will add a nice download button to the Youtube video page , and give you the option to download in various resolutions . <URL> <URL> <URL> You can also try <URL> , which does a lot more than just offer a download link , but it does that , and it 's one of my favourite extensions . Makes watching web video much nicer .
Option 2 in your question is the correct one . In the <URL> section of the upgrade program site you posted it says you have to pay 11 monthly payments ( you might as well think of it as 12 months because the upfront payment is in essence your first month ) . So when you have paid the monthly installment 11 times , you have 2 options : Turn in the phone for an upgrade while restarting both timers ( the 11 monthly payments + 1st down payment and the 20 month full contract ) . Continue paying for the phone until the 20 month contract is done and the phone is 100 % yours . The important thing here is that you are never paying for your old phone once you upgrade it .
As a developer , you can control exactly which hardware you want to support and which you will not support by picking the source code you use and properly tagging the files you upload to Apple . The iOS app store then can prevent the devices you have disallowed from downloading the app . So , there 's nothing to prevent a developer from targeting only iPhone 4 with their code or just targeting a specific iOS version . It 's up to you ( and each other developer ) to decide on a build-by-build basis , so the general answer would be : No , there is no guarantee that all apps ( or any one app ) that run ( s ) on iPhone 4 will also run on iPod Touch ( 4th generation ) .
The iPhone 4 does not have a radio tuner . All it has is the appropriate cellular band , WiFi , and Bluetooth . In short , no there is no easy way to do this . Some radio stations make apps so you can stream their content via the internet , or offer live streams . I would check out the radio station 's website to see what they have available .
The iPhone simply wo n't draw as much through the charger as the iPad would . Certainly should n't cause a problem at all ( and my money 's where my mouth is because we just have the iPad charger plugged in these days , using it for our iPad as well as our 2 iPhone 4s - we 've been doing this for about 5-6 weeks now without any obvious ill-effects ) .
If you can bring the image into Disk Utility , use the convert option . Choose CD/DVD master , it will save as a . cdo . Rename to . iso .
Assuming you still have the AT&amp;T - SIM card ( To verify , go into Settings > General > About > Carrier ) , AT&amp;T will not allow you to change the APN settings , even on unlocked phone . You need a SIM card from a carrier that <URL> , that will depend on where are you going . Usually if you go to the new carrier they have a section <URL> how to . Some more helpful <URL> .
In short you ca n't . Apple has a very efficient supply chain so the window where they sell devices that are n't the latest version is very limited . On occasion a service replacement unit can sit in the " supply " chain a bit longer , so I have seen several people still getting phones from the Genius Bar / AppleCare with iOS 4 loaded . I would expect that to be mostly over as well . You will likely have to find a seller of a device and you can always ask for the serial number or look for one with AppleCare still active in case you have suspicions of the motivation of the seller . ( and since you or others may wonder ) There really is n't a good way to tell if a phone has been stolen ( no police database ( and if there were it could always be reported stolen at a later date ) . Due to privacy concerns you ca n't get data on prior owners from Apple . You do run the risk of problems if the device you buy ends up being stolen goods . You do run the risk of having to do some work to ensure any return policy is workable if you need to locate the seller if the phone does n't work as advertised . Given your problem you might offer to sell a brand new in-the-box phone and once you had a buyer , use your AT&amp;T subsidy to offset the cost of a new unlocked iPhone for your wife . It all depends how valuable your time is and how hot your local market is for current AT&amp;T phones . I would feel a lot more comfortable buying a phone when I could come to the store with you and see the new phone being bought . You could be sure the buyer had the cash in hand and everyone should end up happy .
The <URL> says that it has the same front panel ( i.e. same positions for the Home button , LCD , sensors and earpiece ) . Other sites have also confirmed that it 's the same layout as the CDMA iPhone 4 . It should work with any case made for the CDMA iPhone 4 , and some of the less precise GSM iPhone 4 cases ( i.e. ones with large cutouts around the buttons ) . It should also work with any Apple bumper purchased from January on , as those were designed to work with the GSM &amp; CDMA iPhone 4 . The 4S also has 4 symmetrically positioned black strips ( gaps between the antenna segments ) , 2 on each side , just like the CDMA 4 . It also has a GSM slot , which is pretty much the only distinguishing feature between the CDMA 4 and the 4S .
If the song is already in iTunes , it 's easy to do it right within it . Go to the iTunes Preferences and choose " Import Settings " on the " General " page . You can set the desired output format here . Afterwards , select the songs you would like to convert and choose Advanced > Create XY Version , where XY is the file format you specified in the Import Settings . When iTunes has finished converting the files , you will have each track twice - you could use a smart playlist to filter the ones in the new format . Bear in mind that converting from one lossy format to another lossy format will always result in a lower quality .
I know you asked if it was possible over Bluetooth and although my research did n't turn up anything for non-jailbroken phones , here is a WiFi solution which you could use on an Ad-hoc network that would work effectively the same way . Non Jailbroken WiFi : <URL> iPhone to iPhone : <URL> Jailbroken <URL> ( Cydia )
Sorry for the self-answer , but I found a way to do it quickly using just the iPhone and no third-party software . In iOS 4.3 , do the following : Open Camera.app Click the photo thumbnail to view the photo library Click Camera Roll to view all photos There 's a capsule button at the top that says ' All | Photos | Videos ' . Select videos Press the Export icon - you can now tap on videos to select them before hitting Delete . Not sure why this functionality is not available from Photos.app , but there you go . Thanks for all the other answers .
You can use something like <URL> to drag and drop them into the / User/Media/DCIM / 100Apple ( last one may be different ) directory . I know it works with pictures , but I have n't had a chance to test with video . But I do n't see why it would n't work once the database is updated . If you 're jailbroken and transfer a video , that the phone can play , with iPhone Explorer ( works on Mac and Windows for iPad and iPod too ) or through SSH ( with the OpenSSH package from Cydia ) , <URL> can add it to the camera roll ( same with pictures , and it does n't matter where they are if you use the SSH and iFile method ) . Not exactly drag and drop but you do n't have to go through iTunes . iPhone Explorer does not require the iDevice to be jailbroken . Also if you got the VLC Player app before Apple pulled it you can drag and drop almost any video type into the app via the " File Sharing " box in iTunes in the App tab . ( If the phone is jailbroken you can still get the VLC player from Cydia )
Try <URL> . It is free and should handle most kinds of video formats . The method for recognising AVCHD format is with regard to Apple Video applications , and not QuickTime . Those applications have the reader for that format . But you 're only interested in viewing them so I suggested VideoLan . Also there is a QuickTime plugin which recognises many formats , but I have never tried it with AVCHD or MTS formats . It is called <URL> . Please note that it is no longer supported in the form of updates but it is still offered on the official site .
Have a look at <URL> . Freeware and Open source . Has a GUI .
It 's not going to work because Sprint will not let you add her phone to their network . Sprint limits subscribers to phones specifically sold for the Sprint network . Verizon has a similar policy . You may , however , be able to get the phone to work with a different carrier . Many European companies typically sell unlocked phones , so if the phone was purchased in Europe , it may already be unlocked . In that case , the only issue would be to find a network that supports the phone in the United States . Considering that European countries often use GSM networks , you may be able to use AT&amp;T , T-Mobile , and possibly some other carriers . If you need to use the phone for only a short time in the United Staes , you may want to buying an <URL> sim card or a similar contractless service from another carrier . If you do , however , need to use the Sprint network then you should keep in mind that the two phones support different LTE bands so it 's likely that you both would lose access to LTE . It 's not certain because there is some overlap but it 's quite likely . <URL> Here 's the FAQ for Sprint unlocking : <URL>
You may restore your iPhone to 4.2.1 , but you need the SHSHs for your device as Apple servers only allow 4.3 firmware at the moment , I think .
You can use the Universal Access preferences to play the same audio in both channels :
It 's looking like a bug . On the phone , if I have a contact that already has a first and last name entered , there is still an option to add a further first and last name field . If I add and fill in the fields , then view the contact in iCloud.com when it has synced , it shows the phonetic first and last names as already in use , with the details I entered . If I remove the additional fields , and then try to add them back using the phonetic first and last names fields which are available on the website version , then sync back they sync to the additional first/last name fields as originally shown . So , in short it looks like they forgot to include the word " phonetic " on iOS5 running on ( at least ) iPhone 4 , the fields are there , and they sync correctly , they just do not show properly .
end question
start question
Is it possible to play sound through both the headphone jack and my internal speakers ?
In my experience , the answer is no . As soon as you plug in the headphones into the 3.5 mm jack , it replaces the internal speakers as the default output ( and vice versa when you unplug them ) . There are several <URL> <URL> as to whether this is actually a limitation in the hardware or the software , but the end result always seems to be the same . Now this may not answer specifically what you 're asking , but for interest , the only time I 've had any success with simultaneous headphone and speaker output is when using a USB device , such as a headset or USB speakers . In order to get this to work , you 'll need to plug in the USB device , then do the following : Start the Apple " Audio MIDI Setup " utility ( ) Select the " + " in the bottom-left and select " Create Multi-Output Device " Select the Multi-Output Device that has been added and in the right-hand pane , select both the " Built-in Ouput " and your USB device . That should look something like this : Start " System Preferences " → " Sound " and click the " Output " tab . Select the " Multi-Output Device " thats now there . An unfortunate side-effect of this , as " The selected device has no output controls " eludes to is that you now ca n't control the volume in the normal manner . To do this , you 'll have to go back to Audio MIDI Setup and do it from there for each of the outputs . So be careful with those headset and speaker levels to begin with !!! And thats it :) So , now when you play a song in iTunes , for instance , that should come out of both the headset and the speakers . However , whilst all this may be largely academic without a USB headset or speakers , I did also come across the <URL> which says : iMic supports both mic and line level inputs via a selectable switch , and provides a line-level output for connecting speakers or headphones . I 've not tried it , but if you 're willing to spend the money , that may allow you to connect a pair of headphones with a normal 3.5 mm jack then , using the method above , get audio out of both the internal speakers and the headphones simultaneously .
<URL> appears to connect to the Bluetooth in your phone in order to be able to control it 's audio output . You could also purchase a dock with a remote for your iPhone . A remote of this nature would have a hardware Play/Pause button on it which you could press to quickly stop the music . For the sake of example : <URL> of what I 'm talking about . One other thing : double tapping the home button when the iPhone is locked comes up with Play/Pause controls which you could tap with your knuckle or something . This is also a fast and easy way to change tracks in general .
I know I 'm replying on an old question , but I came in here googling . My iPhone 4 had the same behavior , I just updated to iTunes 10 and I my music is no longer greyed out . In essence : upgrade to iTunes 10 and you should be able to do this .
Tapping with the trackpad has a delay while the trackpad decides which gesture you are performing . Disabling some gestures will remove this delay in certain cases : If " Smart zoom " is turned on , then a two-finger tap needs to wait to see if you are performing a two-finger double tap . If dragging is enabled ( " with drag lock " or " without drag lock " ) , then a one-finger tap needs to wait to see if you are performing a double tap . ( This setting hides in the Accessibility preference pane . )
With the native Finder app that comes with OS X is not possible to have tabs . If you really need them you can use some Finder replacement app , like <URL> or <URL> ( both not free ) .
Here is my little script to do what you are asking for . Tested on a couple of tracks on my iTunes 11 under Snow Leopard and it run just fine . EDIT : You can get a glimpse of what is going on by looking at the output it sents to the Events pane . Just run it inside the Applescript Editor and click on the Events &amp; Replies buttons to unhighlight them . EDIT2 : To limit the script you can change the line to
One iCloud account is the primary account and only that account can use Find My Phone and Backup services , so to have one account with multiple devices implies that that same account also gets the iCloud backups . However , iCloud does n't co-mingle a backup from one iPhone 5 and another iPhone 5 ( although you may want to choose different names for each to avoid confusion when restoring if you happen to have two of the same device ) . Unless you are OK switching up accounts manually to push a backup to an alternate account and then switch right back , there currently is n't a way to do this with stock / unjailbroken iOS .
Go to ~ / Library/Logs / find the log file , and delete it . Or , if there is n't a log file for Automator there , go to / Library/Logs and find the file there .
The bootcamp FAQ is helpful for these sorts of questions <URL> <URL>
There used to a be a method where by you edited the iTunes Music Library.xml file on the second computer to make your device think the two computers are the same computer . I 'm not sure if it works any more though . Explanation guide <URL> Alternatively the easier way of doing it is to take advantage of <URL> and use an application from the app store . The advantage of this is that most app store video playback applications support more file formats than would be supported though the default video playback app so you wo n't need to do any conversion before copying the videos across . The application I would recommend , and use myself , is <URL>
The erase is very secure - I 've not heard of a single success in recovering any data from a one pass zero with modern hard drives . As to what really happened , it depends on what setup your computer has . In the case of FileVault 2 , the erase process is very rapid . Everything on the drive is scrambled - even blank space looks no different than a file like a spreadsheet or a picture . The erase command simply destroys the cryptographic keys and effectively destroys everything in a short amount of time . In the case where you do n't have Filevauly , I believe a normal one pass zero is performed based on how long it takes . I do n't see any official documentation from Apple and also have n't seen someone forensically analyze an erase ( or trap the filesystem using a remote debugger or a SATA drive that logs commands ) to be sure . Either way , at the end of the erase process , you get an email , so when you send an erase , you 'll know when it started and when it finished and can conclude which erase actually happened . In your case , your Mac probably received the erase command nearly instantly , so you can now perform a single pass zero ( assuming you are n't going to send in the drive for data recovery ) and time that to compare with Apple 's erase . A seven pass erase is basically seven times as long as a one pass erase so the timings should be easily observable to deduce the type and number of passes .
LittleSnapper keeps it 's images in special library file , so the only way to copy images is to do the long way that you described . I 'd recommend you get on the LittleSnapper discussion board over at RealMac to add your voice to the group of users who 'd also like to get at their images in a more flexible way . <URL>
It depends what you mean by : use them both at the same time So , Apple 's usage of two GPUs is based on <URL> . Meaning as a user , you can not " use them both at the same time . " Now , if you 're talking about using them both as a programmer , well then anything is possible , and you <URL> . Most applications written for OSX though will target GPUs using OpenCL , which is Apple 's abstraction of the GPU . This means apps will call on the GPU when needed , and because Apple 's implementation is one GPU at a time ( not both ) , then most apps will only use one , not both . NOTE : This is in regards to using multiple GPU chipsets , not multiple core within a chipset . Obviously OSX and OpenCL can use multiple cores .
You will need the same type of headset that you use with an iPhone . It will have one 3.5 mm plug that carries both the stereo audio and mic input ( aka a TRRS plug ) . Some examples are apple 's own <URL> , Sennheiser 's PX 200-II i 's , and any other iPhone headset .
Boom is most likely the culprit to your speaker failing . Boom uses algorithms to increase the overall volume of the track to a point without clipping . Pushing speakers beyond what they are supposed to do can and will cause damage to them . The reason the speakers have a maximum volume is that is the safest high fidelity sound they can produce . Here is a review of how boom works algorithmically <URL> Note the overall wave form increase in the article . This will cause damage , clipping and distortion with prolonged use .
Yes ! Hold down ⇧ Shift while dragging the divider ( between applications &amp; documents ) . The dock will snap to the left , bottom , or right side of the screen as you drag it .
To start emacs just type emacs ↩ This tells the shell to look for an executable file emacs in a directory listed in the PATH environment variable . When in emacs run the command tetris that is escxtetris The controls are the arrow keys Note that something seems to be wrong with the score file e.g. it wo n't save high scores etc. .
I 've found a great <URL> on that . It shows a list of every app that is compatible with any given iOS version . Do n't try to download the app from them , though , just get the name of it and find it on the App Store .
Yes . You can make it so you do n't see the dock by adding a very long delay to the animation so that in practice , you never leave the mouse on the " expose the dock " target long enough to see it . This is technically a " workaround " since the dock is still there , just slower to appear than we care about on our timescale . Two steps are needed to set this up . One , activate auto-hide in System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Dock & #x 2192 ; Autohide or type & #x 2318 ; + & #x 2325 ; + D Two , open the Terminal an type : You 're set up now . In this example , it takes 100 seconds for the dock to appear . Make the timer even longer if you like , this long delay eventually helps you to forget that the dock is even there . Reset to default behavior by typing :
Check if you have the new Gmail app installed . Every time it gets a new email , it triggers the " iphone Text Message sound " . The sound can be disabled via Settings app > Notifications > Gmail > uncheck Sound .
end question
start question
Which cities have " flyover " in iOS 6 Maps ?
Australia Australia Sydney Europe Denmark Copenhagen France Lyon Germany Berlin Munich Ireland Dublin Italy Milan Rome Spain Barcelona Madrid United Kingdom London Birmingham Manchester North America Canada Montreal Toronto Vancouver United States Apple HQ in Cupertino Arlington , TX Atlanta Austin Boston Chicago Dallas Denver Fort Worth Houston Las Vegas Long Beach Los Angeles Memphis Miami New Orleans New York Oakland Philadelphia Phoenix Portland Sacramento San Francisco San Jose Seattle Bellevue , WA Everett , WA Kent , WA Tacoma , WA The initial 11 cities at the time of iOS 6 announcement ( June , 2012 ) were identified by <URL> .
If there are n't many photos , the easiest way to do it is simply delete the photos on the phone . Unfortunately , this means selecting each photo individually as there is no ' select all ' option . To avoid individually selecting photos on the iPhone , you 'll want to use the ' delete ' option when prompted at the end of importing . Because iPhoto only deletes the photos that were imported at that time , you wo n't be able to do this with your ' normal ' iPhoto library . To get around this , simply create another ( throw away ) iPhoto library to import the photos . Select ' delete ' when prompted at the end of the import to delete the photos from the iPhone . Then you can delete this throw away library on your Mac . To create a new iPhoto library , hold down the Option ⌥ key when launching iPhoto . This will display a window asking which library you would like to open or create a new library .
No , you ca n't do that . Apple only allows users to update to the latest software , as it fights version fragmentation . I recommend just updating to iOS 8.4.1 . For the most part , whatever bugs existed in iOS 8 are fixed by now . You could also just wait until iOS 9 comes out in a couple of weeks , bug fixes and performance enhancements will be a major part of iOS 9 . This all is an effect of " code signing " where you need Apple to sign the version of code at the moment it gets installed . Since <URL> , you would need to jailbreak or bypass that entire process . Unless you 're into the details of Jailbreaking you can stay at iOS 6 or upgrade to the versions Apple supports/signs . I strongly recommend against jailbreaking , though .
It sounds like you 've already discovered that you can <URL> each <URL> sub-account individually to iCloud . Having done that , you can now add the second account to your iPad as a secondary iCloud account by going to . You can also add secondary iCloud accounts in OS X by going to . This way you do n't have to switch users in OS X to access the second iCloud account 's mail . You can migrate remaining MobileMe Family Members by going to <URL> , instead of having to create a new user in OS X to do the migration . Primary iCloud accounts can use a few features that secondary accounts ca n't : iOS 5 : Photo Stream , Documents &amp; Data , and Backup OS X Lion : Bookmarks , Photo Stream , Find My Mac , and iCloud Storage
According to <URL> iOS 6 does n't make the iPhone 3GS any slower or more difficult to use than it was before , which should be good news to anyone who keeps theirs around as a secondary or backup phone -- indeed , it 's pleasantly surprising how many of the refinements and improvements make their way down to Apple 's oldest-supported piece of iOS hardware . However , that hardware has been surpassed so thoroughly by other iOS and Android handsets at this point that it 's difficult to recommend it as a primary handset . You do n't have much to lose if you upgrade a 3GS to iOS 6 , but there 's a lot more to gain by investing in a newer device .
The Nike + GPS with a foot sensor has two sorts of input and can be more reliable than apps that only rely on GPS . The main sources of foot sensor measurement error are : an odd gait ( which will throw off the foot accelerometer - even when calibrated ) incorrectly calibrated foot sensor your run routine typically covers several uneven stride lengths You might be better with a foot sensor over a pure GPS application , but it 's hard to tell in general . I find the hassle of a foot pod not worth the extra accuracy and use GPS only apps . The best for me is made by <URL> . Their GPS apps are superb and allow detailed control . The only downside is this adds complexity to the UI and you need to know a little to operate the tuning controls properly . ( I chose the <URL> over Cyclemeter or Walkmeter since I like a red color and the shoe icon 's looks - they are all exactly the same engine and you can use all of the settings on any app - you do n't need more than one to get all the route types . ) The developer is very responsive to email support - I was getting errors on my motorcycle settings and they guided me to get the accuracy I wanted since each activity type has some assumptions that can cause errors for some users . Depending on where and how you jog - this app allows you to tune and filter the raw GPS data to your liking . Since you can recreate this one path again and again , you should be able to get things dialed assuming it 's not a problem with jogging in a canyon or under heavy tree / large buildings where interference and multipath effects will render all GPS faulty .
No it does n't trigger to run any process . Because the process is always running . The process for doing these kind of things is <URL> . Click <URL> for more information .
With the native Finder app that comes with OS X is not possible to have tabs . If you really need them you can use some Finder replacement app , like <URL> or <URL> ( both not free ) .
In the Instruments panel ( the icon of the stopwatch ) , click Network Requests on the left . You should then see the timeline on the left , and a list of requests underneath . Click the Type column heading to sort the requests by type and then all the XHR requests will be grouped together . Alternatively , in Safari 's Develop menu , you can select " Use WebKit Web Inspector " to switch back to the old inspector .
You can still download the IPSW files that contain iOS from Apple - <URL> . Just find the correct 5.1.1 file for your model . The problem is installing that IPSW . The trick to make iTunes use a specific IPSW instead of downloading the latest from Apple is to hold option ( shift on Windows ) while clicking the Update or Restore buttons . There is a limit to how long Apple will allow installations of old versions ( without using jailbreak-related hacks ) , so you 'll want to try this ASAP .
This should do the trick : Edit your contact card on your phone ( in the Contacts application ) ; Change the label of your old address to anything you want ; Set the label of your new address to " home "
The recently announced 12 inch sized retina screen <URL> will be the first fanless MacBook to ship once it goes on sale . The MacBook Air ( 11 " &amp; 13 " ) and the MacBook Pro 13 " have one fan , the MacBook Pro 15 " has two .
There wo n't be a problem . I 'm not 100 % sure that upgrading to iOS 8 will be in your best interest , though , because I 've seen lots of reports of people with 4Ss having performance problems on iOS 8 .
Macs do not have Activation Lock . The only Find My iPhone lock that is present on OS X is the force lock from selecting the device in the Find My iPhone device list and clicking Lock . Simply reinstalling OS X ca n't lock a Mac unlike iOS Activation Lock . Note that Find My Mac will register the serial number ( or other hardware identifier ) for the purposes of recording a single Mac and that reinstalling OS X will not remove this identifier from Apple 's servers and may show a " Find My Mac is already in use " message if you attempt to set it up in the future .
If your device is jailbroken , you can grab them from / System/Library/Audio / UISounds
( please contribute to the list with any other apps , and feel free to edit to make the list more accurate -- this is a community wiki answer ) Notation for the list below : With few exceptions , any app falls into on of these categories : it supports System Settings > Dynamic Type and Bold Text ( I mark it as " Dynamic &amp; Bold " below ) OR also supports System Settings > Larger Text ( I mark as " Larger Text " ) OR has its own app-specific font size settings ( " App settings " ) OR has NO font size customization whatsoever ( " No customization " ) For each app , I also specify how its maximum text size compares to standard system apps at maximum Dynamic Type setting if different ( the app font is Smaller or Larger than in system apps ) -- to make it easier for a given app to understand its text size limit , given only few minutes with built-in apps only at Apple outlet . Social networks Facebook : - all UGC ( News Feed , User Timeline , Individual post and comments ) : Dynamic &amp; Bold ( <URL> ) - app interfaces : No customization ; smaller Twitter : - timeline : App settings ( 3 sizes ) ; smaller - settings screen : Dynamic &amp; Bold Google + : No customization ; Much smaller Instagram : No customization ; Much smaller VKontakte ( both iPad - and iPhone apps ) : No customization ; Smaller Email apps Mail : - plaintext emails : Dynamic &amp; Bold - HTML emails : font scales only with Larger Text , but not with Dynamic Type ( ! ) ; but can be much smaller than for plain text emails / than in other apps GMail : No customization ; Smaller ( both for plaintext and HTML emails ) Google Inbox : No customization ; Smaller ( both for plaintext and HTML emails ) Calendar ( by Apple ) : Dynamic &amp; Bold Task managers OmniFocus : - Dynamic &amp; Bold throughout the app - LargerText for leaf-level outline items and Note editing only ; No for outline groups Things : No customization ; smaller Instant Messengers Messages ( iMessage ) : - history of chat with a contact : LargerText - list of contacts on left sidebar : Dynamic &amp; Bold Skype : No customization ; Much Smaller Telegram : - history of chat with a contact : Dynamic Type ( no Bold Text ) ; smaller - list of chats : No customization ; Smaller Web browsers Safari : - regular browsing : No customizaion ; pinch to zoom leads to horizontal scrolling . Smaller . - has a special Reader Mode with App Settings : wide range of sizes , comparable to the range of Larger Text . Works only for article-type web pages , not everywhere . All other browsers tried ( Google Chrome , Opera , Yandex Browser , iCabMobile ) : No Customization ; pinch to zoom leads to horizontal scrolling . Smaller . Office documents Google Drive : No Customization Google Docs : No customization : only document zoom , leads to horizontal scrolling . Smaller Google Sheets : No Customization : only document zoom , leads to horizontal scrolling . Smaller Maps Google Maps : No customization ; Smaller Apple Maps : Dynamic Type only Other built-in apps Settings : Dynamic &amp; Bold Notes : LargerText Reminders : LargerText home screen : No customization built-in keyboard : Bold Text only Other third-party apps Pocket : - list of articles : Dynamic &amp; Bold - aricle body : App settings : wide range of sizes , comparable to the range of Larger Text Google Keep : No Customization . Much Smaller .
Screen A that you refer to is the original ' Apple ' home screen . Your observation is correct . The only time an app will install on screen A is when it is already present ( or moved by you ) and you are updating to a newer version of the app . All other new apps will be installed in the screen closest to what you define as Screen A when possible ( i.e. if Screen B is already full , it will go to screen C and so forth ) . New apps will never get installed into folders ( unless you update the app that is already within a folder )
I use SigleText ( <URL> | <URL> | <URL> ) to share notes between my iPhone and my Mac ; it uses iCloud storage . As far as I know , iTunes Movie Trailer app and Doodle Jump app use iCloud storage to sync your settings between iOS devices . Worth to mention : <URL> . The last version sync your podcasts ( played status , favorites , resume playing location ) thanks to iCloud . The developer said is going to launch an iPad version , so this feature should be very handy in the future .
Just get Tinker Tool for free . It will let you change the fonts and font size for Safari in OS X Mavericks .
If the phone is carrier locked , your best bet is to establish service with Verizon and get it unlocked . It 's probably unlocked though so you might have luck putting any carrier 's valid SIM into the phone . The SIM does n't necessarily even need to be active - just that it once was valid and used . Basically a Verizon sim will get you past the screen , possibly others as well initially .
end question
start question
Why ca n't Finder be closed using command + q ?
You can close all windows of an application ( including Finder ) with ⌘ + ⌥ + w . You can add a quit option to the Finder by running : Considering Finder is responsible for the desktop icons , quitting it rather pointless , but have it !
Not very good solutions , but it works for me . I deleted all profiles , certificates . Then I generated new profiles , certificates and install it .
OpenSSL is deprecated officially . It exists ( for what little time Apple allows going forward ) to not break software that does n't either migrate to Apple 's alternative or bundle SSL internally with the app . See the Apple Developer link for the deprecation announcement : ( the other links are easier reading / more synthesis of the why as to the what ) <URL> <URL> <URL>
To force the usage of the discrete graphics card in your macbook you can uncheck the automatic graphics switching checkbox in the system preferences / energy saver panel As the message states , this does drain the battery faster . However , your mac should not behave as you describe , I suggest taking it to a service desk so apple can take a look at it , or call apple to ask why it is so choppy .
I had this problem . It was caused by the Gmail app . If you have it installed , go to your phones Settings and find the Gmail app in the list . Turn off Sounds and that should fix your problem .
Unless it 's a hacked system , then no , it will not have access since access is only possible via API 's that require granting access .
I frequently reinstall MacPorts ( e.g. , when there 's a new major version of Xcode ) so I keep a file with a list of my essential ports for easy reinstalling . Here 's my list of essential software that does n't come with OS X . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
<URL> : Enable Dictation Commands Before you can tell your Mac what you want it to do , you need to turn on Dictation Commands . When you enable advanced commands , you can also create your own commands by clicking the Add Command ( + ) button . This lets you link a spoken phrase to an app , a menu item , a keyboard shortcut , or an Automator workflow .
You can close all windows of an application ( including Finder ) with ⌘ + ⌥ + w . You can add a quit option to the Finder by running : Considering Finder is responsible for the desktop icons , quitting it rather pointless , but have it !
If you have an external monitor plugged in , it will happen automatically . Otherwise , you can use <URL> .
Maybe the trash folder is not correctly set on your iPhone . Depending on the email-provider , you may have to choose the correct " deleted " folder in your account settings on the iPhone . ( maybe the translations are not literally , i am using a German iPhone ) : Go to " Settings " - > " Mail , contacts ... " , choose your IMAP account , choose " account info " , look at the bottom and choose " advanced " . Here you can choose which folder is your trash folder .
You could also create an Automator workflow with just an empty New Reminders Item action and then run it with . See also <URL> .
The Quit menu item in Finder can be enabled by Onyx , Cocktail , Secrets etc Directly in Terminal with
Try turning off your home WiFi . A kind of interference , maybe ?
This bug is known to the Chrome developers and has been filed under ... <URL> : Dictionary keyboard shortcut does n't work in Lion Basically the problems are timing issues for some websites which take too long to respond to information needed to show the dictionary . This is what resek@chromium.org says : There 's likely not much that we can do here . We have to block the UI thread to implement this feature , which is bad and so that 's done on a timeout . If the web page takes too long to respond for the information we need to display the popup , we give up and unblock the UI . If we did n't do this , Chrome would look like it 's hung , waiting on the web page to respond . We collect timing information about this , and most pages succeed well below the timeout , but there 's also some class of pages that do not respond in time ( more than 1500ms , which is what starts to be perceived as sluggish/hung ) .
UPDATE : The problem was due to broken filesystem permissions which were preventing the system from applying the update . Once the permissions have been fixed using Disk Utility , the update took place like a sweet .
This is a compatibility issue between Apple and Microsoft . There 's not much you can do about that except using Outlook 2011 for Mac can help you out in this case . As it is specific Microsoft software for Mac , you do n't have all the limitations you have using the default ( native ) Mac Mail.app . SideNote : A similar thing between Apple and Microsoft is when you flag an e-mail , it will be flagged as Outlook 2003 , which is very pointless if your Exchange is 2007 or up .
I 'm not sure that this is quite the solution that you 're looking for , but the utility <URL> does make sure that windows return to a set position when connecting an external display . I have n't had a chance to use it myself , but since purchasing a new external display , I must say it 's tempted me . You might also check out this related <URL> , which has more suggestions . A quick search pulled up this <URL> , which might also solve your question by disabling the sleep signal sent when you close the lid ... Someone with stronger terminal-fu than myself might know some direct CLI commands to do this directly .
The official answer is No . As of iOS 4 , there is a simple workaround , however . You can just add a podcast to a playlist and speak " Play playlist PlaylistName " .
This is because of how you can program the pasteboard on Mac OS X. Text editors expect the pasteboard to contain , well , text data . There are however several kinds of text : there 's plain text , there 's formatted ( RTF ) text , there 's formatted text with embedded documents ( RTFD ) , there 's HTML-formatted text , and a bunch of others . When you copy something , the application tells the pasteboard how this data can be represented . There are usually several suitable representations : for instance , copying your question exports data in the pasteboard that can be represented as a web archive , RTF data , and plain text in three different encodings . Plenty of types that applications are likely to support . However , when you copy a mail from Mail , it exports only as two types of data : plain UTF-8 text and a RTFD document . Cocoa tries to paste as an RTFD document because it likes them better , but applications say " no no , I ca n't do that " ; they usually support getting text from RTF , but not from RTFD since RTFD usually has embedded resources such as images , and you end up pasting nothing because the apps do n't bother to look for the plain text data . TextEdit , on its side , is able to edit RTFD documents , so it has no problem pasting the data .
end question
start question
Best keyboard mapping approach to make a Mac work like Ubuntu ?
Ok , what you want to do is remap your modifiers : Go to System Preferences and select Modifier Keys : Then swap Cmd and Control . note : in the shot they are not swapped For reference , I do this with an external Razer Blackwidow for Windows ( I want it to be like my Mac keyboard because I 've been using Mac keyboards for 10 years ) .
<URL> ( <URL> ) Free Allows you to make completely free phone calls using your Google Voice account . There are ads , but hey , it 's free ! I 've had no trouble with it at all and I highly recommend it .
The iMate was the only converter available on the market . If you do get an iMate , the only thing it will work with these days are keyboards and mice . It internally converts ADB keyboard and mice commands to USB keyboard and mice commands , so it will just make your ADB mouse and keyboard look like a USB mouse and keyboard to the computer , no drivers required . In ~ 2001 there was a driver for the iMate that would actually configure it as an ADB bus the computer could see , that way anything with real ADB drivers could use it just like a builtin port . That driver has not been updated in years , and Apple dropped all ADB support from OS X , so at this point USB emulation is the only thing it does . Not that there were many ( any ? ) interesting ADB devices that were supported under Mac OS X anyway .
In mirroring mode , both screens need to use the same resolution . The external display probably ca n't support the huge 2880x1800 , so it 's lowering yours to match . In System Preferences > Displays > Arrangement tab , uncheck the mirroring option . Then you should see two separate preferences windows , allowing you to set different resolutions for each display . Note -- the Arrangement tab is only visible when you have an external display connected . <URL>
Automator on Mac is certainly one of the most underused apps . Using it does n't require a long time of learning . All you have to do is to understand the way it works . You 'll find on this tutorial the answers to your questions : <URL> By the way , in case you 'd like to get the most out of your Mac , check this out also : <URL> Let me know if you managed to create your firt Automator workflow ;)
Answering my own question from the new iPad at the Apple Store . Definitively yes .
rEFIt is the best way to allow dual-booting on a Mac . I use it to boot Ubuntu from a partition on my external drive , and it works perfectly . Be sure to back up your hard drive before proceeding . Install rEFIt and make sure it is working ( you should get a boot chooser on startup ) Use Bootcamp or Disk Utility to create a partition at the end of the disc . Do n't worry about what format , just make it the size you want for Ubuntu and your swap partition . If you you are using OS X Lion which comes with Bootcamp 4.0 you will need to use the Disk Utility . Boot Camp 4.0 will only allow you to resize if you provide a Windows 7 installation disk . Boot the Ubuntu desktop CD , and select " Try Ubuntu . Start the partition editor ( gparted ) under System - > Adminstration . Use gparted to delete the partition you just made in OS X . It should be the last partition on the disc and follows after the HFS + partition ( OS X ) . Deleting it will leave an area called unallocated . This is free space , and exactly what you want . Use gparted to manually partition the space on your drive for Ubuntu . First create a SWAP area of about 1GB . Then the rest of the unallocated area format as EXT4 . Apply changes and take note the label of the EXT4 partition such as / dev/sda3 . Start the Ubuntu Installer from the desktop icon . When prompted , choose to manually partition . Select the EXT4 partition and click change . Select to use the space as EXT4 and root ( / ) as the mount point . You will also want to check the box to format the partition . Reboot when done with the install , and in the rEFIt menu , choose the partition tool . It will attempt to sync the partition tables on your disk . Then SHUTDOWN the computer ( not reboot ) , and start it again . You should be able to boot to Ubuntu now . If it seems to freeze on the tux logo , completely shutdown again and try one more time . This is a summary of a process described by the detailed how-to process here : <URL>
From a few minutes of searching , it looks like Ubuntu 11.04 would be a good fit and match most of your requests , and what you were looking to use as well . 64bit would be needed to reach more than 4GB of RAM . And there is a 64 bit version , although ( to me ) confusingly named AMD64 . <URL> . There are also Magic Trackpad drivers available , and a good writeup available on the <URL> . I also found a good site <URL> . This should be rather similar to your instal . Finally , in most cases , choosing the right Linux distro is also a feel and how you like the install . But in accordance with your list of support , it looks like Ubuntu will cover this .
This answer explains things for a Windows-based server , but it should work fine for Ubuntu . In Terminal , type the following command : Now , as long as you have a connection to your computer 's shared drive , you should be able to see it in Time Machine . To connect to that shared drive : Finder > Go > Connect to Server . Type in the IP address or host name of the server . You may be prompted to log in . Configure Time Machine to use the drive , and try creating a backup . Time Machine will try to create a " sparse bundle " on the drive , and will fail . Open Console and check . You will see the name of the file Time Machine was trying to create . The name of the file will be something like You will need to create a sparse bundle with this name and put it on the hard drive manually before the backups will work . To do this , open Disk Utility . Click New Image > Set image format as " sparse bundle disk image " > Set partition map to " no partition map " > Set the size as the maximum size you are willing to allot to Time Machine . Do n't modify anything else . Though the file on the hard drive will need to begin with a period , you will not be able to do this right away through Disk Utility , so just call it whatever you want right now . You can rename the file so that it has a period before its name from Terminal on OS X or Ubuntu . Your final name should be like . If everything is done right , you should now be able to use Time Machine with an Ubuntu Server . Note : This answer was copied from <URL> and has been formatted for AskDifferent . I 've used this method myself , albeit on a Windows shared drive .
For broadcasting the video , you can use <URL> . It will allow for live interaction during the broadcast over chat . <URL> .
Would the Windows Latin American layout mentioned in this article meet your needs ? <URL>
Zenmap can Absolutely provide NetBIOS names ( the names you are referring to ) . Furthermore , you can tweak the nMap scan to only scan for up IP addresses , and NetBIOS details , which should really significantly reduce the scan duration . Furthermore , it should , if you are willing to fall back to the terminal , be possible to make it update pretty rapidly , maybe every ~ 30 seconds . For example , with the Zenmap command of : Note : I use the IP prefix . in your case , this will likely be The is the netmask . In this case , it causes nMap to scan everything from - . To use , you just paste the line above into the " Command " entry box in Zenmap Here is a scan of my LAN : As you can see , it has resolved the information for all computers on my LAN that are reporting NetBIOS information . It also did all the above in ~ 9.4 seconds . I did this on my windows computer because my mac ( Apparently appropriately named iCrap , as you can see in the scan results ) is freaking out at the moment , and I can not restart it because I have some big file transfers in process . Nmap is platform agnostic , so the platform on which you do this scan should not matter . I did test this on the mac from the command line only , and it worked fine there too ( well , it did trip the flood protection on my managed switch , but that 's another issue ) . I 've edited the MAC address out from the scan . I can add more information on how to set this up to scan continuously from the command line , if you would like . You can see more information on the script that I am using to query NetBIOS information <URL> . The nmap <URL> is also very useful , for understanding what is going on .
To answer your question as stated : Yes , MAC OS X has something similar to SELinux providing <URL> security polices and roles . As you have discovered it 's called MAC and I believe it 's based on the TrustedBSD implementation of the same name . To answer your implicit question : No . MAC should not interfere with the ability to serve documents out of your home directory . Most likely either your permissions or your virtual host configuration is incorrect . If I remember correctly the logs should be in or . Please edit your question to contain the relevant parts of your virtual host configuration and logs .
TotalTerminal might be a better option . TotalTerminal has a visor mode that allows it to stay on top of all the other windows . You can choose to place it anywhere on the desktop , of course , and choose to have it slide out from one of those positions when you use CTRL - ~ key combo or anything else you 've set up . Plus it 's free .
You can change the shortcuts from System Preferences : They can also be changed with defaults . The shortcut format is described in the <URL> article .
Newstand content is simply an iOS Application that makes use of the <URL> , so you might start with <URL> and a one year membership to the <URL> . When you enroll in the latter , you will learn what things can be discussed and asked about publicly and which parts of the program are covered by an Non-Disclosure Agreement ( NDA ) . You do n't need the paid membership to download Xcode and start learning and crafting your first Newsstand app , but you do get access to many training videos , a <URL> on NDA topics . The ability to sign and install apps you develop on some test devices to work on development before they are ready for sale on the App Store is also critical for proper QA . There are also many other paid options to developer Newsstand apps , but I would start with free and training like the dedicated page for developers to learn Newstand : <URL>
OK , as it turns out the test user can only be used from within the sandbox environment , which makes certain sense . This is described <URL> .
turns out that <URL> works just fine with photoshop . . it 's a bit more technical/harder to set up than the other two . . but based on the people i 've spoken with . . it 's well worth the trouble
You may be able to make use of keyboard combinations by using the ALT or possibly the Windows Key . Example to Copy : Use ALT C or Windows Key C.
You have to hit the Left COMMAND key once and the mouse switches to finder and other apps . If you click inside of virtualbox it activates the virtual machine which in this case is ubuntu . ( This assumes that you are running in the default mode which captures on click ) . It 's confusing because it 's displayed with a left arrow , but what they really mean is the left COMMAND key . ( The one that looks like it has a four leaf clover on it ) . The key looks like this : ⌘ It 's also known as the Apple key . This key is on either side of the space bar . Each works the same . So for example if you wanted to print a document in Windows you could use the keyboard shortcut CONTROL + " P " ( Press the control key , continue to hold it while pressing the " P " key ) , on a Mac they use a different key - it 's the COMMAND Key not the CONTROL key so you need to press ⌘ and the letter " P " to print . So if you know several keyboard shortcuts for Microsoft Windows , just try them on the Mac but instead of using the CONTROL key substitute the COMMAND key . The CONTROL key , SHIFT key , OPTION key , and COMMAND key ( or Apple key as some like to call it ) , are all what 's called modifier keys . You press them to modify the function of other keys on your computer . However in Virtual Box they have mapped the left one , to the left of the spacebar to allow you to leave the virtual host 's screen and return to Apple 's Finder or any other program that 's currently running .
end question
start question
Does a Macbook Pro have 1 or 2 Hard Disk Controllers ?
It has two and yes , you can make the controller that connects to the SuperDrive spot the primary controller and run your MacBook Pro exclusively off a drive attached to this controller . I 'm writing this from a MacBook Pro that has an SSD installed into the SuperDrive spot using an OWC DataDoubler bracket . This is the primary drive in my machine and the mechanical drive has come and gone from the machine without any issues . The machine still booted , ran from my SSD in the SuperDrive spot .
Since you must boot Windows 7 from the internal SSD , and since you also want to run Mac OS X from the same volume , I recommend that you concentrate on cleaning out your existing Mac OS X system and freeing up as much disk space as possible . You should research on how to make the smallest Windows installation possible , so you can create the smallest BootCamp partition possible . From what I can see , you could do with as little as 12GB if you are meticulous . For instance , once Windows is installed , you can permanently disable and reduce or limit the size of , and this will save you many GB . I would also look into the differences between the size of the installation in Windows 7 32-bit versus 64-bit , and see if Windows 7 Ultimate takes up a great deal more space than Windows 7 Professional or Windows 7 Home Premium ( I suspect it does ) . You will want to refrain from installing any features of Windows that you decide you do n't need , and you will want to make sure that you do n't install any Windows applications that you do n't absolutely need . Here are some links to discussions I found . I can not vouch for any of these methods . <URL> at Tom 's Hardware <URL> at Microsoft TechNet There is a utility for reducing the size of a Windows installation before you actually install it . It is called <URL> . It is not exactly kosher and has its detractors . I have no personal experience with it . To use it , you need a working Windows system to configure a special custom installer DVD that vLite helps you create . <URL> , a discussion of the benefits of vLite and how many GB you can save . Regardless , you are going to have to wipe the internal drive on your MacBook Air and try different partitioning schemes , so you must have yet another a large external hard drive for making backups of the system you already have . Use <URL> or <URL> . On the Mac side , there is a lot you can do to reduce the size of your Mac OS X partition by removing components of Lion that you do not need . Make a complete backup disk image first before you start deleting things ! Similarly , it is possible to permanently delete the Mac OS X file , which will save you the same amount of disk space as the amount of RAM that you have . <URL> <URL> utility for controlling the sleepimage file Delete the contents of , which could be several GB , and when you restart your Mac , Lion will prompt you to download only the drivers for the printers you actually use . You should completely remove any applications in iLife that you do n't use , including all their support files in the / Library / folder . iDVD , GarageBand and iPhoto have many GB of support files , themes , templates , and audio files , and if you do n't use any one of those programs , you can clean out that disk space . Utilities such as <URL> can remove more than 1GB from your Mac OS X installation by removing all the files for languages ( Spanish , French , German , etc. ) that you will not use . Use <URL> or <URL> to examine your Mac OS X installation and look for user documents that you feel safe in archiving and removing , or deleting . There is an analogous freeware tool for Windows called <URL> .
This can even be done in Time Machine : Choose the 5 TB HDD as only Time Machine backup drive ( OK , my disks are smaller ) : <URL> Then exclude your internal drive by adding it to the excluded items - the backup drive is excluded automatically : <URL> The final result : You get a folder Backups.backupdb with one folder vm ( the name of my Mac ) containing folders ( with date names representing the backup date ) and each with two folders representing the two drives ( Data1 and Encrypted ) . I added and modified files successively on both volumes and initiated a backup after each step . <URL> Needless to say : it 's recommended to backup your main drive/system drive also !
I happen to use a MBP 15 " early 2011 and it has a SATA 3 ( 6.0 Gbit/s ) interface .
Both <URL> and <URL> can clone and omit files or directories from the clone .
Your instincts are correct . If a file is being modified when the program reads it , you will end up with a copy of it in a transient state ( or perhaps some programs like iPhoto that have a database that tracks files - the structure might not be correct to run with after a restore . ) This is why Time Machine makes two passes - it copies everything and then runs a second copy to pick up any files that were in the process of being modified during the first pass . Of course , a file under constant change might not get saved in either case , but it reduces the odds of a critically vital file that does n't get changed often will be caught in a delicate moment . To be safe , you want to boot to another OS ( the recovery HD or an external drive ) to run imaging if you need to ensure a perfect copy and all files being closed and flushed properly to storage .
It is safe to operate the HDD this way . There are many servers that use HDDs vertically . Your main concern , while operating this way , would be the slightly worse cooling . The Twelvesouth guys are saying that they deliver better cooling , but they are comparing it to a closed and put on the table notebook . My experience shows that the best way to keep the notebook cool is to keep the lid open . If I want to use only my external monitor , I close it , wake it with the external keyboard/mouse and then reopen the lid ( only the external monitor works and the cooling is best ) . Note that if you 're not doing CPU/GPU heavy things ( gaming , transcoding movies ) , you 'll be ok .
It ca n't hurt to repair permissions on your actual disk , but it is quite unnecessary , because " Macintosh HD " contains the actual operating system , so the stuff that you want to repair .
Both hard links and symbolic links link a path to a destination , however there is a substantial difference you should be aware of : Hard links link a path to a file . This means that if you rename/move the destination file , the hard link follows . Symbolic links link a path to a path . This means if you rename/move the destination file , the link is broken . However , later replacing the file with a different one will make the link work again . Links of both types are made with the ln tool . Hard links are made without any options , whereas symlinks are made with the option . For more information on constructing the command , see : <URL>
The recently announced 12 inch sized retina screen <URL> will be the first fanless MacBook to ship once it goes on sale . The MacBook Air ( 11 " &amp; 13 " ) and the MacBook Pro 13 " have one fan , the MacBook Pro 15 " has two .
from <URL> So you might be best contacting them .
You should get a mini DisplayPort to VGA adapter ( sometimes referred to as a Thunderbolt to VGA adapter , but it 's the same thing ) . Apple <URL> , but they can be had elsewhere for less , including at my personal favourite , <URL> . You could do HDMI to VGA , but it would require a ( typically bulky ) active adapter . There are some HDMI to VGA adapters that are n't active , but they rely on graphics card support that Macs do n't have . The DisplayPort to VGA adapters are technically active adapters , but for whatever reason they seem to be much more compact than HDMI to VGA ones . There are USB based display adapters , and some of them have VGA output , but I 'd only recommend them for situations where other outputs are n't available . They 're essentially a USB connected graphics card , which means that performance is lacking , and it takes up CPU and memory resources that the built-in outputs do n't . Useful for some situations , but in your case I 'd stay away .
Battery level indications are notoriously unreliable in most devices . That 's why it 's known as the indicator rather than the gauge , as the latter implies accuracy ( same goes for car fuel tanks , which is why when there is less than approximately 30 miles of fuel left , my car then stops telling me the level and just says " Refuel !! " ) . It 's very common to note unusual behaviour such as you describe , and other similar behaviour like the first 50 % being used slower than the last 50 % , etc. . In an attempt to improve the situation , Apple did something a little different with how the battery indicator value is commonly generated in iOS . But before I mention that , it 's worth showing how a lot of other manufacturers do it ( and indeed how Apple does it on OSX hardware still ) . The normal method is to show 100 % full when the battery stops charging . This is a physical measure , rather than a logical one , and relies on taking voltage/ampage readings and whether they have stopped increasing or reached expected levels , etc. . On a Macbook , the behaviour shown by @Robuust ' answer is because of this method of charging ; because it 's not good to keep topping up the battery to absolutely full when it has only lost a percent or so - it 's better to use a bit more before starting to charge again . OSX wo n't bother charging a battery that was at 100 % until it has dropped sufficiently to make charging it back up worth it without causing potential battery health issues . As such , if you unplug to walk to another room and drop from 100 % to 98 % , it will determine that it 's not worth the potential shortening of a batteries long term life just to give you a 2 % recharge . It will wait until a lower indication is reached , say 94 % , and then when it drops below this threshold start to charge again . This causes ( or used to cause ) endless user confusion ; Why does n't my battery get to 100 % ?!?! My battery is faulty ... So in iOS , they switched to a different method of reporting battery life . The genuine 100 % charge state is still monitored in the same way , but the way it is reported to the user is different . The battery will show as full when in reality it 's only , for example , say 95 % full ( I do n't know the exacts , which probably changes model to model anyway ) . At this point you can safely unplug and use the device ( there is no need to charge a modern battery all the way to prevent memory damage ) although it might not be fully charged regardless of what it says . If you leave it plugged in however , it continues to charge . Physically as the battery reaches 100 % charge , logically that is essentially going over the 100 % level shown to the user , say to 105 % ( although this is n't shown , clearly ) . At the point that it reaches this genuine full mark it then runs on battery until the value is lowered back to 95 % physical/100 % logical . Then it charges up . It will use the top 5 % or so of genuine physical battery charge to constantly run the battery through a small charge/discharge cycle , and display 100 % at all times to the user , regardless of where it is in the cycle . Actual physical battery capacity : Logical user reported charge : Logical user accessible charge : Keeping a battery active in this way is better for its health than charging it to full and keeping in charged to full . Batteries are designed to be used , which is why laptop batteries on machines that commonly stay plugged in often fail with relatively little use - you should use the battery regularly to keep it healthy . A net result of the above operation is that sometimes when your phone is showing 100 % it will drop to 99 relatively quickly , because it was at that point in the cycle where it had been running on battery and was about to start charging again anyway . Other times when you unplug , it has just finished charging to its genuine full charge , and therefore you get all the extra time it takes to discharge down from its logical 105 % down to 99 % , so it will show at 100 % for ages before starting to drop more consistently . The same happens at the bottom of the battery too , when it hits 0 % , it does n't just run out of juice and die , it knows it has enough power reserved to perform a clean shutdown , and hold enough stuff like the date/time etc. , or to be able to flash you an I need power ! icon when you try to turn it back on . Finally , as to why you can seemingly recover charge after a reboot , it seems reasonable to assume that this is just an artifact of the process used to provide the user with a logical battery indication , rather than the real thing . My physics is n't brilliant , but I believe that it 's harder to record what the static voltage of a battery is when it 's being used ( as it 's constantly draining ) , and during bootup it 's probably actually using more power than when it 's just sitting in your pocket and so on . Tie in this with some algorithm that is adjusting for the general age and health of the battery anyway ( If a battery has lost 20 % of its capacity over the course of a cou
It actually does n't matter . If you install Lion you can use the Time Machine backup as the source for restoring all data through Migration Assistant . It works exactly the same as if you put your old machine into target disk mode and use it as a drive for Migration Assistant . ( I was really surprised to find this out a couple of days ago when shuffling hard drives - 3 bad SSDs in a row , long story - and I was not allowed to select Time Machine to restore from because it was too large for the 240GB SSD , after using a 750GB spinning disk for a while - even though I had carefully excluded enough data to be sure it would fit . Then when Migration Assistant came up it allowed me to use the Time Machine drive to restore all the data I wanted anyway - all 90GB of it . All 's well now , and this unexpected feature of Time Machine saved me some time . )
I called Apple to find out , and they confirmed that it is not user-upgradeable : the tech explained that they used the same process they used for the MacBook Air to save space : there are no sticks of RAM , and the RAM has been soldered directly onto the main board . As <URL> , this is now confirmed <URL> before purchase : Please note that the memory is built into the computer , so if you think you may need more memory in the future , it is important to upgrade at the time of purchase . So if you were thinking you might want the 16GB RAM in the future , you 'd want to choose it when you order the MacBook Pro , as you wo n't be able to upgrade later .
It is possible , although not from Apple themselves . A company called OWC seem to specialise in SSD upgrades for macbook 's and have upgrades for your model <URL> These particular upgrades offer greater speed and capacity to some of the stock apple SSD 's from 2011 .
I have heard good things about the <URL> . It provides a mounting bracket for whatever hard drive or SSD you want to put in there . <URL> shows how to install it in a Mid-2010 MBP , which is close in design to the Unibody MacBook you have . Instructions according to the guy in the video : Remove the bottom panel Disconnect and remove the Wi-Fi/Bluetooth antenna . Disconnect optical drive and put the connector onto the Optibay Put your hard drive into the optibay Follow the steps in reverse to reassemble your computer . The dangerous parts are when you pop up the delicate connectors with , say , an iPod opening tool . So the Wi-Fi may not work afterwards , and you would be on your own since Apple does n't support modifications . But overall , it is n't so bad . It looks like an easy fix .
Having a second hard drive will certainly decrease battery life by a noticeable amount . Behind the CPU and LCD , the hard drive is the largest drain on battery . A word of caution : RAID 0 is almost never a good idea , unless you 'll be doing backups constantly and do n't mind being totally down if a drive fails . You 'll get better performance from an SSD and you 'll be able to keep your optical drive .
See <URL> for pricing information in various countries . In your case ( Italy ) it 's 130 or 180 $ depending on screen size .
160 degrees Fahrenheit , if it is CPU temperature , is normal for MBP . MBPs are designed to run pretty hot , with the aluminum case as the main heatsink the casing gets uncomfortably hot sometimes . If you want to remedy the problem : use a laptop stand ( I use Belkin Cushtops , they are really comfortable ) , put your laptop on steady , heat-transducing surface ( human skin , blankets or soft chairs are bad -- wooden/plastic/metallic tables are good ) , open up the casing and clean the dust ( can make it ~ 10 degrees Celcius cooler ) or , use less video - or CPU-intensive application =)
end question
start question
Can I move " Pages " of apps in iOS 5 ?
You can move it by pages in the iTunes interface but ( so far as I know ) not on the iPad itself . Connect to your computer open iTunes select the iPad in the left column select the apps tab along the top At this point at the upper right is a view of the apps on the iPad . You can drag and drop apps to move them around . You can grab a page and drag it up and down the list to rearrange the pages .
New tweets in Twitter ca n't be added to the notification centre , thankfully . It will only notify you in the notification centre if your mentioned or receive a direct message . The settings for the Twitter notifications can be found in - > Also make sure you have your Twitter set up correctly under - > after installing the Twitter app .
There is and , in fact , I stumbled upon this the other day . Both my wife and I rejoiced ! To view the time of your texts , simply swipe your finger gently to the left . While you hold down your finger , your texts will shift to the left , and time stamps will be revealed on the right .
Devices not supported by iOS 5 : iPhone ( original ) iPhone 3G iPod Touch first generation iPod Touch second generation AppleTV Source : <URL> . " iOS 5 is compatible with : iPhone 3GS , iPhone 4 , iPhone 4S , iPod Touch 3rd generation , iPod Touch 4th generation , iPad , iPad 2 . "
Your custom words spelling are stored in ~ / Library/Spelling / just copy the and paste in Finder Go to Folder window . Then open this file file
Nope , there is no way to do it . I think that 's really stupid . Though I remember being able to do that in iBooks when it was first released , before iOS had a built in dictionary .
In essence , you want both objects on both slides , overlapping , then animate the opacity between the two with Magic Move . This recreates a Magic Move pretty accurately . See <URL>
Yes - delete any iOS apps from iTunes and as long as you are not syncing apps to that computer , they wo n't transfer back . Your data will still be backed up , but not the apps themselves .
Nowhere , unfortunately , because the information is n't reported anywhere . Individual publishers sometimes announce their sales and/or number of purchases , but it 's uncommon and there 's no reporting at all from the majority of the most successful publishers .
No , Safari does not have a feature like the one you 're describing . However , Chrome for iOS has this functionality by default .
Here are the steps I took to Find and Replace a word with a word ( s ) in Pages app for iPad : Tap in the toolbar and tap Find in the popover . When the search field appears at the bottom of the screen , type in the word ( s ) you 're searching for . The results are immediately highlighted in the document . Use the forward and back arrows to move through the document to see the results in context . To replace the found term , tap ( gear ) to the left of the search field . In the popover , you can refine your search by searching for matching cases or whole words only . Or , simply tap Find and Replace and a second text field appears to the right of the search field . Type in the replacement word and tap Replace . Pages for iPad finds the first instance of the word and replaces it . Tap the forward and back arrows to find each instance and manually replace it by tapping the Replace button . To automatically find and replace all instances of the word , tap and hold the Replace button until Replace All appears in the popover . Tap it and all the found words are automatically replaced . For a graphical representation of the steps mentioned above , check out this article which I found useful : <URL> Source : my.safaribooksonline.com
Sure you can . On iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 plus in landscape you have these controls . I have marked with red : <URL> But if you want in portrait mode or you have iPhone earlier than 6 , do steps : Long press on text until it appears that magnifying glass and while pressing drag cursor to the beginning of subject and it will move . This works on landscape and portrait
I believe there is no way for a end-user to do this . All iOS apps will have Application_Home / Documents , Application_Home / Library , Application_Cache folders . All the files stored in these folders should be managed by application itself . So , it 's true that you ca n't do this without jail breaking .
At the moment , you ca n't really do this . Although I suspect that Apple are looking to integrate iOS and Mac OSX in the future so that this sort of thing can be done ( purely speculation ) . GarageBand on the Mac is different to the iPad version ( it 's more comprehensive ) and it has indeed been out on the Mac for far longer than on the iPad . It is possible to run iOS apps in the iPhone Simulator that comes with Xcode . However , it 's not as simple as downloading from the AppStore . You 'd have to get the source code for the app , compile it in Xcode and run in the simulator . Most apps being closed source , this wont be possible !
I think you might be talking about the Notification Center . Does it look like the pictures in this <URL> page ? If so , go to Settings - > Notifications - > Calendar , and turn off ' Notification Centre ' .
Yes , without a doubt . Unlike with the new ability to update only changes to the OS with iOS 5 delta updates , downgrading your OS will require you to restore the phone . Which essentially reformats the drive .
Yes , you do . They are two entirely separate apps for two radically different devices .
Go to Mail - > Preferences - > Viewing and check ( under View conversations : at the bottom ) . This will show " related messages " , which ( as far as I can tell ) means messages that you send in the same conversation .
It sounds like you 've already discovered that you can <URL> each <URL> sub-account individually to iCloud . Having done that , you can now add the second account to your iPad as a secondary iCloud account by going to . You can also add secondary iCloud accounts in OS X by going to . This way you do n't have to switch users in OS X to access the second iCloud account 's mail . You can migrate remaining MobileMe Family Members by going to <URL> , instead of having to create a new user in OS X to do the migration . Primary iCloud accounts can use a few features that secondary accounts ca n't : iOS 5 : Photo Stream , Documents &amp; Data , and Backup OS X Lion : Bookmarks , Photo Stream , Find My Mac , and iCloud Storage
Cell network search : when in presence of two or more network antennae , probably it register which one is better where ( so it has to know where ) , in order to automatically connect to it the next time you '' ll be in the same place . Diagnostics &amp; Usage : possibly related to the one above , about battery life draining with different antennae Traffic : I guess this one is to collect data for a yet to be announced product ( see the Apple <URL> regarding this .
end question
start question
What OS X and iOS software combination tracks finances ?
I finally found the solution to the Quicken on Mac problem . I downloaded Oracle Virtual Box , a free tool that allows me to run Windows on my Mac . ( Windows becomes a separate running application , that you can tab to ) . Then I installed Quicken . The original one and only ! Note , to do this approach , you need to have a Windows IOS file ( ie an installation CD )
This wo n't help with graphs , but for making molecular diagrams I highly recommend the open source <URL> , which is free for Windows , Mac , and Linux . It lets you create all sorts of molecules and export them as Java applets , images , or animations .
To connect to a Proxy Server ( which is what you 're trying to do ) you need no special Programm just tell your System to send all the Traffic over the Proxy . You can do this inside of your Mac 's System Preferences under Network If you need more Information on how i suggest you to read the Official Apple Support Document : <URL>
According to <URL> , the iMac5 ,1 was released in 2006 , and is thus not on the <URL> . Whether Mavericks can be hacked to run on your machine is a different question .
What would happen if I were to force the Intel drivers for the Linux kernel into Mac OS X ? Would it work ? Would there be severe instability or data loss ? Is it even possible ? At best ? 100 % nothing . At worst ? Crash your whole system and make it unusable or even unbootable . While Mac OS X and Linux are both different " flavors " of Unix , you ca n't just grab parts from one OS and just install it into the other OS and expect them to work . That said , if there is source code for the driver somewhere , you could potentially compile them for Mac OS X using the Xcode suite of development tools . But that is one big if . The reality is compiling Linux application source code on a Mac OS X system from a Linux system is a crapshoot . Sometimes it works and you get to use nice Linux tools on a Mac OS X system . But sometimes it just wo n't work . And that is at the application level . On the driver level it 's even less plausible or doable ; and even if it was doable it would be difficult to do that at best . That said , <URL> . But note that the versions of Mac OS X referred to are Mac OS X 10.4 and 10.5 ; nothing more modern .
Welcome , Martijn . I always recommend Apple 's videos : <URL> For now I would also recommend you not worry about terminal/UNIX . Learn to use the Mac OS using the GUI at first , getting used to how it behaves and in which ways it might be different from the Windows operating systems you are used to . Good luck ! EDIT : Also , it does n't really matter where things " should " go on a Mac . You can put applications on the desktop , documents in Applications , etc , etc. . Although I do n't recommend that . There is a Documents folder for documents and an Applications folder for apps . Treat the Library and System folders with care ( IE -- do not go into them or manipulate them until/unless you know what they are , what 's inside and what the effect of your actions will be ) and you will be fine . Backups are also your best friend .
In general all programs call on the operating system to do things . These are the API - application programming interface . Lion changes some API , adds new ones , and deletes old ones . The biggest problem is when a program needs an API that is now gone . The second issue is when things change . Lastly , when a new feature like Mission Control is introduced , perhaps the older program is n't expecting it 's windows to be moved around in that manner . The assumptions made by a developer can turn out to no longer be true which will cause little or big glitches . Also - programs that do n't use API but just react to things as they are can break when those things move . For example - if a program assumed ~ / Library is visible - then it would clearly break when running on a clean version of Lion . Device drivers change - that can cause errors . Lastly , entire compatibility layers like Rosetta are dropped .
Save a script like this as and make it executable with . You can then add a LogoutHook key to with . It can be deleted with . You can run a script at login by adding a LoginHook key or by using launchd . See also these questions about running scripts on <URL> and <URL> and <URL> .
<URL> iOS ( Push ) Email using the IMAP protocol Push is not default . You have to set it up <URL> . bi-directional contacts sync ( Exchange supported ) If you do not sync contacts using the exchange protocol , you only sync via iTunes . bi-directional calendars sync I do n't have good experiences with the bi-directional sync using the iOS calendar app . Luckily , there are plenty of third-party apps available which offer a tight integration of Google Calender . <URL> has been quite an enhancement to my Google experience . OSX iCal , Address Book and Mail allow to integrate sync with Google 's services in Preferences & #x 2192 ; Accounts . Google Services on other platforms Google 's Services are more widely available than anything else I know . It allows to keep contacts/calendars/email in sync on OSX , iOS , Android and Linux . In Ubuntu I use Google 's Services in Thunderbird and Google Calendar/Contacts extensions .
The domain names are from to . These domains are for downloading from the App Store or the iTunes Store .
IMO , if you have a UNIX background with previous experience with Emacs , it might make sense to " carry it forward " onto OS X . As a new text editor , I personally do n't think it makes sense . Yes , it is a fully capable text editor and it can do everything , but as you 've said , it does not integrate well into the OS , which for me is a major hurdle . I use vim on OS X because its my editor of choice on Linux ( where I do much of the work that earns me money ) , however with that said , I 've started learning and using BBEdit .
I have been thinking the same since I learned about Nvelo Dataplex and recently I stumbled upon <URL> It looks like they are working on versions for Mac , Linux and Windows .
Yes , I would recommend to convert it to a format that iMove can import . MKV is just a container format so you probably already have an iMovie-compatible inside that package . Under Snow Leopard just install <URL> and open it in QuickTime X and then go to File - > Save as ... and choose a suitable format from the dropdown menu . If you need more control over your conversion , you could also convert it to an iMovie-compatible format using any of the video conversion tools available for the Mac . For a long time VisualHub was the king of video format conversion , unfortunately <URL> the company behind it , closed its virtual doors . There are two main open-source options derived from VisualHub , <URL> and <URL> they both should do the trick . Another option is <URL> which will also convert to and from MKV video containers to an iMovie-compatible format .
There is anti-virus software available for Mac OS X : <URL> <URL> ( Free ) <URL> <URL> <URL> ( <URL> is free ) Is it worth it ? That 's largely up to you . Personally I 'd say unless required there 's no reason to so long as you practice " safe computing " ( eg . not opening files from just anywhere , being aware of what is installed on your computer , etc. ) . However there are some companies that require any computer ( regardless of OS ) to have up to date anti-virus software installed and operational . There are no viruses available for Mac OS X but there are several pieces of malware and trojan horses that a user must manually download and install . The anti-virus products ( and actually a feature in Mac OS X Snow Leopard ) will help fight against these threats but the primary defence is actually user education as the attack vector is primarily social engineering and not using any security hole .
You may have found something by now ( if so please share ) , but I just discovered Prismatic , which is similar to Zite , but on the web , and mobile . <URL> . <URL>
You may also want to look into the excellent <URL> . I have n't had a need for it in several years but back in the day it was really one of the best there is . Looks like it is still updated regularly .
If you have a full keyboard you can use the pgup and pgdown keys on your keyboard , near the numpad . If you are not using a full keyboard , function , labeled fn on your keyboard , plus the up and down arrow keys will give you a page up and down .
James Dempsey and the Breakpoints do a song every year at WWDC . Knowing the secret to which session will have the song requires knowing some very subtle clues to watch for in some of the Monday sessions . Besides " Model View Controller " ( 2003 ) , there 's been : " Fetch Specifications " - 2001 " Relationships " - 2002 " Model View Controller " - 2003 " <URL> " - 2004 " <URL> " - 2005 " Endian Reservations " - 2006 " <URL> " - 2007 " <URL> " - 2008 " Pasteboard Writin ' " - 2009 " <URL> " - 2010 Sorry I ca n't find all of the videos . There are also comical songs about Mac OS X. " <URL> " - 2008
Mac OS has always had a <URL> . Applications like TextEdit can have multiple main windows open without requiring multiple instances . The open command does n't usually open documents over the current document . The close button might also quit the application after closing the last window like on Windows . But what if you want to create a new document ? Many applications create an untitled document on startup . Should closing it quit the application ? There 's no real harm in keeping applications running in the background . They do n't usually use CPU , and you should have enough free or inactive memory anyway . Quitting and opening applications all the time would take more time . OS X has also supported <URL> since 10.7 . Automatic termination eliminates the need for users to quit an app . Instead , the system manages app termination transparently behind the scenes , terminating apps that are not in use to reclaim needed resources such as memory . [ ... ] Automatic termination transfers the job of managing processes from the user to the system , which is better equipped to handle the job . Users do not need to manage processes manually anyway . All they really need is to run apps and have those apps available when they need them . Automatic termination makes that possible while ensuring that system performance is not adversely affected . Apps must opt in to both automatic termination and sudden termination and implement appropriate support for them . The close button does actually quit some applications with a single main window , like Dictionary , System Preferences , and Calculator . Opening them again does n't take that long and quitting them frees users from having to do it manually .
If money is n't an issue , or one that you can wrestle with , then I do n't think there is really any better tool for this than <URL> . It does n't come with interface elements by default , but there is a freely-available extensive library of options on their site <URL> .
end question
start question
How do I move a USB Time Machine backup to a Time Capsule ?
Yes , it 's straightforward to do it , even though it would take quite sometime to complete depending on the size of your current backups . Follow the detailed procedure at <URL> . Here 's a summary of what 's required and the steps . The backups go into a sparsebundle on a . So you need to create that sparsebundle on the , mount it in and then copy over everything from your USB drive into the mounted volume . Here are the basic steps with some additional information : Configure to back up to the and start a backup . This will make it create the sparsebundle . Cancel the backup once the copying starts ( as seen in the progress window ) . Mount the sparsebundle in by double-clicking it ( or using Cmd + Down Arrow ) Delete the folder inside this volume ( you 'll be replacing it with the backup you already have ) . Open your current backup USB drive in and copy the folder from it to the partition ( mounted from the ) . Enter your administrator password and accept the prompts ( this may happen a couple of times ) .
I have n't tested this on 10.8.4 , but here 's how I used to work around this . Make a second account that exists only for you to be able to log out completely of your main account . Log into the second account only . Start a backup so that the legacy file vault files can be backed up . Basically , Time Machine does n't run unless someone is logged in .
The drive is a nice , fast server grade drive but the controller is underpowered to be a NAS for professional video work . That being said , even with two people reading / writing lots of small files , the Time Capsule works surprisingly well . At times when 3 or more people are hitting the drive at the same time for small IO , you will certainly see a slow down . Much more so than on a real NAS or server that has RAM to cache the filesystem and not be limited to the physical disk access . So if the usage is low or you are on a tight budget , have at it ! Do be sure to have one of your clients be responsible for backing up all data stored on that volume since most backup solutions do not read from a Time Capsule directly . Using the built in clone tool is not at all optimal for production use , but is fine to make a snapshot over night or over a weekend when you have occasional cause to snapshot the data .
I feel your pain . I spent the past few years on satellite and it was very unpleasant . Your best bet for monitoring and controling your Internet usage is buy <URL> . It will monitor your Mac and tell you every time that it is trying to make a connection , allowing you to allow or deny the request . For some apps ( such as email , web browser , etc ) , you may want to allow access anytime it wants it so you do n't have to approve each time . The first few days of using LittleSnitch will be frustrating , as you start to set rules and tell it what to do , but after you get past that , it will be a big help in keeping your usage in check . Unfortunately OS X is not very good about telling you everything that it is doing , and it assumes that any available Wi-Fi connection can be used without limits . Until recently iOS was much better about this , but it now allows much more background activity , so if you have an iPad and/or iPhone/iPod touch you need to watch out for those as well . When you are not using MacBook , I recommend closing the lid so that it will sleep .
Unless you excluded the OS files from the backup , Time Machine should 've backed that up along with everything else ; but in order to recover the entire OS ( rather than just your user files ) , you have to do the restore differently : use the restore tool in <URL> ( reachable by starting the Mac with Command and R held down ) . However , there are a couple of warnings I should give about this route : I have n't tested it , but I think this form of restore will wipe out everything currently on the disk , replacing it with the earlier backup snapshot . Have you done anything important since the backup ? If so , you should back that up before going this route . If you 'd excluded any files/folders from the backup , they 'll be missing from the restore as well . It 's fairly common to exclude the OS itself from backups , so if you 'd done that this form of restore will not give you a bootable system . Because of the above , I 'd be inclined to stick with the restore you have , and simply reinstall the update . BTW , the question seems to contain a bit of a misunderstanding about how OS updates and backups work . Time Machine ( and other backup systems ) back up files and folders . An OS update is n't a file or folder that can be backed up as an item ; instead , it 's a bunch of changes to various system files and folders . If those files and folders are being backed up , the updated versions will be backed up ; if not , they wo n't be . Similarly , you ca n't restore a system update , you can only restore the changed versions of the various system files ( and since you do n't know precisely which ones were changed , that pretty much means restoring all of the system files and folders ) .
Seeing that external storage is relatively inexpensive , I would leave the existing TM drive alone and purchase another external drive . That way , you can backup the additional data on the new drive to the TM disk , too . You would n't be able to do this if the additional data resides on the TM drive itself . If you do choose to use the TM disk for non-TM data , I recommend partitioning the drive to separate the TM data from the non-TM data . If you ever need to reformat the TM partition , you wo n't need to move that additional data to another disk first , or visa versa . All that being said , it is technically possible to use the TM disk to store additional data . I used to do it until # 4 ( below ) happened and I lost ~ 10k . mp3 files I then needed to re-rip from CDs . ( I did re-rip about 80 % of the lost files to Apple Lossless format , so it was n't a complete disaster , but I did lose thousands of files . ) There are several drawbacks you should keep in mind : Time Machine will delete older backups more frequently when available space is low . Performance on the drive will suffer when TM is running and you are accessing the additional data at the same time . If you need to transport the additional data off-site , you 'll also be taking your TM backup with you . When ( not if ) the entire disk crashes hard , you will lose the additional data unless it is backed up somewhere .
it generally depends on being constantly connected ( be it ethernet , wifi or some sort of 3g dongle ) or not . ultramobile and having the data everywhere where you have an internet connection : I personally have tried to host my 80gb itunes collection on a jungledisk ( powered by amazon s3 ) and I can only say it 's cumbersome . e.g. : you download new podcasts and end up re-uploading them to your s3 storage . ultramobile and all your data at home on your network ( e.g. time capsule or some sort of network attached storage ) : also did this for a while , no hickups , works great via 802.11 g although I 'd recommend 802.11 n if you 're likely to watch HD videos straight from your NAS/Time capsule . ultramobile and all your data always with you : that 's the approach I 'm currently using , I have a 500g usb2 drive I carry in my notebook bag containing my itunes library and assorted other data ( iphoto library and what not ) that does n't fit on the internal drive . It 's my favorite solution as I have my data on me even if there is no internet connection available . cheers florian
The file will be saved if the containing folder has not yet been backed up , otherwise it will be backed up next time Time Machine makes a backup . The backup will not be corrupted .
In general , I would think that a slow Time Machine disk is not going to really affect the performance of your machine . If you are using the 5400 RPM disk only for Time Machine , then the performance of that disk is only going to affect the speed that backups are made and recovered for the most part . It is true that when TM is running it is scanning your hard disk to determine what has changed , but you indicated that it is a PCIe connected SSD and thus I 'd take a guess that you 're probably not saturating that drive 's performance most of the time . It does seem that TM runs at a lower priority and thus normal activity on the SSD is going to get precedence . In general , the small slices that TM is going to steal from your SSD most likely are n't noticable and the slower performance of the 5400 RPM disk is isolated only to TM since you 're not using it for anything else . For some perspective , I have a 2008 MacPro3 ,1 with 1 SSD , 1 7200 and 2 5400 " green " drives in it and Time Machine goes out to a fairly slow ReadyNAS Duo on the network . When TM kicks off I can hear the drives in the MacPro chattering away , but I do n't notice any slow down with what I 'm doing since TM appears to be lower priority . However , attempting to go into TM to restore anything and it can be fairly abysmal . Fortunately , I rarely restore from backup :-)
According to information from <URL> , the answer is no , it will not support encrypted Time Machine backups to network-attached storage . They 're specifically mentioning Time Capsules and Airport Extremes . The issue Paul Eccles mentioned looks to be related to whether you can backup to NAS with Time Machine at all without regard to encryption status . The link referenced also seems to indicate you ca n't use Time Machine encryption on direct-attached storage , but that may be because you can use Disk Utility to encrypted a direct-attached volume instead . Commenter Fracai calls out the classic standby of creating an encrypted disk image , storing that on network-attached storage , and mounting that for your Time Machine backups . I 'll also point out the discussion on that page ( which is slightly inaccurate , but mostly on ) wherein commenter TrumpetPower ! cautions encrypting backups . This is a point worth repeating here . I 'll rephrase ( more precisely and accurately ) what TrumpetPower ! wrote : The purpose of a backup is to preserve availability of data . The purpose of encryption is to prevent availability of data without the key used to encrypt the data . If you encrypt a backup , you add complexity to a process designed to simplify and preserve access to your information . With complexity comes increased probability of failure . Thus , the chance that you lose access to your backed-up data goes up . Do yourself a favor and make sure you understand when and why you might wish to encrypt your backups and think hard about how you 'll ensure you have access to your encryption key when it counts .
I realize you tagged this as a Snow Leopard question , but if you upgrade to Lion , the new command-line utility will let you compare backups :
According to Apple ( from the <URL> ) Using Your AirPort Time Capsule Safely The only way to shut off power completely to your AirPort Time Capsule is to disconnect it from the power source . If you want to go above and beyond , you can be sure that all users all logged off , and not performing a backup through the Airport Utility , but this is not necessary ...
Launch the AirPort Utility . Select the Time Capsule whose disk you want to erase . Hit the " Manual Setup " button . Click the " Disks " icon button . Click the " Disks " tab . Select the disk ( not a subvolume , the disk itself ) . Click " Erase ... " . Follow the dialogs from there .
Over wireless , I 'd assume less than 5gb per hour . More likely 2-3 , putting your backup in the 5-6 day range . Your best bet is to use an ethernet cable to connect to the Airport Extreme while the first backup runs . You should average 10 + gb per hour over a cable and I 'd hop
Apple tried encrypting each user 's files in FileVault ( 1 ) and did away with that when FileVault 2 arrived . The easy / recommended way to do this is make no user an admin so that they can not get around the prohibition to look at other user files . Also , you will have to physically secure the backup drive or trust that no one breaks the policy to not access that drive . One easy thing you could do is have each Mac encrypt the backups by ticking that switch to prevent some users from seeing files from another computer but hat wo n't prevent same computer users that are admin and know what to type . The downside there is for several computers managing the passwords becomes onerous to a less than ideal step up in privacy . I would recommend you set up storage on a Mac mini server and have it serve up time machine to each Mac so that you can control access better than using TimeCapsule . The performance will go up substantially along with the cost . The setup is fairly easy and there are inexpensive books to guide you if needed . AppleCare also supports server so hat is extremely inexpensive for three years of phone support for enterprise caliber support .
No - you do n't need to get a new drive , but it 's always nice to consider getting a new drive for reliability reasons . At some point , retire the old drive to the shelf or delete it and repurpose it . The backup should ideally be more reliable than the source in terms of longevity . Even an unreliable drive can be useful though since it will protect you from user errors and is unlikely to fail at the same time as the primary source if you are primarily concerned about having two copies of the current data . One Time Machine drive can serve to hold files from many computers . Similarly , one computer can back up to multiple Time Machine drives . In the case where you migrate data from one Mac to another , the system will usually detect this and offer to " migrate " the one time series of backups so that you get two benefits : You do n't lose the space savings where each file is only saved when it changes - saving space when a dozen backup intervals contain the same file version . You do n't lose history and have to wait for all the files to back up .
The AirPort Time Capsule ( the official name , with my emphasis added on AirPort - see below for the reason ) , runs NetBSD , according to the <URL> section for NetBSD on Wikipedia . It cites two sources - one being an answer from superuser.com ( not very useful in this case ) , and another an <URL> , that states : A source unconnected with Apple provided convincing proof that the AirPort Extreme uses NetBSD as its embedded operating system ... The AirPort Extreme Base Station , AirPort Express Base Station and the AirPort Time Capsule all run the same firmware ( that 's why the AirPort in all the names ) . This can be seen in the firmware downloads available for these products - it 's the same download for all these devices . Of course , nobody has jailbroken these devices yet , so we do not know if or how the installation process chooses specific bits for the underlying hardware . But the OS can not be different with the same firmware download ( it does not make sense for these devices to have such a scheme ) . See the recent <URL> page for understanding the above correlation .
I saw your question before , but was at a loss to provide specific information . However , I took a look at <URL> . In particular on the page , <URL> , I noted that it 's actually the hardware address , not the user ID , that is used as identification by Time Machine . From the page : Each Mac is identified by a hardware address internal to the Mac . It 's embedded in the Logic Board ( motherboard ) . The hardware address is n't displayed in the backups , but is kept in an extended attribute of the folder representing the Computer . That 's why when you get a new logic board , Time Machine thinks you got a new Mac . That 's also why you can rename your Mac ( System Preferences > Sharing ) and Time Machine will automatically rename the Computer folder on the backups ; or you can have two Macs with the same name , but Time Machine still knows which backups belong to which Mac . However , on the same page , Pondini goes on to say that each backup volume is assigned a Universally Unique IDentifier ( UUID ) that is in the extended attributes of the volume . Pondini says that this " should " cause Time Machine to automatically recognize the old backup . However , if Time Machine does not automatically recognize the old backup via the UUID , then there is a <URL> . It 's getting fairly involved at that point , and though it might be worth the effort from an investigative standpoint , you might be better off starting your Time Machine backups from scratch ( just to wipe the slate clean , so to speak ) .
Yes , it 's straightforward to do it , even though it would take quite sometime to complete depending on the size of your current backups . Follow the detailed procedure at <URL> . Here 's a summary of what 's required and the steps . The backups go into a sparsebundle on a . So you need to create that sparsebundle on the , mount it in and then copy over everything from your USB drive into the mounted volume . Here are the basic steps with some additional information : Configure to back up to the and start a backup . This will make it create the sparsebundle . Cancel the backup once the copying starts ( as seen in the progress window ) . Mount the sparsebundle in by double-clicking it ( or using Cmd + Down Arrow ) Delete the folder inside this volume ( you 'll be replacing it with the backup you already have ) . Open your current backup USB drive in and copy the folder from it to the partition ( mounted from the ) . Enter your administrator password and accept the prompts ( this may happen a couple of times ) .
AirPort Time Capsules do not come with any cloud-based storage . They are an entirely network-local backup and storage device . Whomever told you it it had storage " on the cloud " was not being truthful . You can see <URL> on Apple 's web page . As you will see : there is no mention of any cloud-based storage at all on that page .
end question
start question
Is it normal to hear the MacBook fans all the time even if they run at 2000rpm ?
What you can do is use the laptop on a solid underground . Especially if you use a pillow ( which where you laptop completely sink in ) , the pillow is covering the laptop 's ventilation holes . And it 's even stated in <URL> : Do not push objects into the ventilation openings . The exhaust is the screen hinge , but the intake is most likely all the other cracks and holes in the case . And if the laptop ca n't take enough fresh air ( since you 're covering most of the cracks and holes with your pillow/blanket/lap ) , the fans have to work very hard to get all the hot air out . Try to lift up your Mac as you 're sitting on your bed , does that improve the activity of the fans ? But no worries , you 're laptop wo n't suffer from the heating . And if it get 's too hot , it will shut itself down ( to prevent damage ) , so then you 'll know you 've gone too far :) Another thing what makes your Mac blow like a turbine is playing flash-files or converting stuff , but I guess you 're not doing that since you have n't got any high CPU or HDD activity .
No - the iCloud section of the Settings app only allows for one account on iOS 5 . You can however add as many iCloud accounts to the Mail , Contacts , Calendars as you have time to set up . You will see that you can enable the majority of the services on each subsequent non-main iCloud account . The following items work only on the main account : Backup Documents &amp; Data Photo Stream The following item is exclusive - any one ( but only one ) account can have : Find My iPhone For example , I use one iCloud account as my primary personal account and have a second account for a consulting business . Here is what that non-main account looks like when set up .
I personally started typing as fast as I would on a ' normal ' keyboard after about five minutes . You 'll really get used to it in a very short time !
I 've noticed the same thing , but only when there was a notification on the lock screen . I 'm chalking it up to that , and not worrying about it . But still interested to learn more if anyone knows anything .
They 're located at . Each application has its own individual folder under Mobile Documents where its documents and settings are stored .
No - this general behavior was n't changed in iOS 5 as part of the video / music app split .
As a developer , you can control exactly which hardware you want to support and which you will not support by picking the source code you use and properly tagging the files you upload to Apple . The iOS app store then can prevent the devices you have disallowed from downloading the app . So , there 's nothing to prevent a developer from targeting only iPhone 4 with their code or just targeting a specific iOS version . It 's up to you ( and each other developer ) to decide on a build-by-build basis , so the general answer would be : No , there is no guarantee that all apps ( or any one app ) that run ( s ) on iPhone 4 will also run on iPod Touch ( 4th generation ) .
This will work with the right toolkit ( see links below ) since the system software ( Mac OS X ) is almost hardware-agnostic , especially if you use a newer system than the original one . Actually some of the different MacBook Pro Mid 2010 models were sold with the same hard disks ( the 500 GB serial ATA ) . The only thing you may have to adjust is the screen resolution . Hard Disk Replacement/Swap : <URL> <URL> But why do n't you just use a Firewire 800 cable , start the MacBook Pro 15 " in Firewire Target disk mode and connect it to the MacBook Pro 17 " ? You may even start your MacBook Pro 17 " from the Target mode MacBook Pro 15 " by choosing the latter in System Preferences - > Startvolume . Update : Hard Disk Replacement/Swap : <URL> The standard of the Serial ATA interface changed from 2.0 ( MacBookPro6 ,1 ) to 3.0 ( MacBookPro8 ,2 ) . If the MacBookPro8 ,2 contains a SATA II hard drive it will work , if it contains a SATA III hard drive it should work ( depends on the hd ) .
No . You can still hear the sound by creating a new audio device in Audio MIDI Setup . Go to the SoundFlower menu and click " Audio Setup " . Audio MIDI Setup should popup up . Create a new multi-output device ( click the + in the bottom left hand corner ) . Then set the settings as pictured below : This will allow you to capture the system sound and still hear it through your speakers/headphones .
This is a workaround , as I could n't find a hotkey or menu option to do this . Still , clicking and then Will show all anotations . I can now see all the annotations without manually clicking them . This worked on Preview 5.5.1 .
You can leave your MacBook Pro running when plugged into an external power source . This should not dramatically reduce the life span of your computer . Be sure to allow the display to sleep after idle time . Leaving a typical display powered on constantly can reduce the life span and cause problems . When your Mac is not plugged in , try and follow <URL> . Apple recommend running down your MacBook Pro 's battery once a month or so . This will help maximise the battery 's life .
The recently announced 12 inch sized retina screen <URL> will be the first fanless MacBook to ship once it goes on sale . The MacBook Air ( 11 " &amp; 13 " ) and the MacBook Pro 13 " have one fan , the MacBook Pro 15 " has two .
It appears you can start Fusion headless by executing the following : / Applications/VMware \ Fusion.app / Contents/Library/vmrun - T fusion start ~ / Documents/Virtual \ Machines.localized / [ IMAGENAME ] . vmwarevm / [ IMAGENAME ] . vmx nogui You could also add to your $ PATH or create an alias to have easier access to the command . You can find more info on the command in <URL> . While a bit out-dated , it should still contain relevant information on how to start and stop your server . If you are interested in running headless Linux servers for your development environment etc , I can also highly recommend to use VirtualBox instead . It is free , has extensive command-line support , and while running headless VMs Fusion loses most if its advantages ( seamless GUI integration ) over VirtualBox anyway . What 's more , tools like <URL> can even facilitate running these environments to a much greater extent . With the addition of a paid add-on ( " provider " ) , Vagrant can control VMWare as well as VirtualBox for you <URL> .
Yes , it is possible , and great fun ! One way to synchronize apps is using Korg 's WiST technology . This allows apps on multiple iDevices to synchronize over WiFi . They maintain <URL> on their site . Another method is to slave all of your iDevices to a single MIDI clock ( e.g. a drum machine that sends clock over MIDI ) . There are multiple ways to get MIDI into your device including the Alesis IO Dock , the iRig MIDI , and the Line6 MIDI Mobilizer . This is a little more hassle than the WiST approach because you have to wire up a bunch of cables , but it opens up a larger group of apps since there are many apps that support CoreMIDI that do not support WiST . When shopping for apps in the App Store , look for any that say they support CoreMIDI . <URL> has a good starting list , but is by no means comprehensive . Finally , in addition to this multiple-iPad fun , you can also make use of MIDI between apps on a single iPad . e.g. Running a sequencer that is controlling a synth app running in the background . Not all CoreMIDI apps support it , but many do . I 've been having a great time using the Genome sequencer app to control synths such as Animoog . It 's a great time to be a musician and have an iDevice ... much is possible now that was impossible only months ago !
MacBooks are designed for close and go operation and you 're not doing the system or hardware any harm by following the practice . That being said , there have been past issues with MacBooks not going to sleep properly when the lid is closed -- the indicator being that the Mac is hot to the touch and the battery level is lower than you would expect when you remove it from your bag . There are some reports of wake from sleep issues , generally caused by a " stuck " process . Assuming you have adequate RAM , the slowdown in your startup process is most likely caused by applications and processes being loaded at startup . The startup on my own MacBook Pro ( Mid 2007 model ) is measured in minutes as various mission critical utilities -- QuickSilver , TextExpander , Growl , etc. -- load and populate the menubar If you login to an alternate ( preferably clean , stock ) user account is the startup process faster ? To get a better idea about what you 're loading at startup , navigate to System Preferences and open the Users and Groups pane . ( Note : Users and Groups is titled Accounts on some systems . ) Select your user account from the panel on the left , then open the Login Items tab . This screen grab is from a MacBook Air that runs only a subset of the login items of my personal MacBook Pro . If Applications that you do n't need are running , you can remove them . Do this with caution , because sometimes there are login items necessary for other software to run as expected . Beyond that , you might want use <URL> to discover what 's running on your Mac . Run it right after a system startup . If you amend your question to include a <URL> of your login items and/or the running processes , we may be able to help you further .
Yes , the downloads folder comes default with a PDF explaining what that folder is there for . But there should be no " invisible " file . If you 'd like to investigate the matter more , fire up Terminal ( Applications/Utilities ) and type the following commands ( or copy paste them ) . If you are new to the commandline , it is one per line and hit ENTER after each : The first will navigate to your Downloads folder . The second will list all the files in it , hidden or not . The following is a print-out of my Downloads folder : The " d " in front of all those other letters ( rw-r -- r , etc. ) denotes a directory ( or a folder ) . If there is none , that means it 's a file ( or a document of some kind ) . You can see the size of the file/folder in the column after " staff " ( this is the group you belong too ) . And lastly , the date the file was created and the file name . There are no relevant or important system files that are placed in Downloads . This is simply files the user downloads . I ca n't speak why it 's there , but I can assure you that deleting it will not cause any harm to your system .
No , you want be able to stream music to two airport express units simultaneously from an iOS device such as an iPad or iPhone . However , you can stream simultaneously from iTunes running on a Mac or PC . For example , you ca n't have speakers playing in the kitchen and speakers playing in the dining room at the same time unless they are connected to the same airport express . If you have them connected to two airport expresses , you can choose kitchen or dining room but not both . You can play to both if you stream from a Mac or PC using itunes . However , there are apps that will let you control the Mac or PC from your iOS device but you ca n't do it natively .
My experience is no one , ten or even 50 apps can slow down your boot in any measurable manner . Even an old iPhone 3 with 11 pages of apps booted in visually the same time as a freshly restored iPhone 3 . The reason for this is a number of design choices that provide real benefits to the running system and also are good at isolating boot times from application influences . Specifically , nothing auto-launches , there are not multiple user accounts to prepare , and the OS systems that display and interact with apps work from databases that update when apps are deleted or installed - not at boot time .
The cones in almost any speaker will break down over time . Various environmental factors will determine how long a speaker lasts , but overdriving the element can definitely have an adverse effect . It 's impossible to provide any precise data but in short , you 're probably shortening the life of the speakers ( by an indeterminate amount of time ) by running them at maximum volume but , provided you 're not hearing any distortion from the speakers , you 're not damaging them by doing so .
Gui Method If you want something to run when a user logs in , the easiest way is to use the GUI . You can Go to the screen , and add the item there by clicking the symbol dragging and dropping the onto the pane In the dock , bring up the context menu for an app , select , then select Launchd method If you want to launch something that is not a , or you want to have more control over launching it , such as : at a certain time or at a specified interval continuously re-launching if it crashes not related to user login as a function of network access only run when another process is running when a file is added to a folder etc. . then you want to use the technical solution that is . The easiest way to set up a config file is to use a tool to help . At the time of writing the most popular method is <URL> ( which has an older free version available from SourceForge ) , or the <URL> tool . Hand Coding If you do n't want to use Lingon or the PList Website and only want to use the raw tools available on the system , you can write your own by hand Here is my launchd script to run SomeApp continuously after the system boots ( independent of a user logging in ) . It is in / System/Library/LaunchAgents / and called SomeApp.restart.plist . If it is run based on a user login , it could be stored in ~ / Library/LaunchAgents / Load it once with The option will launch the application the first time launchctl runs this . The option will re-launch the application if it crashes . The will run it at a certain time . Presumably this is mutually exclusive with the previous two , but is included to show what can be done with Launchctl will run this after reboots . There are many additional options that can be found by experimenting with Lingon or by reading the man pages for , , , , etc. .
end question
start question
How can you get Finder to sort by name , but also sort folders before files ?
There 's no built in feature in the Finder to achieve that , but with the " plugin " <URL> you can get that . It 's located under the " Tweaks " tab in the TotalFinder settings . Edit : There was a screenshot here , but it was out of date . Look at <URL> instead for an up-to-date screenshot !
You can do this with a Smart Playlist . Click File - > New Smart Playlist Configure the rule so it reads " Media Kind is Podcast " Make sure the " Limit to " box is unchecked , and that the " Live updating " box is Click OK Once this is done you will have a playlist with all your podcasts . To sort by date , right click the column bar at the top and check " Release Date " . Click on the Release Date column to sort your podcasts by date . The only downside to this view is that this view does not provide the blue dot that indicates whether or not a podcast has been listened to . You can , however , add the " Plays " column and use that instead , as podcasts that have not been listened to will have a play count of " 0 " . You can also have the smart playlist automatically remove played podcasts from the list by editing it and adding the rule " Plays is 0 " .
Simply drag the folder to the desired position in the sidebar . This adds the folder to the sidebar in every current and future Finder window , as well as Finder Open/Save windows/sheets . Removal is done by dragging the folder from the sidebar out to the side .
On the root of each indexed volume , a hidden folder called . Spotlight-V100 . Also : spotlight metadata is probably not large enough to be worthwhile in excluding , at least if you are doing this for space reasons . Spotlight is also essential for TM to work properly , as this is how TM determines which files have changed since the last backup .
Even easier than that , on Mac OS X you have what is called a " me " card . Which is a special vcard that is tied to your account name and profile picture . You can open up address book and edit your name and it will mirror that in iChat and everything else .
There 's no exact equivalent that I 'm aware of ; I usually rubberband-select a region and then command-click the ones I do n't want . Mouse down at the top left of the area you want to select , drag to the bottom right of the area , release . A rubberband will be highlighted as you drag the mouse ; all icons within the rubberband will be selected . It 's also possible to chain these by holding Shift or Option for the second and successive selections , so you can add additional selections or deselect icons selected previously .
There 's no built in feature in the Finder to achieve that , but with the " plugin " <URL> you can get that . It 's located under the " Tweaks " tab in the TotalFinder settings . Edit : There was a screenshot here , but it was out of date . Look at <URL> instead for an up-to-date screenshot !
If a machine is found via Bonjour/multicast DNS , you may need to add a suffix to use the hostname in Terminal . If it was found via NetBIOS ( either broadcast or WINS ) , you may need to use to get an IP address :
Yes . It is known that FSEvents is the basis for Time Machine , and in fact Spotlight indexing as well before that . In both cases , it acts as a tripwire for the relevant parts of your system , so that Time Machine knows what it needs to back up and Spotlight knows what it needs to index . However , using FSEvents for backups does leave a tiny bit of room for error , as you have probably discovered . <URL> details another idiosyncrasy . <URL> is a brilliant little app that can help you delve into the FSEvents world if you are interested . At the end of the day , Time Machine is n't really considered professional-grade . It 's brilliant for what it is , and I still use it , but I highly recommend pairing it with something like a weekly full disk clone ( off-site if possible ) for a more comprehensive backup strategy .
This still is possible via a work around . The right-click contextual menu does not contain an option Make Alias for the Originals/Masters directories , but it does for subdirectories . The option Make Alias always shows in the menubar under File & #x 2192 ; Make Alias but is greyed out for the Originals/Masters directories . Workaround Go to a subdirectory of Originals/Master in Finder . Create your alias , & #x 2318 ; + L. Open the Info of the created alias folder , & #x 2318 ; + I. Click the button Select new Original Press & #x 2318 ; + & #x 21E7 ; + G to enter a custom path . Enter your path , e.g. Rename the Alias folder .
<URL> is a free alternative . It 's no longer supported , but it continues to work just fine .
You can use a shell script like this : skips a file when a file with the same name exists in the target .
Put all your Phish in a playlist , and give it a name like ' tunesofish ' . Then simply say " shuffle playlist tunesofish " . Siri will open the playlist and play it shuffled . Here , I 've asked Siri to play my Comedy playlist : <URL> This works with a smart playlist set to auto-add everything from artist " Phish " : <URL>
There is not a native way to do this in iOS , but there are many possibilities for workarounds . Here 's one : Set up <URL> and install the helper app on your iDevice . Create a rule in Boxcar telling the helper app to get a push notification every time a message is received at the forwarding address provided . If you need help with this , see <URL> . Create a rule ( or whatever they 're called in your email service ) which automatically forwards folders ' new messages to the Boxcar address . If this fix does n't suit you , you may want to do a similar thing with <URL> .
There is a way ! If you go to your Settings > General > Reset , there is an option to reset the home screen layout . Pick that option and all your apps will be rearranged in alphabetical order . But you 'll lose all your folders and maps ...
Finder has a menu item found under Go ( " Go to Folder ... " ) where you can type a full path . The command + shift + G keyboard shortcut makes it handy to summon .
Finder has two separate sorting modes in Lion . If you hold option , the View > Arrange By menu turns into Sort By . You can also change the Sort By mode from the view options .
At least for 10.7.5-10 .9.5 the assumption that the number of Get Info windows is restricted to 35 is wrong . Instead the screen resolution and the size of the Get Info window seem to be the restricting factors . Using a 1920x1200 px monitor I get 6 windows in a row and 12 rows ( = 72 windows ) . Trying to get the info on 73 objects and more a summarizing Get Info window will open . Apparently there is no simple hidden numerical threshold of simultaneously opening Get Info windows . To simply have an identical behavior for cmdI and altcmdI map cmdI to altcmdI for the Finder.app with a key remapping app . If you do n't want to use a remapping app use System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Shortcuts and create custom Finder shortcuts : Get Info - > shiftaltcmdI ( to disable cmdI ) or Get Info - > altcmdI and Show Inspector - > cmdI to swap the shortcuts of Get Info and Show Inspector . The same applies to Get Summary Info ( with a different shortcut of course ) if you prefer to change that one . To quickly close all Get Info windows hit altcmdW or for some system versions alt-click on the close button of one of the windows . All other non-Get Info windows will also be closed though .
To enable the Finder to show all files ( including " hidden " ones ) , you can type the following command in at the command prompt in Terminal : The first part sets a hidden preference so the finder shows all files ; the second part restarts the Finder so these preferences take effect ( killall on its own tells a program to quit ; the - HUP flag asks the program to restart ) . If you want to reverse this so that the Finder now hides the files it normally hides , type this in Terminal : If you are more comfortable using the GUI , there is a <URL> that lets you toggle this setting any many more , but it involves installing third-party software on your system . That said , your actual problem of disk space not being freed up when you " delete " files is actually by design . To permanently delete a file , you need to empty the Trash -- Mac OS X does n't delete files directly in the Finder ; it first moves them to a temporary storage on their original volume , and then when you Empty Trash ... in Finder , the files get deleted . Some users are reporting that is not working on their Mountain Lion systems but ( note the lower case ) is working . On my system running Mountain Lion , I am finding that the command works as written , but if it does n't for you , try lower-casing the F in Finder in defaults write statement .
Finally found the solution to this problem . Outlook provides a custom importer to Spotlight to index email . It is typically found in : " / Applications/Microsoft Office 2011/Microsoft Outlook.app / Contents/Library/Spotlight / Microsoft Outlook.mdimporter " , You can use the command to list all installed importers . When I did that I saw that the importer from the old installation of Outlook was still installed because it was still in the trash can . When I tried to manually import an email using the command I saw that it was failing to load the importer from the trash . Emptying the trash fixed the issue . Wish there was a way to selectively empty the trash without deleting everything . Once I emptied the trash , I had to force Spotlight to reindex the email folder by adding the folder to the Privacy tab of Spotlight System Settings , and then removing it again . After spotlight reported the indexing was complete ( via the Spotlight dropdown in the upper right ) the email was all indexed again . Hope that helps !
end question
start question
Can I use regular mouse with my MacBook Pro 2011 using Mac OS Lion ?
I have used everything from wired Bluetooth ( incl . Razer Naga and a bluetooth Logitech ) on all my Macs . All of the buttons on the Naga work via a control panel interface , and I have had no problem . Nevertheless , the " mouse feel " still is n't up to the standards of the native Mac mouses . No matter the setting , the acceleration goes from too slow to too fast in a heartbeat . It 's usable , but I keep going back to my Magic Mouse for everything but gaming ( in games where I need those extra buttons ) .
Macs work just fine with non-Apple keyboards . Alt becomes option , and the Windows key becomes the command key . And if you want to rearrange them , you can easily do so in the System Preferences : However , I prefer to use Apple keyboards with my Mac as they have buttons on the top to control expose , volume , and pause/rewind/fastforward of media playback . Apple keyboards also have the command key better positioned for keyboard shortcuts than the Windows key is on regular keyboards .
According to <URL> This model supports a simultaneous maximum resolution up to 2560x1600 on two external displays via Thunderbolt . Alternately , it can support a single display up to 2560x1600 via Thunderbolt and a single 1080p display at up to 60 Hz , 3840x2160 at 30 Hz , or 4096x2160 at 24 Hz via HDMI . ... so I 'd say ' yes ' .
If it supports the standard USB mouse functionality ( <URL> ) , it should work . Otherwise , you can use <URL> or <URL> . If you have the <URL> installed , you might also see what <URL> says about the device .
If you want a cheaper alternative to running two <URL> , you can add a second monitor ( in addition to one off the mini-Displayport ) try a USB <URL> adapter , <URL> from <URL> ( there are other brands , any one using the Displaylink technology should work ) . The performance wo n't be as good , but as long as you 're not doing anything involving lots of 3D , it should be acceptable .
Yes . It usually " just works , " but if you 're having trouble , Apple has detailed instructions : <URL>
Mid 2010 MBPs ( 7,1 ) with Geforce 320M are known for freezing when using faster ram . Motherboard chipset supports it , but graphics chip does n't and OSX freezes when initializes the graphics . My recommendation - buy 1066MHz DDR3 . If you ca n't find it in your local store , try <URL> , it 's a reputable online store that guarantees compatible ram at good prices . ps . I 'm not in any way connected with OWC .
You should go for the 64bit version . Apple is more and more leaning towards 64 bit adoption . In the end , unless it 's some heavy processing application , you wo n't even feel the difference with the 32bit version . But at least you 'll be ready for the future :)
No it is not possible . The screen is what is limiting the resolution . That does mean that you can set up and use an external monitor with higher resolution as you can read on : <URL>
As far as I know , the old mac mice used a DE-9 connector , but this is n't RS-232-compatible . If it was , you could have used an <URL> and then a standard <URL> ( both must be active converters ) . If you get an ADB-mouse you will be able to use them as there are <URL> for these . If you 're into electronics and programming , you could build your own converter eg . using a <URL> for few bucks . It should n't be too hard as the old apple mouse just sends <URL> which should easily be translated into pointer movements .
I think you are going about this the wrong way . You are looking defensively when you should be on offense . Consider getting something like a privacy shield to place around the urinator : Another alternative might be to simply bring physical pain into the mix . Wounding the urinator that sprays wildly towards you and the Macbook might make the urinator realize that control is important . Again , think offense ... not defense .
According to <URL> source , you wo n't be able to do that . You have to have a Thunderbolt Mac and use a Thunderbolt cable to use a Thunderbolt iMac as an external display . <URL> has a table that confirms it . Sorry !
Yes , you can use any earphones with a 3.5 mm audio jack . I 'm surprised you did not just try it out :) I thought I 'd add some additional background information I just read about in a report on yet another Apple-Samsung patent case , Apple <URL> on an audio jack which has the circuitry to detect the type of headphones plugged in , and I can only assume this is what they actually use in their iPhones .
<URL> does the job well . There are both Windows and Mac version available for free .
You should n't have to continually pair the mouse after every restart , this indicates there is a problem . First thing I would try is to power everything down , and then turn the mouse back on ( small switch on the bottom ) so that the mouse is " discoverable " before restarting . Ensure you follow these <URL> after restart . Make sure you have installed all system updates . OS X 10.6.2 , for example , fixed a problem with bluetooth pairing . If this still does n't fix the problem , you could try to Reset the System Management Controller ( SMC ) <URL>
I 'm going to start off backwards . 4k Display will require some sort of cable , wether DVI , Display port , or Thunderbolt that is from manufacturer to manufacturer and model to model different . According to the tech specs of 4K it is compatible with Display port 1.2 . According to : <URL> " Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , both at millions of colors " This could however simply be that Apple has only tested it on displays with that resolution and once 4k displays are out in the real world people can test it . So your MBP Retina can support 2 external displays and the use of the the clamshell display at the same time . Those external display can be attached via HDMI and Thunderbolt ( adapters ) or both via Thunderbolt adapters . But so far the tech specs limit the resolution to 2560x1600 . It could also be that the resolution output could be enhanced with a software update ( firmware update ) at a later time . Archived Specifications page : <URL> <URL> .
Four vents exist on the retina Macbook Pro 15 " . Two vents exist on the non-retina Macbook Pro 15 " , 17 " models . One vent only on the Macbook Air 11 " &amp; 13 " and non-retina Macbook Pro 13 " . The outflow vents are located right ' between ' the display and keyboard on the vertical rear face of the unibody frame . Shine a light on the display hinge from above and below and you can see the little holes best when looking down along the display from a very steep angle . While the non-retina MBP take all of the inflowing air from the remaining space next to the outflow vents of the display hinge - the retina Macbook Pro has an additional two vents for air intake on the side where external ports are located . Apple has done an amazing job at the dB noise they make when idle ( ~ 2000rpm ) . When the fans kick in because of heavy CPU/GPU usage you 'll definitely hear them . They will go up to ~ 6000rpm . Tracking fan RPM with software will be your best method to know if the case you have is insulating the frame . Increased idle fan speed will compensate for a case that insulates the frame and traps heat from below . The unibody frame in in close thermal contact with the CPU/GPU so a good proportion of the idle heat actually escapes through the keyboard and topcase . You might also be interested in <URL> . [ <URL> ]
You are right lots of myths . and more info <URL> " kb/ht1446 " Apple Portables : <URL> The battery has an internal microprocessor that provides an estimate of the amount of energy in the battery as it charges and discharges . The battery needs to be recalibrated from time to time to keep the onscreen battery time and percent display accurate and to keep the battery operating at maximum efficiency . You should perform this procedure when you first use your computer and then every few months after that . If you normally leave your Apple portable computer connected to AC power and very rarely use it on battery power you may want to perform this process once a month . Portables with built-in batteries ( aka MacBook Air ) Current Apple portable computer batteries are pre-calibrated and do not require the calibration procedure outlined in this article . In summary : The battery has no memory effect &amp; can be charged whenever you like . You ca n't overcharge it , &amp; charging automatically stops when your battery is full . The two biggest killers of Lithium batteries are heat &amp; frequent full discharge/recharge cycles . For calibration reasons ( to make your battery status indicator accurate ) you can discard but not less than 20 % once in a few months . Best way to prolong the life is to keep it as cool as possible . That might mean do not take your lap top in your bed , do not keep it in the sun , ect .
Yes , you can . The system , cache , or any hardware-specific data such as drivers are not backed up . Even if they were , any installation of OS X contains the necessary drivers for any supported Mac model by that version of the system ( with the exception of printer drivers IIRC , which are not included to save space and will be downloaded ) .
I believe that you 'll need to download Darwiin Remote form here : <URL> . This software will allow communication between the Wii Remote and your computer . I have n't played with this for a long time , but I believe that when I did this app allows the Wii Remote to act as your mouse and provide direct interaction with the system ( I used a candle to provide the required infrared source for tracking ) .
end question
start question
How to put Photos.app main library on an external disk ?
You can change the library location from the window on the tab . and select the tab . At the top where it says click the button : In the Finder window that opens , move the to the place where you 'd rather it exist . This can take some time if it 's a large library . Once it 's moved , double click on it in Finder and your Photos app will update and point to the new location .
Selecting " MS-DOS ( FAT ) " will automatically format as FAT16 or FAT32 depending on the target 's size .
Assign to Space Go to the space you want the app to open in ( in your case the second space ) Right click your application 's dock icon Move your cursor to " Options " Under " Assign to " select " This Desktop " Window position and size control I Googled and found a solution for the resizing issue . <URL> Make your application launch via an Apple Script ! Make a script similar to this : Save it as " Application " Put the saved application in your Launch Items instead of the program itself Additionally you may undock it with <URL> to make this script run silently .
Enable Disk Access was a feature on the iPods , but has never been an option on the iPhone , iPod Touch , or iPad .
I do n't think it is possible using iTunes . You can try <URL> , though ( wich is free ) , or <URL> ( free until Dec. 1 2010 )
From <URL> : Home &amp; Lock Screen . This indicates that the Home screen or Lock screen was displayed on your device . For example , the display was awakened by pressing the Home button or by a notification . If an app frequently wakes your display with notifications , you can turn off push notifications for the app in Settings > Notifications . Tap App and set Allow Notifications to Off .
Your iPhoto library ( by default ) is located in ~ / Pictures as a package ( . photolibrary ) . Your iTunes library ( by default ) is located in ~ / Music as a folder . Copying the entire library will copy all the data ( unless you are using referenced media ) . Your app settings are located in ~ / Library/Preferences .
Use <URL> to resize your existing partitions . Make a bootable disc or USB stick . And be careful , Gparted can easily destroy your data . If this does n't work then you will probably struggle to find any other option . There is no way to my knowledge to change MBR to GPT without destroying all of the partitions and their associated data .
Not an exact answer to your question , but when using Terminal.app there is an option to even further reduce hard disk sleep time from 10 minutes to 1 minute , with this command :
Hard linked files share the same inode ( which kind of identifies the file in the filesystem ) . So what you can do is to get the path of two photos which should be the same ( " Reveal in Finder " in the old application , probably something similar in the new ) , open Terminal and run to see whether the number is really the same .
Hold down the decrease screen brightness button at the top of the keyboard , it will get dimmer and dimmer , and at the end jump to a black screen ( the screen 's light will actually be off ) . To turn the screen back just press the increase screen brightness button .
One option would be to run the following script in Terminal Add lines for additional suffixes and target folders as needed ( and also keep in mind that is not the same as ) .
I keep my documents on the Mac side as I 'm pretty much only using Parallels to run my BootCamp install , so that way they 're backed up . I do n't really mind doing a fresh reinstall of windows if something goes wrong .
The sparsebundle is how Time Machine backs up using the network method . The Backups.backupdb method is how it backs up when the drive is hooked up locally therefore you ca n't make it create a sparse bundle if its connected locally because that 's the way time machine works . If you want it to make a sparse bundle you have to backup through a network . It should not make a difference to you since you 'll be accessing it through time machine without having to worry about files etc. .
Open terminal and type : Look here for more information : <URL>
Yes you can , here are the steps : Connect your external disk Open Finder and go to move the Aperture Library.aplibrary file to a location on your new disk Open Aperture and go to preferences ( from menu or by pressing ⌘ + , ) On the General tab , change the location of the library to where you copied the Aperture Library.aplibrary file That 's it , the library is now on your external drive .
Mac OS X Hints has <URL> : To go back to pre-Lion behaviour enter the following command in Terminal : To undo this change type type the following command or zap the PRAM ( press Cmd + Opt + p + r at power up ) :
Your best bet is to follow the instructions on this <URL> . Things you 'll need : Flash drive bigger than 4 GB ( 8 GB + would be best ) InstallESD.dmg ( extracted from the OS X Lion App , if you 've saved it prior to the upgrade ) There 's an alternate method mentioned <URL> . Note : If you do n't have the Lion Install App , follow the instructions on this <URL> to download it again .
It is not officially supported . " <URL> " This is usually because of issues with the network file system not guaranteeing that writes have completed on disk before giving a " success " status .
I already answered a related question . I may not know the most definite answer , But I read that iTunes Match uses Gracenote 's MusicID program . It seems MusicID uses the following techniques to identify songs . MusicID-featured Identification Technologies : CD Identification : Using the CD 's unique Table of Content ( TOC ) , MusicID can identify CDs released around the world . Even with multiple pressings and release dates , patented fuzzy matching enables accurate recognition . Stream Identification : Using an audio waveform fingerprint technology , MusicID can identify music with short audio samples anywhere in the song . Digital File Identification : MusicID can identify individual songs or albums in a user 's collection regardless of source , format , or tag information . Utilizing a multi-step process which combines stream identification with textual information analysis from the file 's embedded tags , file name , directory path , and other related files in the user 's collection , individual or groups of songs can be matched to albums . More <URL> . To answer your question , they perform some fuzzy text matching algorithm to map meta data and also perform audio waveform analysis .
end question
start question
Will my apps be removed from the App Store if my developer account expires ?
Yes - all your apps will be removed from their respective App Stores if your developer program membership expires . If your Apple Developer Program membership expires , you will still have access to iTunes Connect . However , your apps will no longer be available for download on the App Store and you will not be able to submit new apps or updates . Source : <URL> Attempting to log in to iTunes Connect will show the following message , but all of the services are still accessible .
The Mac App Store does not currently have the concept of an " authorized " or " deauthorized " computer . If you download an app legitimately from the Mac App Store , it is DRM free ( at least with regard to execution ) , and completely functional on your computer . The immediate answer to your question is actually that you can not deauthorize your computer in the Mac App Store :) .
Enabling the root user decreases security . Apple turns it off by default which means that someone trying to perform a remote log in both has to guess an admin user name and the password . It 's not a huge decrease in security , since all admin users can become root knowing an admin password , but by enabling root , you have either doubled the exposure ( the first account on a Mac has to be an Admin account and the root doubles the exposure ) or if you have several Admin accounts , it increases the number by one . Since it only takes one password to be guessed or " stolen " - having fewer openings is a more secure stance from a numbers and chance standpoint .
No , Apple did n't implement the gift feature in the Mac App Store . I imagine it will happen eventually , but it is n't there right now . Your only option would be to buy your friend an iTunes gift card , which can be used to buy apps . <URL>
I would say there is n't really any default music player on the iPhone . You could say that Apple 's Music-app is the one that opens when you press " Play " on the lock-screen or the " multitasking bar " , but there 's no real advantage in that . To answer your question , no . You are pretty much unable to change any default things in the non-jailbroken version of iOS . With that said , you can do some tweaks having jailbroken your device . If you would like to use Siri to play your Spotify music , there is a jailbreak app for that called <URL> . Other than that , you could use the jailbreak app <URL> . It makes the Spotify-application the one used on the multitasking bar .
Reporting a concern is the only way to attempt to remove a review . The process is not instant and requires manual approval . If you 've only just sent the form , wait a bit . If it 's been a while and the review is still there , it probably means that someone has reviewed your complaint and declined it .
You can listen to music on the Apple Watch without your iPhone . In this answer , you 'll learn how to sync a playlist and pair your bluetooth headphones . Make a music playlist You can keep one music playlist on your Apple Watch at a time . Audiobooks and podcasts are n't compatible . On your iPhone , go to the Music app . Tap My Music > Playlists > New . Give your playlist a name , and then tap Add Songs . Search or tap to find songs , artists , or albums to add . When you find something that you 'd like to add , tap " + " . After you add the item , tap Done . You can then search for more music to add . When you 're done adding music , tap Done to save your playlist . ( A ) Sync your playlist Set your Apple Watch on its charger and make sure the device is charging . On your iPhone , go to Settings > Bluetooth . Make sure Bluetooth is turned on . From the Apple Watch app on your iPhone , tap My Watch > Music > Synced Playlist . Tap the playlist you want to sync to your Apple Watch . When a message next to your playlist says Sync Pending , your playlist will begin syncing from your iPhone to your Apple Watch . Wait until the sync is finished before using your Apple Watch . To see the sync progress , open the Apple Watch app on your iPhone and tap Music . You might need to download any music stored in the cloud , such as music from Apple Music or iTunes Match , to your iPhone before you can sync it with the Watch . ( B ) <URL> Pair Bluetooth headphones with your Apple Watch To listen to music on your Apple Watch , you 'll need to connect to Bluetooth headphones : Put your Bluetooth headphones in pairing mode using the instructions that came with them . You might need to enter a passkey or PIN ( Personal Identification Number ) . On your Apple Watch , go to Settings > Bluetooth . Your Apple Watch will search for nearby Bluetooth devices . Choose your Bluetooth headphones and enter a passkey or PIN if asked . Listen to the playlist on your Apple Watch After pairing your headphones , you can listen to your synced playlist without an iPhone : From the Home screen on your Apple Watch , tap the Music app . Force Touch , then tap Source > Apple Watch . Tap play to listen to your playlist . <URL>
The upgrade does keep all emails , but the new mail program will reprocess and reindex and move the actual files . IF there is corruption in the filed or database on your computer now , an upgrade is when things get worse , so be sure to back up your Mac before the upgrade . That way , no matter what happens with the script , you could wipe and go back to the way things were or investigate your follow on question of how to export or make the mails portable in general as opposed to trusting the upgrade does what is intended .
It sounds like there 's a little confusion . Let me elaborate a little bit ... I used to be a Senior Advisor for Apple and this was by far the most common call . First , migrating to a new Apple ID can be difficult , but you can do it . To make sure all future purchases ask for your new Apple ID , go to Settings > iTunes &amp; App Store and then select your Apple ID . Is this your new one or your old one ? If it 's your old one , tap " Sign Out " and try signing in with your new one . All future purchases should then prompt you for your new Apple ID and password . However , keep in mind that any apps that you 've already downloaded with your old Apple ID will prompt you for that old Apple ID and password when the apps need to be updated . ( This is what everyone else is talking about ) . In order to never see or think about that old Apple ID again , you 'll need to delete those apps over time and re-purchase them on your new Apple ID . Second , it is imperative that you understand what email addresses are and are n't associated with each Apple ID . To check this out , go to id.apple.com and sign in to each of them . It is possible to have multiple emails associated with an Apple ID . It is also possible to have an " alternate Apple ID , " which basically means you can use either to sign in . One more thing -- with the announcement of iOS 8 , Apple IDs can be conjoined or paired using Family Sharing . It may just be more confusing , but check out the synopsis on Apple 's website <URL> .
Just to add to the good data already available , <URL> from a free , " who buys the next round " app , which may be a bit more representative than Instapaper : While not quite as high as the percentage of Instapaper users , more than 95 % on iOS 4 suggests you wo n't be missing out on a big number of users .
Yes , without a doubt . Unlike with the new ability to update only changes to the OS with iOS 5 delta updates , downgrading your OS will require you to restore the phone . Which essentially reformats the drive .
You should be able to point the installer at Time Machine during setup . This will make the OS you have on there now largely irrelevant . Just ensure your drive is USB attached , and hold option ⌥ down as you boot , select your installer CD for Snow Leopard , and do it from there . The following <URL> should help Restoring your entire system from a backup If you are restoring a backup made by a Mac to the same Mac With your backup drive connected , start up your Mac from the Lion recovery partition ( Command-R at startup ) or Mac OS X v10 .6 installation disc . Then use the " Restore From Time Machine Backup " utility . Note : If " You ca n't restore this backup because it was created by a different model of Mac " appears when restoring a backup that was made on a different Mac , follow the onscreen instructions .
From Apple website : You can begin using Swift code immediately to implement new features in your app , or enhance existing ones . New Swift code co-exists along side your existing Objective-C files in the same project , making it easy to adopt . And when iOS 8 and OS X Yosemite are released this fall , you can submit your apps to the App Store and Mac App Store . ref : <URL>
Yes . ( It 's a " world iPad " for both the AT&amp;T and Verizon model . ) Whether a device functions worldwide for a specific wireless standard depends on the frequency bands that it supports . E.g. . The new iPad supports LTE , but only the frequency bands 700 MHz and 2100 MHz which are not used outside the US . The <URL> has been called a world phone , because it supports all the frequency band used for GSM <URL> : 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz The <URL> supports the same GSM frequency bands for both the AT&amp;T and Verizon model . Therefore it 's a " world iPad " . Of course you need a SIM-tray , to make use of this . Like the iPhone , the iPad has a Micro-SIM card tray .
Erasing All Contents and Settings ( what most people call " factory reset " ) does not change/remove your operating system . Whatever OS you had installed prior to the reset will remain after your iPhone reboots .
At an educated guess , I would say the following is happening : Exchange is designed to push - and the exchange server is no doubt pushing to Apple servers - regardless of whether you have push enabled on the iPad or not , it 's just how it works . When you connect to the Apple store , you connect to the Apple notification server ( or renew your connection to it ) and in doing so pick up any mail that has n't been collected from the exchange server yet . I would imagine the same would happen with other push notifications as they pass to the Apple server whether they are enabled on your iPad or not . What would be interesting to test is whether this happens with a conventionally configured Gmail account - which would probably shed more light on what is happening .
It might be placed there when an Apple employee decides to feature it .
You can easily check the model of the device using information found in Settings > General > About and a simple Google search . . Open the Settings app and select General . From the General * pane select * About . Scroll down in the About pane until you find the Model . Type the model number into a Google search box . That should be sufficient , but you can add additional search terms like Apple or iPod Touch if need be .
Icons are definitely not freely copy-able . Apps in the App Store still enjoy the copyright protections afforded under intellectual property laws in your region . If you 've found an app with icons that you 're smitten with try contacting the developer about it . Often developers will purchase icon sets from icon factories like iconarchive.com ( link omitted on purpose ) . These icon sets are licensed to you , for use in your applications , and come with the necessary license to allow you to redistribute and profit off any product that includes them . You can find free and paid-for icon sets out there . The developer might be forthcoming if they purchased their icons from a factory . If the developer has designed the icons on their own they may choose to license them to you or they may say no . In which case : respect their wishes or you may find yourself on the receiving end of a cease-and-desist letter that prevents you from selling or giving away your app to the masses .
With the latest update to Mountain Lion I am now able to fix the issue with ease . Now you can double-click a partially downloaded program to throw away all the currently downloaded parts and start over . This only starts working once the computer thinks it has stopped . I 'm guessing there is some hidden timeout value that needs to be exceeded to enable this feature . In one case ( ClamXav ) I had to reboot to get Mountain Lion to recognize that it was n't downloading any longer . Double-click still worked to restart the download .
end question
start question
Dual monitor on Macbook Pro Retina : difference between 13 and 15 inches ?
<URL> says the 13 " Retina Macbook Pro will happily run with two Thunderbolt displays . Although I have not used it first hand , I would not expect you to have performance issues running the two extra displays . The main retina display is actually drawing 4 times as many pixels as the external displays , and then scaling the image down , so a Thunderbolt display is not going to make much of a difference . As to the scrolling performance , I believe that was <URL>
Actually , the Apple Music membership page says that service brings your iTunes library to iCloud , too It does say Apple Music and iTunes Match are " independent but complementary , " but I think I 'm like you -- I ca n't figure out why I 'd want iTunes Match if I 'm paying for Apple Music . The only benefit of Match is the $ 2 a month price point over the $ 10 a month price point . Music appears to do everything Match did but better and more and is priced accordingly .
You have to decide what you want in terms of storage , performance and OS since there is no option to have 2x1TB drives in the $ 799 model and there 's no option to have a 1TB Fusion Drive in the $ 999 model . Essentially , you 're paying $ 200 more to get OS X Server and for the ability to have a second hard drive ( doing it yourself is an option if you can follow guides on iFixit and have the tools and accessories required ) . Choose the $ 799 model with : A 1TB Fusion Drive - $ 250 OS X Server - $ 19.99 Total : $ 1068.99 ( but you 'll have a faster drive but half the storage space of the default $ 999 model ) . Choose the $ 799 model with the default 1TB drive : add another 1TB 2.5 " 5400 rpm drive - about $ 80 + ( approximate cost from newegg ) OS X Server - $ 19.99 The <URL> - $ 49.95 Total : $ 948.94 Hassle of doing it yourself : Priceless
I believe I figured out the difference : Dragging : Double tap and hold to begin dragging . Release the mouse . Depending on the amount of time that has passed , moving the mouse will do one of the following : Brief delay : moving the mouse continues the dragging , essentially behaving the exact same way as drag lock . The cycle is then repeated once you release your finger . Longer delay : dragging is stopped . Dragging &amp; Drag Lock : Double tap and hold to begin dragging . Release the mouse . Moving the mouse will continue dragging . Tap once to stop the dragging . It 's that brief delay that was throwing me off . There does n't seem to be any way to customize the length of this delay . One thing that does help , though , is figuring out exactly how long this delay is . One method for figuring this out is the following : Drag an icon from the dock a tiny bit so that if you were to release it , it would n't be deleted . Release the mouse . Observe how long it takes for the icon to move back to its place . That is the exact amount of minimum time that you should wait when you are finished dragging something .
First off , make sure you 've run AAM to update all components to latest : What happens when you set your displays to mirror ( command-F1 ) , launch Bridge , then revert back to extended ?
I bought the adapter from Apple to get the HDMI output from my MBP ( same as yours ) . You can visit the Apple Store for the adapters - I bought one of each adapter available , as I wanted to be prepared for whatever need I came across . The Thunderbolt port is to be used with the adapters . I also both several different lengths of HDMI cables . My TV has several HDMI input ports . The MBP automatically recognizes the TV as another monitor , so the only effort left is to get the TV setup to use that HDMI port as the Source .
Usually when Apple says " SSD " they refer to a removable/upgradeable solid-state ( flash ) storage device . The MBP with Retina Display ( and the MacBook Airs ) are also using solid-state storage , but they are non-removable . See also : <URL>
rEFIt is the best way to allow dual-booting on a Mac . I use it to boot Ubuntu from a partition on my external drive , and it works perfectly . Be sure to back up your hard drive before proceeding . Install rEFIt and make sure it is working ( you should get a boot chooser on startup ) Use Bootcamp or Disk Utility to create a partition at the end of the disc . Do n't worry about what format , just make it the size you want for Ubuntu and your swap partition . If you you are using OS X Lion which comes with Bootcamp 4.0 you will need to use the Disk Utility . Boot Camp 4.0 will only allow you to resize if you provide a Windows 7 installation disk . Boot the Ubuntu desktop CD , and select " Try Ubuntu . Start the partition editor ( gparted ) under System - > Adminstration . Use gparted to delete the partition you just made in OS X . It should be the last partition on the disc and follows after the HFS + partition ( OS X ) . Deleting it will leave an area called unallocated . This is free space , and exactly what you want . Use gparted to manually partition the space on your drive for Ubuntu . First create a SWAP area of about 1GB . Then the rest of the unallocated area format as EXT4 . Apply changes and take note the label of the EXT4 partition such as / dev/sda3 . Start the Ubuntu Installer from the desktop icon . When prompted , choose to manually partition . Select the EXT4 partition and click change . Select to use the space as EXT4 and root ( / ) as the mount point . You will also want to check the box to format the partition . Reboot when done with the install , and in the rEFIt menu , choose the partition tool . It will attempt to sync the partition tables on your disk . Then SHUTDOWN the computer ( not reboot ) , and start it again . You should be able to boot to Ubuntu now . If it seems to freeze on the tux logo , completely shutdown again and try one more time . This is a summary of a process described by the detailed how-to process here : <URL>
Badges are the little numbered icons , like the one that appears on the Mail and SMS apps when you have new messages . Alerts are popup messages like this :
Just managed to upgrade my Late 2012 Retina Macbook Pro using a Samsung mSATA 512GB SSD and an 7 +17 pin adapter like this one : <URL> WORKS ! PS . Use " sudo trimforce enable " in the Terminal , to get trim and full speed . PS1 . Newer Retina Macbook Pros use the 18 +8 pin adapter like this one ( do n't know if they fit , late-2012 Retinas have a lot of room unlike the newer models ) : <URL>
There 's no difference besides the storage capacity . As the iPhone does not have an option to extend the memory after purchase , you have to choose the right amount of storage right from the beginning . You can always manage how much space you use by manually choosing which data to sync ( music , photos , movies , apps ) . Generally more available space gives you the freedom of not having to manage your sync settings too much . 16GB should be fine for most people , especially if they are willing to make compromises regarding sync settings . 32GB is good if your like to take lots of photos or have a large music library . 64GB is good if you record HD movies which increase in size very quickly the longer you record .
From EveryMac ... This model supports a simultaneous maximum resolution up to 2560x1600 on two external displays via Thunderbolt . Alternately , it can support a single display up to 2560x1600 via Thunderbolt and a single 1080p display at up to 60 Hz , 3840x2160 at 30 Hz , or 4096x2160 at 24 Hz via HDMI . If you have 2 Thunderbolt ports , you can use 2 miniDP to Display Port cables , one from each port , just as though the ports were miniDP as they are backwardly-compatible . See <URL>
Comparison of Mac Mini and Mac Mini Server ( as of <URL> ) Processor : Server : Quad core i7 Mac Mini : Dual core i5 The base model of the Mac Mini does not support AES-NI which is recommended when using FileVault 2 . Graphics : Server edition and Mac Mini base model : integrated HD Graphics 3000 High end Mac Mini : dedicated graphics , AMD Radeon HD 6630M with GDDR5 Note : This is very recommended for Lion on large external displays . The integrated HD Graphics 3000 do <URL> in Lion as of 10.7.3 - even on my 15 '' MBP . Hard drive : Server : 2 x 500GB at 7400rpm Mac Mini : 1 x 500GB at 5400rpm - and thus quieter Optical Drive : Server : none Mac Mini : none Weight : The server edition weights 0.3 pounds more . Video , Audio , Network , Dimensions : same
You will need the same type of headset that you use with an iPhone . It will have one 3.5 mm plug that carries both the stereo audio and mic input ( aka a TRRS plug ) . Some examples are apple 's own <URL> , Sennheiser 's PX 200-II i 's , and any other iPhone headset .
The only difference between those two categories is how iTunes groups things by default . In the Movies view , there 's not grouping . All movies are displayed alphabetically by default . In the TV Show view things are grouped by show -- so you get a single icon for each show and you drill down to access the episodes within the show .
As you noted , the M8 coprocessor is able to collect data from the new barometer in the iPhone 6 series phones as well as the iPad Air 2 , which provides a measure of relative elevation for floors climbed . We may also speculate that it is more accurate and power-efficient , although whether accuracy improvements are up to the sensors or the M8 is hard to prove ( software improvements would also come into play here , as CoreMotion attaches a value to measurements , which could be tweaked in software ) . However , Phil Schiller raised another point during his presentation that many people seem to have missed : the M8 chip is now also able to recognize cycling activities . This new capability is reflected in the updated CoreMotion API , as detailed here : <URL> The M7 only recognized , , , , and . The M8 adds the property to the list . It is worth mentioning that iOS 8 does not make use of this functionality , and that the iPhone 6 does not write cycling data to the Health app on its own . You will need a dedicated app for that .
You should be able to do this by choosing the monitor on which the menu bar is active . Try - System Settings - > Displays - > Arrangement and drag the little white bar to the monitor where you want the notifications to show up .
You can . All you need is an app such as <URL> .
Apple iMac and MacBook Pro models did not have UEFI firmware and the ability to boot Windows installers from USB flash drives until the 2012 model year . Your firmware does not have the ability to boot from a USB flash drive Windows installer . You should install Windows using your DVD drive . If you no longer have a DVD drive , you may still be able to install using the Windows 8 iso file . This have been done successfully using Windows 7 on a 2010 15 " macbook pro ( MBP6 ,1 ) . If you wish , I could update the procedure for Windows 8 . ( Or are you installing 8.1 ? ) . Anyway , go <URL> for more information . To install directly using the GPT partitioning table is only recommended if your computer has a UEFI . Your model does not . Most people who succeeded usually have a problems with one or more drives not working properly . There is no advantage in trying . Installing using the MBR partitioning table will work without any problems . You do n't have to use BootCamp . Most who don , ' t , want something different than the default ; such as an extra NTFS or ExFat partition . The procedure depends on what you have in mind . Updated Procedure for Installing Windows 8.1 Using VirtualBox The original steps are posted <URL> . Steps 1-14 . No change Steps 15-17 . Substitute Windows 8.1 for Windows 7 . Step 18 . No change Step 19 . Images slightly different , but not worth updating . Step 20 . The rest the virtual machine installation will be repeated again after booting Windows on the physical machine . For most questions , you can use the default answers . Use the provided answers below when the following windows first appear . When asked a second time , you can provide your own answers . ( Hint : For a better view , click on the image or open in a new window . ) When the following window appears , enter a name for the computer . You will enter this same name later . I used the name Shark . Choose any name you like . <URL> When the window below appears , choose Customize . <URL> VirtualBox creates a virtual Public network for your virtual machine . Therefore I would click on " No " in the window shown below . <URL> To be safe , I would not let any updates download or install until after the Boot Camp Support Software ( the drivers ) is installed . Therefore , when the window below appears , I would choose " Do n't set up Windows Update ( not recommended ) " . <URL> When the window below appears , choose " Create a new account " . <URL> Select " Sign in without a Microsoft account " , when the window below appears . <URL> Enter a temporary user name , password and password hint , in the window shown below . You can delete or disable this account later . <URL> Step 21 . Replace From the Start Menu , select " Computer " to open a window containing the hard disk drives and devices with removable storage . with Right click on the Start Menu and select " File Explorer " to open a window containing the devices and drives . The first image will be slightly different . Replace Select " Start Menu → All Programs → Accessories " , then right click on " Command Prompt " and select " Run as administrator " , as shown in the image below . with Right click on the Start Menu and select " Command Prompt ( Admin ) " . Disregard the second image . The Desktop shown in the third image will be different . Step 22 . Replace Windows Explorer with File Explorer . Step 23 . Same instructions . Replace image with the following . This step takes a long time to complete . <URL> Step 24-26 . No changes .
I 've been monitoring my fan speeds for as long as I 've had my device . At idle , the lowest it gets is hovering around 2000rpm . The left fan is usually closer to 2100rpm , actually . The maximum speed appears to be 6000rpm , which occurs during gaming and heavy CPU loads . <URL> lets you monitor and control your fan speeds . The minimum setting is 2000rpm and the max is 6000rpm , so I think we can safely conclude that these are the standard maximum and minimum values .
end question
start question
Upgrading from iPad 1 to iPad Air - restoring individual app data ?
You can backup data from apps with a program such as <URL> ( Mac ) or <URL> ( Mac &amp; Windows ) , and restore the data individually per app . Browse , manage and download most any data saved by App Store apps from your iPhone , iPad or iPod Touch . If you 're looking for a quick way to download saved recordings , videos or images from your apps , this is it . Even transfer game high scores between devices . -- PhoneView Open the app in PhoneView or iFunBox , and copy the folders out , then copy them to your new device .
You can delete videos from the Videos app by tapping and holding on the thumbnail , then pressing the red X that appears in the corner ( just like deleting apps from your home screen ) . To delete audio podcasts , find them in the Music app , swipe your finger across the name of the podcast ( or episode ) and press the delete button . ( The same way you would with emails . )
This process assumes that iCloud is not enabled . It is possible to update apps on the device without doing so in iTunes . For this to work you will need to have enabled automatic downloads . If you sync your iPad with iTunes without transfering purchases you coukld end up with older apps and losing the updates . With iCloud there is no need for you to sync with iTunes , so if a device is plugged in iTunes would assume that you do not use iCloud and will transfer all the updated apps to the computer . All in all it is more of a safety precaution if you are already using iCloud .
When you 're on the Google Images page scroll all the way to the bottom . There is a choice there to use either Google Tablet or Classic ( defaults to tablet on the iPad ) . Click on classic and you should get the same options as on your mac/pc .
The answer is yes and no . What happens quite easily after a restore ( for example after an update ) is that iTunes restores the save data for all applications , but not the applications themselves . Therefore as soon as you install them , the old save games will be available ( this applies to all apps , not just games ) . Just by itself nothing will be saved without backup . BUT : If the application supports iCloud sync and stores it 's data in iCloud ( which has to be explicitly supported ) , your data will be still available after deleting and reinstalling the app . In short : You should be really careful and unless you 're absolutely sure the application in question does support iCloud for your saved data , do n't delete it without backup .
You may want to give <URL> a try or <URL> . Both work on iPad with instructions <URL> and <URL> .
I ca n't speak about the iPad specifically , but I 've used 3G through Verizon as my primary Internet connection for about 4 years . Ii actually started out as 1xRTT , but the cell tower were upgraded . My choices are either 3G , satellite ( line-of-site to the satellite may be a problem ) , or dialup . The joys of country living . I have n't had any problems with it . Some things are slow : PS3 updates , large downloads , etc. , but its fine for email , web browsing , etc. . My account is old enough that its does n't have download limits . I think I hit 7GB last month .
If you want it right now , why not plug the phone into the Mac &amp; use Image Capture , in the Applications folder - which is the importer ' behind ' Photos.app . You can also set it to auto-launch any capable app , including itself , when a device is connected [ or do nothing ] &amp; set exactly where your imports should be saved . You can also dictate whether it should auto-delete from the device afterwards , or alternatively you can manually delete any selected pictures . <URL>
No you ca n't initiate a backup remotely , but you could log into iCloud on another device or a computer and look to see when the last iCloud backup of that device was completed to know what might be lost if you erase it . Also look in iTunes under the preferences for devices to see if you have a local backup of the device as well . On the iCloud preference pane for Mac , you can press the manage button next to the storage graph at the bottom of the window and inspect the date/time of the last backup for each device you have established .
Open the Mac App Store ( / Applications/App Store.app ) Download the OS X Mavericks app . Run it from the / Applications folder if it does n't automatically run . Follow the instructions .
Back up your iPad with iTunes . Back up that hard drive . Unplug that backup and store it far away from any internet connection . If you do update Sykpe by mistake , restore the iPad from the backup . It wo n't keep Skype from updating , but it will preserve your ability to undo the update .
Addressing your query head on - several US carriers have very nice planning tools : <URL> <URL> Both are quite close to what I 'm seeing for my usage patterns ( one calculates 2.5 GB and the other 3.15 GB ) in practice . I would say to take these with a grain of salt since with iOS 7 - you now have exceptionally good information on exactly which app used exactly how much data . That coupled with automatic data alerts that you can configure from the carrier to alert you at whatever levels you want , you can easily shut off parts of cellular data ( or all cellular data ) to shape your usage without having to downgrade your cellular service . In effect , iOS 7 makes it easy to steer your usage to fit your budget if and when you find yourself using more data than planned . Also , in the US - you are not locked into any level of data as the service is month to month . I often have months where I tether 2 or 4 GB extra data for business reasons . I have a shared data plan between my phone and iPad so a quick online session upgrades that month to the next higher tier of data . I set an alarm to undo that change at the end of my bill cycle and there are no fees to increase and decrease - just fees for the data ( and overage should you go there for a month ) . For me , the extra $ 10 for a month is far less than the overage of $ 15 per GB and simpler for me to manage when bursts or overages happen ( I 'm looking at you iTunes match streaming all night on an iPad while in my bag with the smart cover closed : /
Tricky one , but you can rig up a solution - I 'm not sure about the final quality though . First , you need to allow your iPad to use AirPlay Mirroring with your iMac as the target device . To do this , you need to use a program like <URL> ( $ 15 for a single user license ) or <URL> ( $ 15 again , but has a trial at least ) or <URL> ( Free , but not as fully featured ) or <URL> ( Similarly beta ) . Mountain Lion will have this feature built in , potentially . When this installed , check you can get it to work - so ensure the iPad and iMac are on the same wireless network , and turn on Airplay Mirroring , pointing it at the correct host : You should get a window displaying the contents on your Mac . Note , than even if you are using the top of the line iMac , the resolution of the iPad will still be too large to view without scaling , so expect some downscaling , either by the airplay protocol or the receiving app anyway , simply to ensure it fits on your screen . Given a choice , a neat halving to get the original 1024x768 resolution should suffice . The method of doing this will be different depending on which app you end up using . Once you have a window running with out iPad screen in it , you can capture it with Quicktime . I note that you already use ScreenFlow ( which I missed at first ) , so you can do this your own way , but for everyone else you can do it with build in tools like Quicktime . I am going to assume you are on Lion . Open up Quicktime Player , and go Hit the big red recording button , and you get the message Drag a neat square over your Airplay receiving window , adjusting as required to get a neat fit , then hit the record button in the middle , and do your stuff . CAVEAT : Lots of things can affect quality using this method . Your wireless network may be slow , resulting in dropped frames or lag when recording . Your computer may be slow , or busy , resulting in dropped frames etc etc etc. . Quicktime ( if you use it ) is already by definition recording a compressed video , not raw , and it 's using an image source on your screen that is already displaying a video that has been compressed down from Retina resolution to something saner for desktop use . This method works , but the resulting video quality can vary wildly depending on your setup . You can mitigate to an extent with thoughtful configuration of your network and so on , or by using more expensive screen capture solutions that record raw etc , that but is up to you to decide how much quality you need . As it stands , the test video I put up was more than sufficient to be perfectly pleasant on YouTube . Now , time to own up , I can not get it to work with the free versions on offer , but I have in the past , so I 'm throwing the solution up anyway , in case it 's just me being stupid . I have used the trial version ( limited to 10 minutes ) of Reflector though , and created the following video as an example , proving it can be done , but you may need to cough up for paid software to do so : <URL> EDIT : Since this answer was accepted , many of the software solutions listed have included screen recording directly within the airdisplay software , negating the need to arrange a separate quicktime screen recording , and potentially improving quality .
As @jaume has mentioned , you can use the Mac App Store Preview on Apple 's Website to browser apps from the Mac App Store . The same exists for iOS apps and is labeled as iTunes Preview . As you will have already noticed , the search box on Apple 's website is not very helpful when searching for Apps . The best alternative I can think of uses a google query . In the Google search box type : <URL> ... which uses the URL : Copy and paste the URL Add your keyword to the end ( separate multiple keywords by )
iOS 4.0 supports a very rapid secure erase called " Data Protection " . If you upgrade from 3.0 you need to do a restore to set the stage for hardware encryption of all the data . If your device is n't capable of hardware encryption ( often called secure data at rest ) , then you can use the Erase all content and settings function . This <URL> has been around since iPhone OS 2.0 As this does n't work the same way on all iOS devices , do read <URL> before you depend on this to clear data securely . Once you are through erasing the device , you might want to connect it to a clean iTunes library and restore the device and set it up as new . Making a new account on your Mac or PC is an easy way to have a library with no account , no songs , and no apps just to be sure the device has a clean ( and easily verifiable ) start to it 's new life .
Sync your iPod Touch configuration back to iTunes and then sync your iPad with iTunes ! For syncing your iPod configuratuon you must only connect it with iTunes . Every time it will be created a backup of the device . After that you connect your iPad ( which has been restored to default factory ) with iTunes . Then you can do the following steps which are described on the <URL> ( Restoring your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch ) .
I believe this depends on they way the App is set up . If an app backs up its data on iCloud then it will not be able to retrieve it as each Apple ID has separate iCloud storage space . On the other hand if the app uses its own server for syncing ( and you use the same login details ) I would imagine it will restore data appropriately . However purchases made with one Apple ID are not available to another Apple ID . I am not sure if Apple offer transferring purchases but I guess you could contact them to see it they could do so for you . 1 ) I do n't think changing Apple ID will cause any data loss . I switch between two and never had any issues ( I would however check with Apple ) 2 ) Yes , but you might have to download them first if not already on the iPad . 3 ) This could happen as the apps will have to be updated and since iOS5 most apps have heavily changed both visually and the way they work with say iCloud . 4 ) As stated in ( 1 ) I do n't believe you should loose any data but you can only have one Apple ID active at a time . Make sure you take a full backup on your computer before making any big updates like moving to iOS7 from iOS5 .
The tick mark does n't mean that you 've added them to the To field -- it just means that you 've narrowed down the list of contacts to that group . When you tap the + button to add to the To field , by default it shows All Contacts . Pressing Groups lets you narrow down this list to that specific group , but you still need to select the people that you want to send the email to . Tap them in the list ( and select their email if necessary ) to add them to the To field .
No , not straight from the iPad . The Camera Roll is like a smart folder : it contains all items that were stored as pictures on the iPad from apps . You ca n't move pictures from there to another album , just like you ca n't move songs from the iTunes library to playlist . However , if you import the pictures on your computer , then delete it from the iPad ( you did n't specify your OS there , but assuming Mac OS X : with iPhoto , it simply asks you whether you 'd like to do so after the import is over ) , syncing the pictures that were in the Camera Roll back onto the iPad will make them appear only in the albums you 've configured on your computer , not in the Roll anymore ( since they were not added from the iPad ) .
Whilst the device hardware does support Wi-Fi Direct , the limitation in this case is software . There is currently no software on iOS that connects to a wireless hard drive through Wi-Fi Direct , but that has n't stopped apps being developed to take advantage of this -- Seagate has an app that connects to wireless hard drives : <URL>
end question
start question
How can I show Growl notifications on both displays ?
Currently there is no way to accomplish this . The Growl mailing lists <URL> allowing Growl to always place the notification on the display that you have a window focused in . For example , you have 3 displays , oriented in a horizontal line , and you 're doing some file management on the far-left display and web browsing on the far right . If Finder has focus , the notification will be shown on the far-left display , if Safari/Chrome/Firefox / $ BROWSER has focus , the notification will be shown on the far-right display . But this feature has not yet been implemented , so you are limited to explicitly configuring Growl to send notifications to a single display . This feature has been written up on their Google Code Project page , so you can star <URL> in order to receive further notifications . Note that you can star it on an issue detail page by clicking the star outline to the left of the title " Issue 122 : [ ... ] " , or at the bottom of the page just above the comment box . After clicking the star in either location , it will turn yellow and have a thicker blue outline , that means you 've subscribed , and in essence , " voted " for the feature .
At first , I thought there would be a straight-forward , albeit hidden , solution . However , after doing some digging , it seems that something that should be a simple swipe or click to do is more complicated than that . This is going to be a little long , but hopefully will be incredibly helpful . I was going to post this earlier today , but did not get the chance to make this whole post until tonight . Boxcar From what I 've seen , <URL> is one of the best ways to get push notifications for tracking hashtag mentions . Both the iOS app and the web client allow a user to add a varying amount of sources to get information from . Twitter , email , RSS feeds , etc. can all be collected into Boxcar and keep track of all of your updates . Boxcar is not made specifically for what you are trying to do but the iOS app has the option of adding filters , where a group of sources can be viewed as one folder and have a key phrase that is picked out from all the sources to create a push alert . What I did in Boxcar that worked was create an RSS feed using Queryfeed.net to generate an RSS feed for the term #hashtag . Queryfeed is extremely useful for this because Queryfeed can create an RSS feed for Twitter , Google + , and Facebook using specific search terms . After adding all the sources that you may want ( Twitter accounts , RSS feeds , etc. ) you can create a filter in the iOS app where you can select which sources you want in the feed , as well as other settings for updates . There is a lot of customization that a Boxcar user can do , especially in tracking certain hashtags or trends . It is a little more work than some may want to put in and it is not problem free ( in my experiments with Boxcar today there was definitely a lag in getting RSS updates at first , and the web client and iOS app are not exactly intuitive in their own unique ways ) but it definitely does allow someone to track and receive alerts for specific hashtags . IFTTT There is another option that I wo n't delve into as much as I did Boxcar simply because in my experience , it is a little more finicky . <URL> is an app that operates in If-Then statements . An example they use on their about page is as follows : if I post a picture to Instagram , then save that photo to Dropbox . " If " s are called triggers ( in this case , the mention of #hashtag on Twitter ) , and " then " s are called actions ( getting an iOS push notification when a tweet is made using #hashtag ) . Combined , triggers and actions make Recipes . A Recipe connects Channels ( the channels you would want to use are Twitter and iOS Notifications ) . In essence , IFTTT links one application 's actions to get a reaction from another . While the user interface is a bit easier than Boxcar , IFTTT Recipes are one trigger , one action . You can not , for example , have a feed like in Boxcar that searches for a specific term across multiple platforms , like finding the use of #hashtag in Facebook as well as Twitter . My ( limited ) personal experience with IFTTT is that occasionally Recipes do n't want to work and I did not have the patience to figure out why . However , IFTTT is supported in Boxcar , so trying both and seeing which works best for you wo n't be much of a hassle .
You can right-click ( control-click ) on the folder name in the Titlebar of the Finder window and select a parent folder and or you can expose the Path Bar in Finder ( View > Show Path Bar ) and select a parent folder from there . Also from the Sidebar you can right-click ( control-click ) on the Favorites name and select Open Enclosing Folder , although this opens another Finder window whereas the previous suggestions stay within the same Finder window . Additionally one should become familiar with the keyboard shortcuts of Finder which one can see shown on each menu in Finder , particularly the Go menu . Like , Command -- Up Arrow as mentioned by Ivan Chau in the OP comments . Note : See Finder shortcuts in : <URL>
You 're talking about the notification settings for Mail , not whether push is on . To see new mail messages in the Lock Screen : Settings > Notifications > Mail > Make sure " View in Lock Screen " is turned ON . If you 're concerned about your mail 's push settings , those are in : Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendar > Fetch New Data > Make sure " Push " is set how you want it .
The monitor used dual-link DVI . I was able to get it working using this adapter , and it now displays up to 2560 x 1600 : <URL>
I 've needed to goto my Google Contacts and add the person to the built-in " My Contacts " group . I have n't found the " My Contacts " option in the preview of Google 's updated ( for 2015 ) Contacts preview . <URL>
Can I have both a case-insensitive system volume and a case-sensitive volume within an encrypted CoreStorage volume ? Core Storage : can not create a volume within a volume can create a logical volume ( LV ) within a logical volume group ( LVG ) . ... to keep the main system volume case-insensitive ... That 's reasonable . ... to have my home dir be case-sensitive ... Maybe desirable , but please beware : some software for OS X may not work as expected in that environment . I thought first of Adobe , found examples from 2012 and 2013 : <URL> <URL> An example -- OS X 10.9.5 , Mavericks I used Disk Utility to create two partitions from a USB flash drive ( at at the time ) , then erased each of the unencrypted file systems -- and opted to encrypt . For both encryptions I chose the same passphrase that is used to encrypt the FileVault 2 OS X startup volume . The relevant part of output from : Limitations I rebooted the Mac to check whether either logical volume family ( LVF ) was automatically unlocked before loginwindow is launched by launchd . As expected , no automation of that sort . Issues With Mavericks I can find no way to create more than one LV within an LVF . The following articles state that it 's possible to do so : <URL> ( 2011-08-05 ) <URL> ( 2011-08-14 ) <URL> ( 2013-02-25 ) In the Franke article it 's remarkable that the same UUID is used to both ( a ) shrink an existing LV ; and ( b ) create another LV in the same LVF . Unless I 'm missing something , this approach is impossible with Mavericks . For example : Assuming a bug in Core Storage in Mavericks We should review this answer -- maybe add another -- after Yosemite is released . ( I should not expect a fix in Mavericks . )
I personally prefer using Web Sharing and installing only MySQL Server , just to stick with the Mac OS X Apache setup . Web sharing has support for PHP , all you need to do is remove the comment ( # ) from the following line of the file / etc/apache2/httpd . conf : So it becomes : The PHP module includes MySQL support , so you just need to install the MySQL Server , turn it on and then you are ready to go . After turning Web Sharing on , put your . php files inside your personal Site folder , and access it on your browser using the address informed on the Web Sharing activation screen , inside Settings .
Right click ( or control + click ) on and adjacent column header letter . For example " Column D " . Then select Unhide from the dialog . <URL>
There are two options . One is a setting , and the other is a workaround . Here are instructions on how to toggle the setting using the Menu Bar : Go into the View menu . Select " Show status bar " . Now , there will be a URL that pops up when you hover over a link , and also tells you if it 's going to be in a new tab : <URL> You can also press ⌘ + / to toggle this setting at ease . The second option is a workaround for when you drag links . Here 's how to get this feature to appear : Click and drag the link out of where it will originally appear . At your mouse will be a small box telling you the title of the new window and its URL , although it may be shortened . You can also drag the link to the plus sign in your tab list , out of the window , or in a folder/the desktop to open that URL in a new tab , new window or save it to your computer , respectively .
There is an easy but non-obvious way to do this . Assuming you 've got Google sync set up , and you can see your one Google Calendar on your phone already , go to <URL> ( it needs the www ; it does n't have to be on your iPhone ) . You 'll see a list of devices you 're syncing . Select your iPhone . On the next screen , you can choose which of your Google Calendars you want to sync with your iPhone . Check the box next to the desired calendars , then hit Done or Save or whatever it says at the bottom . Open iCal on your iPhone , and give it a while to sync , and you now should see all of your selected Google Calendars on your iPhone . For some reason , you ca n't change the colors of the calendars on the iPhone , so I change the colors in Google Calendar to match what the iPhone picks . There used to be a limit of 5 Google Calendars that you could sync to the phone , but they recently raised the limit to 25 . These same instructions apply to the iPad and iPod touch . I 've got this set up on all my devices , and it works like a charm . This is documented by Google here : <URL>
From the article , <URL> : [ Originally posted on Neowin.net by giga on 04 April 2010 12:26 ] The <URL> clearly state the ability to charge with USB ( with no mention of OS requirements ) but Apple have additionally <URL> disclosing that " some USB 2.0 ports and accessories do not provide enough power to charge iPad . " <URL> , Apple asserts that USB charging is supported but that it varies according to the state of the iPad and the power output of the USB hub : For the fastest charging , use the iPad 's included 10-Watt USB power adapter . This will fully charge the iPad in a few hours , even if you 're using the iPad at the same time . When connected to a high-power USB port -- such as the ones on recent Macs and the iPhone Power Adapter -- the iPad will charge , even during use , but more slowly . ( We have n't yet determined how much more slowly . ) Some third-party powered USB hubs provide higher-power USB ports , but many do n't ; similarly , the USB ports on most Windows PCs do n't provide this additional power . When connected to lower-power USB ports -- those on older Macs , most Windows PCs , and most USB hubs ( powered or unpowered ) -- the iPad 's battery is not charged while the iPad is awake , but is charged ( again , slowly ) when the iPad is asleep . What 's confusing here is that the message " Not charging " appears in the menu bar when the iPad is awake , which might lead you to assume that the offending USB port can never charge your iPad . But rest assured , Apple says : once you put the iPad to sleep , the battery will indeed charge . ( If you could see the screen while the iPad was asleep , it might even display the charging icon . It 's the modern-day " Does the refrigerator light stay on when I close the door ? " mystery . ) Further analysis from Apple 's statements indicate that the iPad can only be charged off of USB connections that provide near 1 amp of current . The majority of USB ports on most older Macs and PCs only provide 500 mA and thus ca n't be used to charge the device . The USB 2.0 specification provides 500 mA of current to high-powered buses and 100 mA for low-powered buses . But in April 2009 , the specification gained a new " <URL> " which provided additional current to high power devices and it seems that Apple has started to incorporate it in their newer Macs .
You could make a screenshot of the photo by pressing the home button and power putton together . After this you can edit one of those photo 's
Yes - three 5K displays are supported on even the least GPU endowed Mac Pro Late 2013 . While I do not have the luxury of owning this kind of a setup , the following coming directly from Apple should answer this : <URL>
Background App Refresh allows apps to download information in the background under certain conditions . <URL> : After you switch to a different app , some apps run for a short period of time before they 're set to a suspended state . Apps that are in a suspended state are n't actively in use , open , or taking up system resources . With Background App Refresh , suspended apps can check for updates and new content . Notifications are pushed from the server to your device at the time of an event ( new email , message , whatever ) and are unrelated to Background App Refresh .
You basically need to have your macbook output to two displays , which it wo n't do easily/willingly . There are a couple hacks ... either doing the display output over USB or using a matrox display . See more info : <URL> One really hacky solution might be to output via air display to and iPad ( hooked up to a projector ) for the 2nd monitor . I 'll buy you a beer if you make that work . :-)
For what it 's worth , my iPod Touches ' ( 2g and 3g ) WiFi remains on when the screen is off , and I do get push notifications from various things ( in fact , as I was typing this I got one from Ambiance ) . If you go out of range of known networks and " Ask to join networks " is turned on in the WiFi settings , you of course wo n't get push notifications unless you turn the screen on and accept an open network . The Apple <URL> has a little more information , including how to control on a per-application basis what push notifications will work .
Currently there is no way to accomplish this . The Growl mailing lists <URL> allowing Growl to always place the notification on the display that you have a window focused in . For example , you have 3 displays , oriented in a horizontal line , and you 're doing some file management on the far-left display and web browsing on the far right . If Finder has focus , the notification will be shown on the far-left display , if Safari/Chrome/Firefox / $ BROWSER has focus , the notification will be shown on the far-right display . But this feature has not yet been implemented , so you are limited to explicitly configuring Growl to send notifications to a single display . This feature has been written up on their Google Code Project page , so you can star <URL> in order to receive further notifications . Note that you can star it on an issue detail page by clicking the star outline to the left of the title " Issue 122 : [ ... ] " , or at the bottom of the page just above the comment box . After clicking the star in either location , it will turn yellow and have a thicker blue outline , that means you 've subscribed , and in essence , " voted " for the feature .
To get the second window back , all you have to do is click the album artwork thumbnail in the Now Playing area , either in the full version : Or in the Mini Player Both will pop up the larger album art view you are looking for . In iTunes 11.0 , there currently is n't the sidebar album art view that used to be there .
No , not with the Promise Pegasus R4 has only two Thunderbolt ports . One you will need to connect to the MBA and then other to your miniDP adapter . You would need a Thunderbolt dock that has another Thunderbolt port or another video interface like HDMI , etc. . Something like this : <URL> , etc
end question
start question
How do I change the action for Force Click on a Force Touch trackpad ?
I found this tool called BetterTouchTool <URL> BetterTouchTool is a great , feature packed app that allows you to configure many gestures for your Magic Mouse , Macbook Trackpad and Magic Trackpad and also Mouse Gestures for normal mice . It also allows you to configure actions for keyboard shortcuts , normal mice buttons and the Apple Remote . In addition to this it has an iOS companion App ( BTT Remote ) which can also be configured to control your Mac the way you want . It allows me to set a HUGE variety of actions for TONS of mouse gestures . I am able to create actions for FORCE click on specific areas of the trackpad , and even multifinger force click . It is exactly what I 've been looking for . It is extremely useful .
I 've set a stylesheet in Safari and these are the changes that occurred in Safari 's plist : Your command line would be :
I posted about this on the Google Groups for iTerm2 . The program author has now added to the program the option to rotate clockwise .
Yeah you sure can ! Find the picture in the Photos app , press the menu button in the bottom left corner and press Use as Wallpaper .
External account settings can be found under Settings - > Mail , Contacts , Calendars - > Fetch New Data . Configure the frequency of synchronization on the bottom of the screen . It is possible to update in " real time " if " Push " is turned on , but this will have a negative impact on battery life .
You will need to edit the rEFIt configuration file . Since version 0.14 , the configuration file has supported adding a default boot selection , as documented in the <URL> . However , there is n't very clear documentation on how exactly to do this on rEFIt 's website . You could just open the conf file , or view the default on their SVN repo <URL> . This <URL> does have an example and some documentation that I 've used before in a similar situation . You 'll want to use the digit option instead of the OS type option ( 1-N , vs L , W , M ) .
You can find the option under Settings > Phone > SIM PIN .
I am not aware of a way to force the updating other than running the apps to see if they will update things as a matter of course . Some app developers store the achievements in a way that they flow back from the game center - but it 's more about how each developer chooses to use all the Game Center options . Look for a much better experience when iCloud allows developers to store more app data in the cloud so you do n't have to export/import and otherwise work to get your settings and loot to a new instance of the same app . An alternate tack is to dive into the library of each app using a tool like PhoneView . You do n't need to jailbreak the device - but often can find the folder where achievements are stored and you can put them back when they go missing .
For watchOS3 : Press and hold the Side Button Press and hold the Digital Crown For watchOS2 : When the app that you would like to terminate is open : Press and hold the Side Button and wait until the shut down screen appear . Then let go of the side button . Press and hold the Side button again until the home screen appears . Your formerly active app has now been terminated . PS : The Side Button is the button below the Digital Crown .
All you need is to open Terminal.app and type : That way the system will be forced to terminate all open programs , ignoring any unsaved file changes . So , in order to be able to launch it via the desktop , you need to open Applescript editor , and type : Save the script as an Application , and drag it in your Dock , or somewhere where you 'll find it instantly .
Change the default calendar to " last selected calendar " then clicking a calendar via the " Calendar " button pop-over will actually set the currently active calendar for new events .
In the network control panel , click the gear at the bottom of the interface list and select " Set Service Order ... " . In that dialog , you can move your WiFi above the ethernet display .
In your case , the problem is the file system on the drive as opposed to how it is connected to your Mac . The drive is most likely formatted as FAT32 system . This is a typical partitioning format that is supported by practically all computers ( windows , linux and mac os ) . FAT32 limits file sizes to 4GB and device sizes to 2TB ( or 16 TB for 4 KB sectors ) . For you to be able to store a file greater than 4GB in size , you 'd need to reformat the drive to either ExFAT ( file size is limited to 16EB , or 16 BILLION TB ) or a MacOS partition format ( called HFS plus , file size limited to 8EB , or 8 BILLION TB ) . I 'd recommend the MacOS partition format for it 's reliability , but only if you 're working in a strictly Mac OS environment . HFS plus is NOT supported by Windows . If you need to transfer files between computers of various OSs , I 'd recommend ExFAT . Note : Changing partition formats WILL DELETE ALL DATA ON THE DRIVE , so make sure you back up all the data on the drive before you start . Back up all your files on the USB drive onto a secure location on your Mac . Open Disk Utility by searching it in spot light or opening it from / Applications/Utilities Select your desired drive on the left side . Go to the " Erase " tab . Choose your desired partition format from the drop down menu , and name your drive as you please . Click " erase " Restore the files back to the drive .
There is unfortunately no way to do this on a situational basis . My suggestion would be to just set it to immediately and get used to entering in your passcode every time . It 'll be a habit before you know it !
What would happen if I were to force the Intel drivers for the Linux kernel into Mac OS X ? Would it work ? Would there be severe instability or data loss ? Is it even possible ? At best ? 100 % nothing . At worst ? Crash your whole system and make it unusable or even unbootable . While Mac OS X and Linux are both different " flavors " of Unix , you ca n't just grab parts from one OS and just install it into the other OS and expect them to work . That said , if there is source code for the driver somewhere , you could potentially compile them for Mac OS X using the Xcode suite of development tools . But that is one big if . The reality is compiling Linux application source code on a Mac OS X system from a Linux system is a crapshoot . Sometimes it works and you get to use nice Linux tools on a Mac OS X system . But sometimes it just wo n't work . And that is at the application level . On the driver level it 's even less plausible or doable ; and even if it was doable it would be difficult to do that at best . That said , <URL> . But note that the versions of Mac OS X referred to are Mac OS X 10.4 and 10.5 ; nothing more modern .
The current version of Google Chrome for Mac ( 14.0.835.202 ) is not correctly supporting this behavior , even when the System Preference to " Restore windows when quitting and re-opening apps " is selected in the General Preferences pane ( like the Mail app or Safari does ) . There is an open bug ticket on this issue with Google so at some point the " remember full screen state after close " should be resolved . Here is the bug report link : <URL>
You could create a text file , name it visited.css , and put this text in there : Then go to Preferences > Advanced , click Style sheet and select the . css file you just created . All links you 've visited should be in a nice purple now . ( Note that this colors every link you 've ever clicked purple , and will override the actual web design . )
You can think of inactive memory like free memory that 's been reserved for a recently closed application , but will be used when ' true ' free memory has been exhausted . If you have 1 GB of memory ( for the sake of making this discussion easier ) on a freshly booted system , imagine the OS uses 300 MB and you open an app that uses 200 MB . You now have a total of 500 MB used , and 500 free . If you close that app that was using 200 MB , the memory is marked inactive and you 'll now have 300 used ( OS ) , 200 inactive , and 500 free . If you open an app that requires 600 MB , it 'll use the free memory then pull from the inactive pool . You can free inactive memory by opening Terminal.app and typing ( without the $ ) : You can , also configure MySQL to use more memory but if you 're not having performance problems I 'd leave everything alone : <URL> <URL> For more information on inactive memory in OS X : <URL> ( search for " inactive memory " ) <URL> <URL> ( The last link might require an Apple developer account )
According to <URL> ... Also , to turn on/off shadow : And to change file type : You 'll want to to make the commands take effect .
I found this tool called BetterTouchTool <URL> BetterTouchTool is a great , feature packed app that allows you to configure many gestures for your Magic Mouse , Macbook Trackpad and Magic Trackpad and also Mouse Gestures for normal mice . It also allows you to configure actions for keyboard shortcuts , normal mice buttons and the Apple Remote . In addition to this it has an iOS companion App ( BTT Remote ) which can also be configured to control your Mac the way you want . It allows me to set a HUGE variety of actions for TONS of mouse gestures . I am able to create actions for FORCE click on specific areas of the trackpad , and even multifinger force click . It is exactly what I 've been looking for . It is extremely useful .
end question
start question
How can I synchronize contacts with Google ?
On your iPhone , you can <URL> , and enable Contacts synchronization . Assuming you 're on Mac OS X , you can also set up Google Synchronization with Address Book app and Contact synchronization with iTunes . I 've had issue with the former concerning the addresses , the city , postal code , etc. fields were n't correctly mapped . YMMV . On the plus side , the modification made to either Gmail or the iPhone are immediately applied to the other . The second works fine for me , the downside is that you have to connect your iPhone to your computer when you want to share the modifications you made to the contacts .
I believe by default it checks every ten minutes . To adjust the interval , click on the mail icon , then hold down the Command and Option keys and click on Preferences . A box will pop up asking for a key and value . Use as the key and type the number of minutes in the value box . Then click Set and you 're done . You need to restart it for the change to take effect . NOTE : is case-sensitive You can also do the following in Terminal Replace the above with a number to represent minutes between checks
Nike + is a step counter , so it 's measuring steps . With rollerblades you 're not stepping usually . You can try to calibrate your device with your moves of your rollerblades , but I do n't think it will measure it correctly .
Search with Google is a service provided by Safari and has nothing to do with Terminal . Google Chrome should provide its own service for this feature . It does n't . Or you can write your own , e.g. using Automator and AppleScript : Open Automator and select to create a new Service . At the top , select text and any application . Then , add a Run Shell Script action from the library to the workflow by drag &amp; drop or double-clicking . Change its input to as arguments , and paste the following script in its main text area : This will open the URL followed by your URL-escaped text selection in your default browser . Save as Search with Google in Default Browser and try again .
Found this on a forum today . Suppose a husband and wife want to share contacts . In , the husband adds his account . In it , he must sync contacts ; he can also sync whatever else he wants . In , the wife adds her account . In it , she can not sync contacts , but she can sync whatever else she wants . In , she adds her husband 's account . In it , the only thing she syncs is contacts . That 's it .
If they are using real Unicode emoji , you can not see them without the Apple Color Emoji font , which only works in 10.7 , or possibly by downloading and installing a black/white font that has them , like Symbola or Quivira . Unicode emoji were only standardized in October of 2010 and I think there are various apps which may not recognize them anyway . Here is Timothy 's test using the Symbola font in 10.6
OS updates will now happen over the air . The only reasons would be to sync a new iPhoto event/album or to sync content that you added manually ( ripped CD ) . But outside of that , iOS does n't require syncing .
You can use the <URL> app from the appstore to do this . The app costs $ 0.99 If you want a Mac only solution , you can backup the contacts in your mac 's Address Book , connect your phone to your mac and set it to sync only your address book in iTunes . Once it 's done syncing ( it should now be a clean slate ) , you can change the sync settings to whatever you wish and then restore your existing contacts from the backup .
There are more than a few options out there , but I would recommend <URL> . It 's a pretty powerful program that allows you do do all sorts of different scripting and macro tasks , as well as configure hot keys . I use it to make more advanced hot keys configurations than System Preferences can do , as well as run scripts , handle my extra mouse buttons ( I can configure them on a per-app basis without extra drivers ) . I suggest you download the trial and test it out . It will certainly do what you need , but you may find it useful for many other things . One thing I do suggest when you try it out is to disable all the default macros , as they can be a bit confusing and override default system behaviour . Then take some time to figure out what it can do and what will be useful .
The native Contacts and Phone apps do not support this in iOS . As a workaround , you could use a third party contacts manager which supports smart groups , creating " Has a phone number " and " Has an email address " groups and working from these . Note that the contact lookup sheets shown by other apps ( like , say , Mail ) are provided by the native app and thus will not show your new groups . A free example of such an app for the iPhone would be <URL> -- searching for " smart groups " on the App Store should get you more .
Yes , right . Round about Tiger ( 10.4 ) Apple introduced a nice neat way for apps to integrate with your address book and calendar data stores etc. . At the time it was a novel thing that allowed for any number of clever calendar widgets etc , and stuff that could happily replace the in-built tools ( or enhance them ) without you having to change anything at an account or data level . These days , because of a number of high profile mobile apps getting in trouble for doing what the desktop OS have been doing for years , they are cranking up the security and privacy options .
<URL> works now : Just enter Username and password and leave the other settings default : In chat you can activate OTR at the top right corner
This is n't exactly what you 're looking for , but it should actually work , which is an advantage . Create a service in Automator . The service takes no input . Two actions . First action : Run AppleScript Here 's the script : Second action : Website Popup Assign it a keystroke and you 're good to go .
If you backed your iPhone up and saved it to iCloud , you can do the following : Before you do it , Make sure to backup the iPod ! On your iOS device , go to Settings > General > Software Update . If a newer version of iOS is available , follow the onscreen instructions to download and install it . Make sure you have a recent backup to restore from . On your iOS 8 device : Go to Settings > iCloud > Storage > Manage Storage , then tap a device listed under Backups to see the date and size of its latest backup . On your iOS 7 device : Go to Settings > iCloud > Storage &amp; Backup > Manage Storage , then tap a device listed under Backups to see the date and size of its latest backup . For information about backing up manually now , see Back up your iOS device to iCloud . If you do n't see a backup you expected to be there , see the Apple Support article If you need help restoring from an iCloud backup . Go to Settings > General > Reset , then tap " Erase all content and settings . " In the Setup Assistant , proceed to " Set up your device , " tap Restore from a Backup , then sign in to iCloud . Proceed to " Choose backup , " then choose from a list of available backups in iCloud . For help deciding which backup to restore from , including information about restoring from another device 's backup , see the Apple Support article If you need help restoring from an iCloud backup . Source : <URL> However , this will delete all the data on the iPod and put the iPhone data in . Ignore the iOS 7 and iOS 8 . They are there for distinguishment .
You may want to give <URL> a try or <URL> . Both work on iPad with instructions <URL> and <URL> .
I created an Automator application that does what you 're looking for . You can download it <URL> . It 's pretty simple , just drag-and-drop any folder onto the application , it will then find all images in the folder and any subfolders , and prompt you for a destination to copy them to . If you 'd prefer to activate it by a hotkey or the right-click menu , you can make it into a service by following these steps : Open the application in Automator . Choose File → Convert To ... and select Service . Change the first drop-down at the top to folders . Save it and give it a name . Optional : open the Services menu within Keyboard Preferences . You can assign a keyboard shortcut there . Once you 've done that , you should be able to activate the service by right clicking on any folder , or hitting your shortcut key with a folder selected .
Set it as a Nickname instead . Then it would only be seen by you . Do n't hand the contact card to anyone , though , as it would be in that . See <URL> for a cautionary tale ;-) A friend of mine has been " Young Master Johnson " [ fake name ] for 15 years without anyone else knowing .
Currently , you have one thing against the feasibility , and that is Google Docs ( even offline mode ) is designed to work with the document you uploaded to Google Docs cloud ( Remember why Google wants you to put everything on the cloud ? ) If you do n't feel like going to Google Docs and start uploading files manually , you can use <URL> , to batch upload all your documents all at once , and then you can use Google Docs to access the documents . Note that I put bold on " currently " . Who knows if Google might release a true offline mode where it can read your documents off your local hard disk , and seamlessly upload it to Google cloud .
There is an easy but non-obvious way to do this . Assuming you 've got Google sync set up , and you can see your one Google Calendar on your phone already , go to <URL> ( it needs the www ; it does n't have to be on your iPhone ) . You 'll see a list of devices you 're syncing . Select your iPhone . On the next screen , you can choose which of your Google Calendars you want to sync with your iPhone . Check the box next to the desired calendars , then hit Done or Save or whatever it says at the bottom . Open iCal on your iPhone , and give it a while to sync , and you now should see all of your selected Google Calendars on your iPhone . For some reason , you ca n't change the colors of the calendars on the iPhone , so I change the colors in Google Calendar to match what the iPhone picks . There used to be a limit of 5 Google Calendars that you could sync to the phone , but they recently raised the limit to 25 . These same instructions apply to the iPad and iPod touch . I 've got this set up on all my devices , and it works like a charm . This is documented by Google here : <URL>
Open the Activity Monitor app ( found in the / Applications/Utilities folder ) and select the process from the list . Click the stop process button at the top left of the Activity Monitor window . If the process is a background process , you will have to select the memory tab to see the list of background processes .
end question
start question
How do you lengthen the amount of time that Time Machine keeps hourly backups ?
The answer is this is n't easily done . Apple does n't expose the timing which means it 's likely to change if you apply any updates to the system or the change might even break backups so they do n't run . I 've left a comment asking about the use case . I 've employed scripts to get around this in several cases for customers , but I 'd need to know more about your actual use case before providing an alternate solution that would work even with the default Time Machine scheduling .
Your question is hard to answer because you do n't mention the layer you are looking at . There at least four layers to consider : Hardware layer Usually the hardware consists of some administrative blocks , the " payload " blocks and some spare blocks . A hard drive contains some dozen and an SSD drive up to 15 % of the official size of spare/reserve blocks . Bad blocks are remapped to the spare/reserve blocks by the drive 's firmware . The operating system only knows the size of the payload blocks . Some low-level disk tools ( e.g. <URL> ) may read out the number of available spare blocks . Partiton layer Depending on the size of the hard disk - propagated by the firmware/hd-controller to your EFI/operating system - your partitioning tool ( e.g. Disk Utility ) may create partitions by determining start values and end values for each partition in the partition table . The free space on your hard disk is determined by the final block of the last partition and the beginning of the second GPT table ( provided that you partitioned your drive continuously and gaps do n't exist ) . You may read out the free space on your hard disk with . Volume layer Usually partitions have to be formatted with a file system to be usable . Almost all important filesystems contain a volume bitmap . The volume bitmap is a representation of all ( file system ) blocks or clusters of a volume . Free blocks and occupied blocks are marked differently . So one method to determine the free space on a volume is counting all blocks tagged free in the volume bitmap . LVM layer ( Logical Volume Manager ) or CoreStorage The LVM layer is an abstraction layer in between hard disks , partitions and volumes . Though determined by the basic partitions ( " Physical Volumes " ) a Logical Volume may span over several Physical Volumes ( Fusion Drive ) . I do n't know it for sure , but a Logical Volume Group probably contains a counterpart of a partition table holding all informations about all contained objects ( like Physical Volume ( s ) , Logical Volume Family ( ies ) , Logical Volume ( s ) ) . The available free space may be read out by entering block/cluster layer ( this is not relevant for OS X file systems ) Some file systems support <URL> . In short words : A lot of files do n't occupy a full block/cluster of the volume layer because they are smaller than the block/cluster size . In the free space of the cluster you may store a second/third/forth small file . I do n't know how to determine this free space ( probably some i-node/B-Tree magic ) . Depending on the layer you may now choose the appropriate method or tool to determine the " free space of your hard disk " .
No , Time Machine does not do this . The only reliable way to back up your BootCamp partition is to boot into Windows and run Windows-compatible disk backup software from within Windows , to back up to a separate external hard drive formatted with NTFS . Winclone has not been updated in a long time and is not a useful solution .
The actual data is stored in a hidden directory called at the root of the volume . There is a special virtual filesystem type called which translates the raw data in these hidden directories into a virtual Time Machine drive which is automatically mounted on
I have had a MacBook Pro since early 2007 , and the display is as bright and crisp as the day I bought it . I 've also had an iBook G4 since early 2005 and there 's no problem with its display , either . I doubt you 'll have any problems for quite awhile if at all , as newer models tend to have better displays then older models .
I 'm pretty sure you ca n't , and you would n't want to . The OS only bypasses the bundle for locally attached backup destinations . Direct attached storage ( DAS ) uses the HFS + filesystem and / Backups.backupsdb folder structure Network attached storage ( NAS ) uses the sparse bundle format to embed a HFS + filesystem on whatever filesystem that the NAS uses natively . Time Machine 's backup format plays some very interesting tricks with the Mac OS Extended filesystem that are n't really possible over a generic network storage volume . It 's also optimized to minimize network traffic when files change . This speeds both backup , browsing and restore operations and minimizes the volume of data file changes on the NAS for small changes on the source disk . In order to get TM to work over a network connection , it stores a disk image ( in sparse bundle format ) on the network server , and mounts that locally on the client . Since it 's mounted locally , the client has full access to the filesystem and can play all of the necessary tricks . So , without the . sparsebundle , you would n't be able to back up over the network since it optimizes the amount of data sent to the Time Capsule when a file changes as well as reduces the load on the Time Capsule to handle easier IO to the disk . You can still mount the sparse bundle image on any OS X machine and navigate to files . The only drawback might be if you are using an OS that does n't have a filesystem plug in for sparse bundle storage format .
You can still access data from " dee 's backup " by selecting " Browse Other Time Machine Disks " from Time Machine 's Dock menu . ( Right click or click-and-hold on TM 's icon in the Dock . ) TM is holding onto both sets of data because even though YOU know you copied all the data from the old machine to the new , all TM knows is that a bunch of data just showed up on the new machine . It does n't know where that data came from , but knows it should be backed up . When TM , running on " dee 's Macbook Pro " , needs to delete files to make room , it can only delete files backed up from " dee 's Macbook Pro " . Even the root user on that machine has no authority ( and can not give TM authority ) do delete some other computer 's backup files . You do n't need any of " dee 's iMac " backup . As you say , everything from that computer got copied over , and none of it has been needed since last year . It 's time to let it go . To do that , open the Backups.backupdb folder on your backup disk , and delete the subfolder named " dee 's iMac " . ( I 'm assuming you 're backing up to an external disk connected to your MBP . Details will be different if you 're backing up to a Time Capsule or a network volume , but the principle is the same . ) Time Machine wo n't let you modify that backup in any way except that it will allow you to delete it in its entirety . You 'll need to authenticate as an admin to do that . And it will take a while . You should be able to delete it using Finder , but if not you can enter the Terminal command :
I feel your pain . I spent the past few years on satellite and it was very unpleasant . Your best bet for monitoring and controling your Internet usage is buy <URL> . It will monitor your Mac and tell you every time that it is trying to make a connection , allowing you to allow or deny the request . For some apps ( such as email , web browser , etc ) , you may want to allow access anytime it wants it so you do n't have to approve each time . The first few days of using LittleSnitch will be frustrating , as you start to set rules and tell it what to do , but after you get past that , it will be a big help in keeping your usage in check . Unfortunately OS X is not very good about telling you everything that it is doing , and it assumes that any available Wi-Fi connection can be used without limits . Until recently iOS was much better about this , but it now allows much more background activity , so if you have an iPad and/or iPhone/iPod touch you need to watch out for those as well . When you are not using MacBook , I recommend closing the lid so that it will sleep .
I found a github project a short time ago , which handles the " read the backed-up files " part of this question : <URL> That is good enough for my purposes .
Time Machine backs up an entire drive/partition/volume unless you specifically remove files and folders under " Options " . All User accounts are included unless you uncheck them in Options . All of this info is available in your Finder Help menu .
This functionality is built into Time Machine . Launch Time Machine . Right click on the folder of choice , and select " Delete All Backups ... " from the menu . This will comb through all your backups and delete all traces of that folder and its contents .
Spotlight does n't index Time Machine backups or the Trash . It does do external disks but certain conditions have to be met for it to do them .
I did some searching and found <URL> ( the caveat being that this applies to 10.5 ) : Using the Restore feature in Disk Utility , you can " restore " the Time Machine disk to another disk and retain the history of changes . This could be useful if you 've outgrown your Time Machine backup drive , and want to migrate your existing backups to a new , larger drive . You should turn Time Machine off before doing starting this process , of course . Be aware that the disks will have the same name and information , so it might confuse Time Machine . For example , after I activated Time Machine on the newly-created disk , I plugged in the old disk , and it showed up as a Time Machine drive , but the backup failed . It 's probably best to avoid having both of them plugged in . At the very least , rename one of them . Perhaps more importantly , Carbon Copy Cloner 2.3 does n't work correctly for cloning a Time Machine drive ( I do n't know about 3 . x ) , as it does n't copy hard links but rather , copies what the links point to . This results in a lot of copies of your system when the Time Machine database has been around for a while . The common suggestion from that thread is for CCC is to a block-to-block copy of the old disk to the new disk .
I found a solution that does use the existing backup . The trick is to use ( see ) . My old disk was mounted under and the new disk is mounted as . My backup is under . ( If your old and new disk have both the same name , you have to follow all of the steps , because the name of the disk is not sufficient to associate an old backup with a new disk ) Stop time machine to do backups ( in the preferences ) Restore the old data to the new disk ( the command is one line ) : ( note this does not restore files starting with at the top level ) Tell time machine to associate the new disk to the old backups ( the command is one line ) : Start time machine to do backups Now time machine does not try to backup the entire new disk . Instead , it creates incremental backups based on the old snapshot . However , it seems not possible to go back in history using time mashine . I have tried to associate all old backups with the new disk without much success :
This tutorial should be able to help you : <URL> I just tried it and it worked for me . Not sure how reconnects will go after a reboot or something , but it should n't be that difficult to get working again .
Basically , an upgrade just makes a lot of the files that are included in a backup write a newer copy . There is n't any major change to the storage format and has n't been since Time Machine was implemented . All the changes have been in the code that runs the backup or changes to the rules about what files are excluded , but those changes revert when you install a clean OS before you go to restore files from any of the intervals stored in the backup . Time Machine backups are not bootable and they do n't include all files - so you might not even end up restoring the files that change when you go from one OS update to the next . Specifically - here are files that get excluded by rule : <URL> Time machine just backs up all files that are n't on a list to be skipped . It goes forward , time interval by time interval - writing any new files and updating any changed files . Assuming you are n't running low on space in the backup destination - you wo n't have any older files deleted from the backup and could restore files from before you made the upgrade .
Yes . It is known that FSEvents is the basis for Time Machine , and in fact Spotlight indexing as well before that . In both cases , it acts as a tripwire for the relevant parts of your system , so that Time Machine knows what it needs to back up and Spotlight knows what it needs to index . However , using FSEvents for backups does leave a tiny bit of room for error , as you have probably discovered . <URL> details another idiosyncrasy . <URL> is a brilliant little app that can help you delve into the FSEvents world if you are interested . At the end of the day , Time Machine is n't really considered professional-grade . It 's brilliant for what it is , and I still use it , but I highly recommend pairing it with something like a weekly full disk clone ( off-site if possible ) for a more comprehensive backup strategy .
Yes , you can . When you set up the new Mac and connect it to your Time Machine backup either through the network or via cable , you can select restore from Time Machine Backup during setup . If you have already set up your new Mac and want to now restore , use Migration Assistant found in your Applicatons > Utilities folder . The instructions can be found on Apple Support . See the link below or search support for Migration Assistant . From <URL> : Migration Assistant and Setup Assistant Setup Assistant opens the first time you start up a new Mac . It helps you enter your information about your network , and guides you through setting up a user account on your computer . Use it to transfer user accounts , settings , and documents from another computer to your Mac . If you do n't use Setup Assistant to transfer information when you first set up your new Mac , you can do it later using Migration Assistant . Migration Assistant in OS X Mavericks and Yosemite can transfer information from other computers that have OS X Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 or later installed . If you 're migrating from a computer with an earlier version of OS X , update your older computer first , or manually copy your data from one computer to another . If you 're migrating from a Windows-based PC to a Mac , you can use the Windows Migration Assistant as part of this process . Migrate from a Time Machine backup or external drive Use these steps to migrate users , data , or other information from an existing Time Machine backup stored on a Time Capsule or external drive . If your Time Machine backup is on an external drive , connect the drive to your new Mac . On your new Mac , open Migration Assistant . You can find it by choosing Go > Utilities , or using Spotlight or Launchpad . Enter an admin password when prompted , and click OK . Select " From a Mac , Time Machine backup , or startup disk " , then click Continue . Select the Drive , Time Machine backup , or Time Capsule volume you want to migrate from , then click Continue . The Continue button is unavailable ( dimmed ) until you select a source . If you 're migrating from a Time Capsule , enter your Time Capsule password when prompted , then click Connect . Select the specific Time Machine backup you want to migrate from , then click Continue . You can customize the type of information that is migrated on the next screen . If you want to transfer only a portion of an account , deselect anything you do n't want migrated . If there is more than one user on your original Mac , you can click the triangle next to a user 's icon and deselect anything you do n't want to migrate for specific users . After you click Continue , the Migration Assistant begins transferring files to Mac . The amount of time that it takes for migration to complete depends on the amount of data being copied , and the speed of the connection . After migration finishes , the login window reappears . Log into the migrated account on your new Mac to see your old files . <URL>
No - you do n't need to get a new drive , but it 's always nice to consider getting a new drive for reliability reasons . At some point , retire the old drive to the shelf or delete it and repurpose it . The backup should ideally be more reliable than the source in terms of longevity . Even an unreliable drive can be useful though since it will protect you from user errors and is unlikely to fail at the same time as the primary source if you are primarily concerned about having two copies of the current data . One Time Machine drive can serve to hold files from many computers . Similarly , one computer can back up to multiple Time Machine drives . In the case where you migrate data from one Mac to another , the system will usually detect this and offer to " migrate " the one time series of backups so that you get two benefits : You do n't lose the space savings where each file is only saved when it changes - saving space when a dozen backup intervals contain the same file version . You do n't lose history and have to wait for all the files to back up .
That preference seems to be stored in com.apple.speech.synthesis.general.prefs Try this : or 0 at the end to turn it off . See for more info . Edit : Another thing that the shell script should do : if you have n't enabled this preference or another speech synthesis behavior since startup , you 'll also need to launch the Speech Synthesis Server daemon : otherwise , the option will show up as checked in System Preferences , but nothing will actually read the option when it is time to speak the time .
end question
start question
How to move window to different desktop via keyboard in Lion ?
Pressing the shortcuts for changing desktops while dragging a window should still work , but the shortcuts have to be enabled in System Preferences . <URL> supports for example assigning ⌃ ⇧ → to moving a window to the next desktop .
You can only move spaces which are non-active . For example , lets say you have spaces 1 and 2 . If space 1 is active , you can not move it . You first have to select space 2 then you can move space 1 to a different monitor .
Mac OS X Server is designed for remote " headless " administration and even initial setup . Server Admin included with the <URL> provides a GUI interface for server administration tasks as well as the ability to screen share the server desktop remotely . Apple provides a guide : <URL> .
Yes and No . The game has to support the ability to run in windowed mode . If it does n't support it , then it will not be able to do it . Now , when it comes to games that do n't have the option in an preference menu , they can sometimes still support the feature , they just do n't advertise it . There are a few games that require you to edit a preference file to enable/disable certain things . Usually contained inside the game icon , right clicking on the game icon and hitting " Show Package Contents " will open the game 's directory and show you the files that make the game . Be very careful when doing this because editing the wrong thing can break the game . Usually if this option exists then it will be somewhere on the internet and you will be able to find out more about it by doing a search for that game . One such game that supports this is Cave Story + , editing the preference file can enable certain game modes and unlock features . Other games will work with a shortcut when running , usually : Now , if none of these are viable options , then you wo n't be able to do it . I hope that helps clarify things .
This may seem complicated , although after you 've done it a few times and use it regularly you 'll have it down . Depending on if you have other windows minimized you may have to tap the left or right arrow keys on the last step to pull up the window you 're wanting un-minimized . While holding ⌘ tap tab followed by ← then ↓ twice , then press return ( keep ⌘ pressed the until after you 've tapped the initial ↓ )
One of the easiest ways to do this is to use <URL> . It will let you bind a keyboard shortcut or a trackpad shortcut to many commands , including maximize window . Once you are in the BTT settings page , do the following : Go to the Keyboard tab on top . On the bottom near Keyboard shortcut , enter in whichever keyboard shortcut you want . For Predefined action , choose Maximize Window . There are many other options related to maximizing besides " Maximize Window " : Maximize Window Left Maximize Window Right Maximize Window To Bottom Half Maximize Window To Top Half Maximize To Next Monitor
So you can . If you open System Preferences > Sharing , and check both remote management ( to start the vnc server ) and remote login ( to start the ssh server ) ; you should be able to login remotely using vnc over ssh . Note : You must have all needed ports forwarded correctly , and an android client capable of connecting over ssh .
You can try Cinch and SizeUp apps to do that . <URL> <URL>
Tap the item Select " Show more ... " Tap " List " Select the list where to move the item .
In OS X to " properly " install an application , just take the . app file a drag in into your applications folder using the Finder ( due to localization the Application folder in the Screenshot is named Program ... , but the icon is the same ) When you then launch the application it will appear in the dock ( the " tray of icons " ) . Right click the icon and and choose " Options " - > " Keep in dock " and it will stay there for quick launching . You can also move it around in the dock if you want to have it in another spot .
For maximizing windows ( and more ) , I use SizeUp : <URL> This is not the same as full-screen mode which Mark refers to .
Turns out I had an old version . The new , officially Lion compatible version from the <URL> works fine .
TotalTerminal might be a better option . TotalTerminal has a visor mode that allows it to stay on top of all the other windows . You can choose to place it anywhere on the desktop , of course , and choose to have it slide out from one of those positions when you use CTRL - ~ key combo or anything else you 've set up . Plus it 's free .
You are probably searching for the option " Full Keyboard Access " . You can find it under System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts
Based on your updated question , the answer is no ; there 's not a standard , built-into iOS way to go to the end of a file . Individual apps are able to create custom gestures or menu commands to perform that function , so it might exist in specific apps but there 's no standard way that works with every app .
I had the same issue on my new Mac , when I checked the history file ~ / . bash_history I discovered that it was owned by root . I run , now when I reopen terminal my history is preserved .
I upgraded Xquartz and the problem went away . Windows open below the osx title bar now instead of underneath it .
Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.2 : Click on the photo in Contacts Click once to select the one you want from the resulting grid of available photos Click on the icon with the pencil across it at the bottom left of the grid window . Click on the larger version of the image that appears , and copy the image to the clipboard . Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.4 : Click on the photo in Contacts Make sure the image opens in the large Pop-up underneath the small image . Click on the larger image . Copy the image to the clipboard , e.g. via command-C . You can now paste the image anywhere you want . For example , you can open Preview and , when it 's ready , select the menu File < New from Clipboard , and a new window will open with the photo in it . You can then save that file in any format available to anywhere you wish .
If you want to create an AppleScript application to put in the Dock you can use the following code in OS X Yosemite ( and latter , I believe ) . In Script Editor , save it as Toggle Grayscale changing the File Format : to : Application You can give the App a different icon via copy and paste into the icon of the App 's Get Info sheet and then drag and drop the App bundle onto the Dock . You 'll have to give permission under Accessibility on the Privacy tab of Security &amp; Privacy in System Preferences in order to run it successfully . If you 'd like to use a bash script using the code provided by IconDaemon , the following code will toggle between using color and grayscale based on how it 's currently set . <URL>
In Safari 9.0 ( El Capitano ) you can right-click on the URL while holding down the option key and you then have the option to open the URL in a new private window . This option is provided from regular or private windows , unlike what appears to be the case in previous versions of Safari . <URL>
end question
start question
How to get rid of a widget stuck on the desktop instead of the dashboard ?
Apple allows widgets to be displayed on the desktop in order to allow the people developing the widgets to test them without using Dashboard . Your system must have had that capability turned on somehow and that widget set to run on your desktop . It 's very easy to get the widget off of your desktop , and make it so that no other widgets will accidentally be relocated . To get the widget off your desktop : click and hold on the widget , then press F12 to enter Dashboard . Once Dashboard is active , release the mouse from the widget . The widget is now docked in your Dashboard instead of on your desktop . You 'll probably have two copies of the widget in Dashboard now . You can get rid of one in the normal way ( press the plus button at the bottom left and click the on the widget ) . You can also just hold down the option key over the widget and the will appear . Now , to prevent other widgets from escaping Dashboard in the future : Open Terminal ( / Applications/Utilities ) . Paste this in and press enter : If , on the other hand , you want to run some widgets on your desktop , you can run the above command with instead of . Then , activate Dashboard , click and hold on a widget , exit Dashboard , and release the widget .
<URL> lets you assign arbitrary tap/swipe/click gestures to arbitrary commands . It supports Lion .
A friend just said : I 'm on a Mac but I shell into a remote server and run irssi in screen , most people I know do that . The second most common , and what I think you are looking for is : <URL>
According to <URL> , " I know the original locations are stored in ~ / . Trash / . DS_Store " . is the name of the file that stores various Finder-related information . Following that question , there is also <URL> and <URL> , which do n't quite look like duplicates but talk about some of the details a bit more .
You can see all purchases made through the iOS App Store within iTunes ( on OSX or Windows ) : Start iTunes Log into the Store in the Store menu Show Account Details ( in the Store menu as well ) Shopping Statistics ( do n't know how it 's called in the english version , it 's the third block from the top )
TextMate 2 uses a special file called to control lots of settings in the app . It will use if present for global defaults . You can also add one inside a source tree to control settings for a particular project . The setting you 're looking for is : Just add that line to ( or create it if it does n't exist ) . You can read more about this file <URL> .
There are two options here : You can simply select " Allow All " in your firewall , or simply turn it off . You can remove the apps from the list , delete the file for those apps , run them , and then add them to the list . The plist is responsible for a lot of behaviors and I 'm willing to bet either an upgrade to the OS or the app can cause the " link " to break . About files ... A plist is a special kind of text file that contains properties the application and other resources , typically the OS , use to retain and reuse information needed to run the application . is a file type and has many uses , typically storing user preferences , but , essentially , it is an XML file . You can look to see if there are any caches , which are typically files , for the applications in question in and . There is also one in but bad things can happen when mucking around in there , so just leave it alone . The system goes into those folders for a wide variety of reasons , and I usually clean out the first two folders I listed completely about once a month .
Depending on how your System prefs are set , F3 will do a variety of window-juggling tasks ... If Prefs > Keyboard > Keyboard is set to default , with " Use all F1 , F2 ... " unchecked then they will work as stated , if it 's checked you will need to add the Fn key to each of these commands . F3 will toggle Mission Control - all windows of all apps &amp; Desktops spread out so you can see them . Cmd ⌘ F3 will toggle desktop view only . Ctrl ⌃ F3 will show all windows of only the frontmost app * [ this is likely to be the closest to what you need . ] Shift ⇧ F3 will do the same as just F3 ... only really really slowly [ for presentations etc ] Opt ⌥ F3 will bring up Mission Control prefs , where you can tweak other behaviour . You can also go directly to a given tab by right-clicking the app icon in the Dock , though it only shows the frontmost tab 's title for each window .
When you 're in the Finder , hit Command + F. Notice under the Search : bar there 's some options . Use the pulldown to select Name . Then set the next to Matches , Contains ... and type in your search string .
If Parallels is in the suggestions below , scroll down and select it . Do it a couple of times and it will become the top result eventually . App launching is adaptive .
There are a few ways to get a single large DV file imported from tape , depending on whether your constraint is budget or time : 1 ) <URL> has a recording mode that can see DV devices . Yes , Apple still charges $ 29.99 for it , but the interface is simple and lets you record a long , single file . Just make sure the capture format in the app 's preferences is set to ' Device Native ' or something along those lines ( I believe it wants to transcode to MPEG-4 by default ) . 2 ) <URL> was a free sample application provided by Apple to developers to demonstrate video capture frameworks . The app seems to be gone from Apple 's site but a <URL> . This app lets you add a DV video/audio source , configure its capture format , and record as long as you need to . I still use this app on a regular basis . 3 ) A final option is to script the standard QuickTime 7 player via AppleScript to open a video capture window , which it will allow you to do even if you have n't purchased Pro . Unfortunately , I do n't have the original source code for this script , so you would have to open up AppleScript Editor and QT7 's dictionary and work it out through trial and error . Any of these recording approaches will yield a . dv file ( or a DV file in a . mov container ) , either of which can be taken in by iDVD , a simpler DVD app like <URL> , or by Handbrake if you wish to transcode to MPEG-4 / H. 264 .
The reason why they release patches so often , iTunes is the app where all their management of iPhone and iPad occurs , which means they often need to update it to add support for new iPhone/iPad/iPod touch models , and to support new features in those products . The fact that it is also where they handle a lot of their DRM ( which they may have contractual obligations to update in some instances ) probably is part of the reason as well . The fundamental issue with delta patches is that they are more complex , and have higher support costs for the vendor . A full updater can run against any version of the app that is installed , a delta patcher most be made against specific version . A full updater will work regardless of whether the app has been modified ( user hacking the binary to do something , tweaking the artwork , etc ) , a delta updater will fail against a modified app . Given the extra work involved in preparing a delta patch , and the increased chance that it wo n't work , they tend to only be used in very specific cases . Apple tends to create delta updates for software updates , but they only create a delta against the most recent released version of the OS , rather than making dozens of versions that work with every release they make the one that will get most people , and then for everyone else they do a combo update that is a full updater that also incorporates every previous software update as well . For smaller things like iTunes , they do n't tend to bother with delta updates at all due to the increased workload , support , the increased number of versions that exist , and the fact that iTunes is fairly small in the scheme of things ( it is smaller than an OS update , or an iPhone/iPad firmware ) .
Most obvious cause would be that some other app has taken over the . pkg extension - maybe a file compression utility . Find any . pkg file &amp; Cmd ⌘ i to Get Info . Where it says Open with , select Installer , then Change All
You can do peer-to-peer networking on bluetooth with some games and other applications . I have n't checked out the details but my understanding is that the Bluetooth profile is much better in the iPhone 4 and iPad than in the early iPhones . I expect you could also hook up to BT headphones and speakers to stream music .
In my experience for Mountain Lion , determining which display is the primary display is usually achieved by dragging the white Menu Bar ( circled in screenshot below ) onto the graphic of another display , thus setting the other display as the primary monitor .
Many ports have a + nox11 variant , which you can add as a default variant in the variants.conf file that 's pointed to in your macports.conf file . However , in my experience , there are some X11-dependent ports that do n't have the + nox11 variant . I believe I 've also seen situations in which non-X11-dependet port A depends on port B , and port B is so deeply X11-dependent that it would n't even make sense for it to have a + nox11 variant . Overall , in my experience , it 's practically impossible to keep Xorg from getting installed . :-(
You may be able to use <URL> to access FileVault 2 encrypted drives on Linux . OS X turns the password for the drive into a derived key by using <URL> . That derived key then unlocks the encrypted drive . I 'm not aware of a way to display the key .
In a word , " No " . The dock is dynamically sized as you have found on the basis of the number of applications stored , or running , and the amount of document windows you may have minimised . There is no way to stop it exhibiting this behaviour , and if you think about it it would cause considerable usability issues if it were to do so , as the only way to maintain a static width would be dynamic resizing of App/Document icons , which would eventually be too small to usefully identify . If you do n't like the overlap , then you can try a couple of workarounds : Set the dock to autohide Open what you consider to be the maximum number of items in your dock , and scale the size down in preferences to make it fit in your " gap " , then accept that a lot of the time it will be smaller , even it it should n't get much bigger than the gap . Use a vertical dock to any change of size shouldn ' f affect the width .
Your brother 's Apple ID probably still has his phone number associated with it for iMessage . The smoothest way to deal with this is to have him disassociate his phone number from his Apple ID . Apple has a self-service web site that explains how to accomplish this : <URL> If that does n't work , this older KB article has a helpful section <URL> . If he has other Apple devices ( Mac or iPad ) that are using his Apple ID , your iMessages may be being delivered there . If none of those devices are available when you send him an iMessage , your phone will eventually offer you the opportunity to resend the message as an SMS or MMS . Unfortunately you ca n't disable iMessage on a per-contact basis .
This is actually insanely simple : Open iTunes and go into your music library . Click on a song to ensure focus is inside the song list , press ⌘ a to select all your songs , then press ⌘ c to copy them . Open the text editor of your choice , anything should do , then ⌘ v paste your songs ! Ét Voíla , all your songs listed in plain text .
end question
start question
Why do playlists I create in the iPod app disappear ?
Turns out the real problem is when I sync with Foobar . Looks like I 'm stuck with iTunes .
The developers of those apps have blocked AirPlay video . Though the default is to allow video streaming , individual developers can make that call for their app . Older apps ( before iOS 5 ) will all do it , as well many released after iOS 5 came out . See the developer documentation , specifically " allowsAirPlayVideo " <URL> .
It should be possible . The to-do list would be considered ' tasks ' , which falls under the category of Calendar Events . in Entourage , choose Entourage > Preferences and click Sync Services under General Preferences : More information : <URL>
New apps are never installed to the first screen . Instead , they are put in the first open space available from the second screen onward . If there is no open space for the app , then a new screen is created . This does seem like something that could easily be turned into a preference ; and , there may be a jailbreak setting already . But there is currently no way to override this behavior that is supported by Apple .
Here are the steps I took to Find and Replace a word with a word ( s ) in Pages app for iPad : Tap in the toolbar and tap Find in the popover . When the search field appears at the bottom of the screen , type in the word ( s ) you 're searching for . The results are immediately highlighted in the document . Use the forward and back arrows to move through the document to see the results in context . To replace the found term , tap ( gear ) to the left of the search field . In the popover , you can refine your search by searching for matching cases or whole words only . Or , simply tap Find and Replace and a second text field appears to the right of the search field . Type in the replacement word and tap Replace . Pages for iPad finds the first instance of the word and replaces it . Tap the forward and back arrows to find each instance and manually replace it by tapping the Replace button . To automatically find and replace all instances of the word , tap and hold the Replace button until Replace All appears in the popover . Tap it and all the found words are automatically replaced . For a graphical representation of the steps mentioned above , check out this article which I found useful : <URL> Source : my.safaribooksonline.com
Either you have on your library same album and different artists or , most likely , you 're creating some weird rules that generate that behavior , like <URL> . If that 's the case , seems like you 'd have to change to in any rule that uses the plus sign . Granted , it is inconsistent behavior in this second case and it might get fixed in the future . And , who knows , there might be few other little bugs like this as well .
Chrome and Firefox have n't been developed for iOS yet , but you could try Dolphin Browser . It 's very similar to Chrome , and you can download extensions for it . Opera Mini and Murcury Web Browser ( quite similar to Desktop Safari ) are another couple of nice alternatives to Mobile Safari , and Atomic Web Browser is slightly better than Safari , but does n't have many features . If you want to watch Flash videos on your iPad , try out Skyfire . It 's limited , but it does what it says . If you want an interface which looks like Chrome , you might like <URL> . Here 's a <URL> which may help . You could search for " browser " on the app store , but realize that most of the applications that you find will still be using the same rendering engine that Apple developed . It 's only the stuff around the rendering engine that will look different . There are some rumors that Firefox will eventually release an iOS version . Personally though , I prefer Dolphin as my favorite . :3 <URL> Gestures : create a personal symbol to access the websites you use the most Visit your favorite sites with one touch . Tabbed browsing Bookmarks Bar Full Screen Mode
This can be done if you disable auto sync in device settings , and automatic sync manager . For that however you need to sync the new ones by selecting and dragging to ip * d to sync . That way the ones that got deleted wo n't be deleted from the device but only from the computer .
I have n't found any " one click " method , but these steps do the trick : Create a new playlist and give it a title . This playlist should now be open in the right sidebar in iTunes 11 . Open the Up Next list via the blue icon to the right of the current song 's title . Click on the first song you want to add to select it . Shift-click on the last song you want to add . All songs between and including the first and last should now be highlighted in the Up Next pane . Click and drag the list into the open playlist . You 'll need to switch to the History view in the Up Next pane and repeat the process of selecting tracks and adding them to your new playlist . Click " Done " in the playlist sidebar once you 've finished adding tracks and putting them in the desired order .
Assuming that the InstallESD.dmg is on the windows 7 computer : Copy the InstallESD.dmg file onto the USB drive ( just copy , not burning etc ) Boot into the MacBook 's Recovery Partition . Plug in the USB drive and open disk utility . Restore the USB drive using the InstallESD.dmg on the USB drive * Restart and boot from the USB Drive . * You might not be able to restore from an image that on the drive being restored . In which case use 2 USB drives ( one to copy the InstallESD.dmg from the PC and one to restore it to and boot from ) or : open terminal from the Utilities menu in the recovery partition ( on the homescreen ) . Use to find the location of your hard drive and USB drive Use to copy the InstallESD.dmg to you hard drive . ( e.g. , where you replace the paths with the ones found in step 2 ) Open Disk Utility and restore the USB drive using the InstallESD.dmg on your hard drive , if you ca n't find your hard drive in the Open dialog , press cmd + shift + g and you can enter the path manually . Or if your USB CD drive can burn DVDs and you have a DVD , you could use the USB drive to copy from windows and then use the Macbook 's Disk Utility to burn the image to the DVD . ( or use the DVD to copy from the PC and use the USB drive to boot )
Yes , mobile sites can be programmed to remove the navigation bar whilst browsing the site . Makes for a better user experience when these elements get out of the way . This is documented here <URL> In particular the apple-mobile-web-app-capable element .
It 's very tricky . You have to disassemble the whole iPod nano as the <URL> shows . This is a picture taken from the second last step :
The trouble is in the handling of JPEG2000 image files . Some solutions are offered <URL> . If this was your problem , it was solved with the release of iOS 5 . Those images should be viewable now .
You need to tell iTunes not to sync those songs . Uncheck the songs you do not want to sync in the iTunes " Music " list . Check " Sync only checked songs and Videos " in the options for the device .
iOS Notes syncing works through the IMAP protocol , which in iCloud is integrated into the email service . Although Apple could technically choose to allow for notes syncing without explicitly requiring an email address , they have chosen to make it a part of the email , almost like Notes is its own email folder . You should also be able to sync your Notes using your Gmail account since it is also based on the IMAP protocol :
Normally , to shut down an iPod touch : Hold down the Sleep/Wake button on top of the device . ( NOT the Home button on the front . ) Use the <URL> link below to find the manual for your device . Then " slide to power off " when prompted . I suspect you may be holding down the Home button , which invokes the Voice Command . From <URL> : How to restart Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button until the red slider appears . Drag the slider to turn your device completely off . After the device turns off , press and hold the Sleep/Wake button again until you see the Apple logo . You can <URL> for iPod touch .
Some step by step instructions can be found <URL> . After opening Disk Utility : Click the New Image icon Place the contents of folder/directory into the newly created disk image .
The built-in application is called Grab . You can find it under the Utilities folder in Applications . You can also use keyboard shortcuts to take screen shots . Here 's a quick guide from <URL> : In Mac OS X , you can use simple keyboard shortcuts to do all sorts of things , including capturing images of what 's on your Mac screen . For example , you can take a screen shot of your entire screen by holding down the Command and Shift keys and pressing a 3 . If you hold down the Command and Shift keys and press 4 , Mac OS X turns the cursor into crosshairs you can use to select whatever portion of your display you 'd like to capture in a screen shot . If you immediately hit the Spacebar after typing Command-Shift-4 , Mac OS X replaces those crosshairs with a little camera . Using the camera , you can take a screen shot of the Dock , the entire menu bar , a single open menu , the desktop , or any open window .
There is an easy way to do that right in Gmail . In the settings tab , go to settings and first add a forwarding address under Forwarding and POP/IMAP . Enter the desired forwarding address and confirm it by entering the confirmation code or clicking on the confirmation link . Then go to the Filters and Blocked Addresses tab in settings . On the bottom of the page choose " create a new filter " . In the first line enter the email from the certain sender that you would like to forward , then click on " Create filter with this search " , which will bring you to the next page . Here check the " Forward it to : choose an address " box , and choose the address . That should do it . Gmail has great filters for mails Hope this is helpful , might not be Automator or applescript , but it 's right inside gmail , fast and easy ... cheers
You ca n't set it to go back to the last Desktop you were in , but you can set it to go to a specific Desktop when you exit full screen . Just move the application in windowed mode to the desktop you want , right-click the app in the Dock and set to " This Desktop " . Whenever you come out of full screen , it will always go into windowed mode in that particular desktop .
end question
start question
Where is " search " on the iPod nano 6th gen ?
It looks like this iPod does n't have this feature : it 's not mentioned in the manual ( <URL> ) - even in the index . However , you can go to all items starting with a certain letter . From the manual ( on page 20 ) : If the list you 're browsing has an index , drag your finger down the index to show a large letter superimposed over the list . When you reach the letter you want , lift your finger .
If you 're using Windows , you 're basically locked into using iTunes to manage your content ; some people do n't like iTunes . Syncing non-media content is weird , too . There is n't a unified sync system . I sync calendar via Google Calendar , notes via SimpleNote , and general files with Dropbox . Some apps only sync with your computer over WiFi , which is a hassle for me at work where the wireless network is not set to permit this . Sync is really important for the iPod Touch because it 's nice to have a lot of your data at hand all the time , but it 's a pain to type it in manually because it 's so small . You ca n't easily update podcasts on the device . I could n't sync for one week one time and had to update each episode by finding it in the iTunes store . It 's really smooth , so if your hands are greasy it 's easy to drop . Mine has handled drops well . I 'm glad I use plastic screen protectors , though . These are the most potent drawbacks I could come up with . I have n't found any comparable devices that solve these problems any better , though . Non-phone smart devices that fit in your pocket that are n't iPod Touches basically do n't exist now ; there are some Android devices in the works . I 'm delighted by my iPod Touch and absolutely recommend the device .
The cable has a faulty connection and takes effort to connect to the iPhone . The TV Out option was n't appearing because the cable was n't connecting to the iPhone unless I pushed it in , held it , and then gently left it alone . When that happens , the TV Out option appears .
Nanos or shuffles are great for workouts at the gym or while running . You can use them just about anywhere . I personally use a Classic for my stuff , but the nano is great if you have a smaller library or want something very mobile . As far as what you can do with it ( other than playing music ) , it really depends on which generation you have . You obviously ca n't really run ' apps ' on it , but many generations ( of nanos ) had some small games , radios , could play video , etc. .
The main store of the Photo Stream is on iCloud . Local copies of the latest 1000 photos in your Photo Stream are stored on your iDevices . Photo Stream pictures can also be downloaded into your iPhoto and/or Aperture photo libraries , or onto a designated folder on your Windows PC . Photos are purged from the Photostream cloud store after thirty days , so be certain that photos you want to save are downloaded to your computer , or saved to your iOS device camera roll on a regular basis . ᔥ Apple : <URL> ᔥ Macworld : <URL> Note that you now have the ability to delete individual photos from Photo Stream Macworld 's statement to the contrary was true at the time of publication .
Yes , you can . It 's unlocked , and you can move to any carrier you wish to . Of course , if you 're planning to move off of Verizon , you would have to consider the terms dictated by your contract with Verizon . Read more on <URL> . Here 's a relevant quote : However , both of the iPad 4th Gen models with cellular data capability are sold " unlocked " and are capable of running on any compatible network . Also , a footnote <URL> states ( with emphasis here ) : 2 . To identify your iPad model number , see <URL> . iPad models are unlocked and may support LTE networks outside the country of purchase when using a valid SIM from a supported carrier . Contact your carrier for more details .
Directly on the iPod , I do n't think so , if your sound settings are maxed . Try Settings > iPod > Volume Limit : Off and Settings > iPod > Sound Check : Off On iTunes , go to the " Info " window of the podcast audio file , and in the Option tab , try to see if you can set the audio volume to 200 % . I know it works on music , but it should also be available for the podcasts .
Camera sensors are not only limited in their resolution , but also in the rate at which the image data can be read off of them . Just because a sensor can take 5-megapixel still images does n't mean that all of that data can be read off the sensor fast enough to record ( smooth ) video . Even reading just a subset of the pixels ( called pixel binning ) to reduce the amount of data may not be enough to get 1080p images at , say , 30 frames per second . A web search indicates that the iPhone 4 uses an Omnivision OV5650 sensor . According to Omnivision 's own <URL> for that sensor , it 's limited to 720p video , so it 's not just a software thing . I could n't find any specifics about the sensor in the new iPod touch , but it 's almost certainly a different one if it records 1080p .
From my experience excluding a folder from Spotlight indexing will exclude the files/folders from showing up when you do a search in Spotlight ( command + space ) but will still allow you to open that folder in finder and use the search bar in the top right of finder to search within that folder only . I imagine that the search of an un-indexed folder means the OSX will search in real time , or temporarily index the folder to allow you to do a folder search that has been excluded from the main Spotlight index and then erase it when you close the Finder window . Just make sure once you 've typed in your search word ( s ) in the search bar that you click the name of your folder/drive in the " Search " criteria in the grey bar that appears ( as shown below ) . To exclude a folder from appearing in the Spotlight search , and therefore from being indexed go to : System Preferences > Spotlight > Privacy tab , then click the + and select the folder you want to exclude :
To avoid rendering your device unusable due to a bad upgrade file , iOS does some verification of the download before installing ( likely some type of checksum to ensure the download was n't corrupted and it 's for the right device , etc. ) . Given that your install process fails during the verification process , it 's likely that you either got a bad download ( possible , although it should try to re-download if that 's the case ) , or the authentication and verification servers that the installer needs to check against are having some problems ( not unlikely , given the load they 've had since iOS 6 came out ) . Best advice is to just wait it out and try later . However if you 're impatient , you can directly download the update to your computer and update via iTunes ( although if the servers are experiencing issues , it might affect this method as well ) . Steps for a direct update Go to <URL> and download the proper file for your device . With your device connected in iTunes , open the device page , hold down option ( shift on Windows ) and click the Update button . An Open File dialog should appear . Browse to the file you downloaded in step 1 and open it . Your software update should begin normally .
On my machine ( running 10.8.3 ) , it is in . You can search for this using Spotlight : press cmd-space or click the magnifying glass near top right in the menu bar . There are also some key shortcuts that save ( or copy to the clipboard ) images from the screen , clipped in various ways . cmd-shift-4 is one I use regularly , but there are several variants on this .
You can tap on an area of the picture you are taking to adjust the image settings ( including the exposure ) to that area of the image .
MacBook 's do n't have the extended keyboard which contains the additional 7 function keys ( F13-F19 ) . They 're only on <URL> ( with numeric keys ) keyboard as presented on this photo :
Just realized I can copy the videos from iPod in Windows Explorer , like I do with a pendrive .
While there are ( too ) many ways to setup multiple iDevices on the same machine , the simplest way and most headache free is having a single account on all devices synced to the same machine . That way you can sync everything everywhere easily . If you want to have separate accounts , set separate users on the machine and then you can setup different iTunes/Apple accounts on each computer user . But that will give issues with syncing contents . Apple is not very good with sharing content with other people - but they 're trying to get better on it at least with family members .
I do n't know of any software that can change the volume but you could use Apple Earphones with Remote to change the volume even though the buttons do n't work . <URL> I also found this , a remote that can be used with any headphones : <URL>
Finder uses Spotlight to index and search for files and folders . There are several resources that can help you with understanding the way Spotlight indexes files on your Mac . Since you are looking for an exact phrase type of text search , use quotation marks . ( See below ) In Finder select the Help menu and type in Spotlight for further information . <URL> From Apple 's Support site regarding unexpected search results : OS X El Capitan : If searching your Mac does n't return expected results There are several things you can try if a search does n't return the items you expect . Check the text you entered in the search field Make sure the word or phrase is spelled correctly . To search for an exact phrase , enclose it in quotation marks . For example , enter " trip to Paris " to find items that contain that exact phrase . If you do n't use quotation marks , the search results include items that contain those words in any order . Check the location you 're searching If you began your search in Spotlight , the search results can include email , Calendar events , Spotlight Suggestions , information from other apps , and more . If you began your search in a Finder window , the search results include only files and folders on your internal disk . Check your Spotlight preferences You may have removed items from Spotlight search results . Choose Apple menu > System Preferences , click Spotlight , then click Search Results . You may have excluded certain folders or disks from searches . Choose Apple menu > System Preferences , click Spotlight , then click Privacy . You may have turned off Location Services for Spotlight Suggestions . For more information , see About Spotlight Suggestions . For more information about Spotlight preferences , see Spotlight preferences .
No - You have to click on Search and a serach queery will bring up all results accross iTunes . The store page behind newsstand is just a coverpage for the iTunes store . You will find that once you have entereed the store from newsstand you are able to browse and download any iTunes content . It is easier in this case to use iTunes on the desktop of a computer . You can browse in alternate ways by tapping on release date and then sorting by name , most popular or release date . However when you use the iTunes store on an iPad , you have the additional option of filtering results by Category , you can then select Newsstand .
You can plug a standard Apple 30pin USB Charging cable into the Galaxy Tab charger and it will work fine . Both the Apple and Samsung chargers deliver 5v output ( although the Samsung one delivers a higher current ) . It is perfectly safe to use .
Look for the " Stand " menu to appear between the " Window " and " Help " menus in your top menu bar .
end question
start question
Can iTunes now play HD music files in high definition ?
iTunes uses the same technologies as QuickTime for playback . According to <URL> circa 2005 , QuickTime is capable of playing 24-bit , 192kHz audio files . I think it 's safe to say that iTunes is fully capable of playing these files . However , you 're probably limited by the hardware in your Mac . If you open the " Audio MIDI Setup " app , you 'll probably find that your Mac is limited to audio output at 96kHz . So , if you want to listen to these files in full 192kHz , you 'll need to use a dedicated external USB DAC , and bypass your Mac 's internal audio hardware . Please correct me if I 'm wrong . Further reading : <URL>
should do the trick . The flag specifies any application you want , so it 's applicable to any number of situations , including ones where TextEdit is n't the default editor . Other relevant options opens in the default editor ( i.e. if you use BBEdit , TextMate , etc. ) will open the file specifically in TextEdit
I know I 'm replying on an old question , but I came in here googling . My iPhone 4 had the same behavior , I just updated to iTunes 10 and I my music is no longer greyed out . In essence : upgrade to iTunes 10 and you should be able to do this .
Judging by this <URL> , it seems unlikely an iPhone can use the format directly . Since Opus is not compatible with most popular players and devices so far , it 's absolutely impracticable , no matter directly play Opus files on Windows Media Player , Android , PS3 , Xbox 360 and iTunes or sync Opus to iPhone , iPod , iPad via iTunes , or edit these Opus in iMovie and QuickTime . Under the circumstances , the best solution is to convert Opus to MP3 and other more compatible audio formats in order to play or edit Opus in the above popular players and devices . One of the posters mentioned that <URL> ( freeware ) can convert then to a playable format , MP3 , AAC etc. .
You can force Preview to prompt for save on quit with the following Terminal command : Quit and re-open Preview once and you will be prompted in future closes
Here is my little script to do what you are asking for . Tested on a couple of tracks on my iTunes 11 under Snow Leopard and it run just fine . EDIT : You can get a glimpse of what is going on by looking at the output it sents to the Events pane . Just run it inside the Applescript Editor and click on the Events &amp; Replies buttons to unhighlight them . EDIT2 : To limit the script you can change the line to
iTunes removed DRM from it 's music catalog in 2009 , so I 'm wondering if your question is about iTunes at all ? If not , you might be better off specifying what DRM scheme you have a question about . That said , iTunes used FairPlay for DRM before , and as explained <URL> , it does generate a unique key for every user . So , it will indeed be different for every customer . The same should be true for all DRM schemes , since if the customer could not be identified from the data inside the DRM scheme , it would defeat the purpose of DRM to start with . It is also worth noting that while DRM was removed from iTunes , current downloads still contain your Apple ID in the downloaded file . However , tool exists to remove this meta-data from the media .
Unfortunately , updating the files in Finder will not update the files in iTunes . This is because iTunes uses a file called iTunes Library.itl as a database of all your media . You can however use the automator actions " Get Specified iTunes Items " and " Set Info of iTunes Songs " to automat the process of updating the metadata . There are some other good Automator actions in there too .
Try <URL> as noted in the question for your MacBook Air and see if the problem persists . If the problem does persist it may be a failing temperature sensor , resulting in the fans running faster than normal to worst case fail-safe full-speed state , your only option at that point would be to take it to <URL> for repair / replacement .
I searched everywhere for a clean solution . Many solutions that worked for Lion and below no longer worked for Mountain Lion . However , this works and it took me hours to find . Enjoy ! <URL> From the website : In a search for a non-hacky way to disable direct mappings to iTunes for the play/pause/next / previous buttons in the keyboard in OSX , I stumbled across the " Remote control daemon " ( rcd ) . As it turns out , disabling the iTunes launch behavior for these keys is as easy as unloading rcd with the following command :
You could jailbreak your Apple TV and install Plex or XBMC and point them at your files . As new files are added , they should find them and let you play them . The nice thing with these two applications is that they will play a lot more than what Apple has decided the Apple TV will play on its own . If you do n't jailbreak your Apple TV , the only way to accomplish anything close to what you are after is to use iTunes Home Sharing . Unfortunately this requires another computer with iTunes running in order to connect and serve content . ( It does , however , work quite well , as I can attest , having done this with most of my media content . ) Since you want to get at TV content , it would have to be stored in a form that iTunes would import ( and you would have to figure out a way to import it automatically ) . At that point , you are probably going to find the jailbreak route the easier and better of the two . If you are looking for a direct interface from the Apple TV to manage the recording process ( e.g. , as in a Tivo-like recording interface ) , I know of nothing that does this , yet . The jailbreaking scene for the Apple TV ( 2nd generation ) is still pretty new , but they are doing new things every day .
Yes , it is possible however Apple seems to have gone to great lengths to try to prevent you from doing this . Especially if you meant without the use of any sort of app on the PC at all , as if it were simply a disk drive in explorer . That , I believe , is not possilble/practical without first jailbreaking your phone . If you do not have iOS 8 and you have not jailbroken your phone , I would suggest that you do while you still are able to and while it is a simple " one-button " process . While Pangu recently released a jailbreak for iOS 8 , it is reportedly still a bit buggy so I would wait a bit if you have iOS 8 . You would jailbreak your iPhone by downloading the pangu app on your PC from <URL> However , if you do n't want to jailbreak but you do n't want to use iTunes , there are a number of different " replacements " for iTunes . Many people even go so far as to completely remove iTunes from their system as well . Media Monkey is a rather full-featured replacement for iTunes that can do a number of things that iTunes can or will not . I personally liked MM when I was using it a year or two ago . They support Android as well . You can download it at <URL> Another option is called iFunbox . They recently revamped their software but luckily they deigned to keep the older version , calling it iFunbox classic . Here 's a quote from their website about it . " With iFunBox Classic included , you can still manage files on your iDevice with no jailbreak needed . Here 's some basic features : • Safe ipa package installation and easy access to files and resources in app sandbox . Learn More • Use your device as portable USB disk with hi-speed transmission beyond 20MB/s on iPhone and iPad . • Import and export songs , videos , photos and ringtones with iFunBox quick toolbox . You can find iFunbox at <URL> Hope this helps .
From this <URL> : What happens if I do not renew my iOS Developer Program membership ? Once your membership expires , your apps will no longer be available on the App Store and you will lose the ability to submit new apps . You will lose access to pre-release software , the Apple Developer Forums , Developer Technical Support , and the Certificate Utility . In addition , your existing iOS Distribution certificates will be revoked and invalidated . Finally , if you enrolled in the program as a company , you will lose the ability to manage your development team . You will , however , retain your status as a Registered Apple Developer and will have access to free development resources . In order to conserve your app on the AppStore , you must renew your iOS Developer Program . Hope this helps !
You could use iTunes DJ . Select the playlist that you want from the list in the left-hand corner . Then , you can right click on a song , and select " Play next in iTunes DJ "
Found the answer ! This feature is invisible and you have to know it 's there . To shuffle songs within a genre in your library , do the following : Tap the " My Music " tab . Tap the selection in the divider at the top between " Recently Added " and the music list . A drop down will appear where you can select a means to sort . Select " Genre " . You can use this same method to shuffle within other sorting schemes ( artists , albums , etc. ) Scroll to your desired Genre . Tap the IMAGE ( or gray square ) to the left of the Genre name , not the name itself . A song within that genre should start to play . When you tap the currently playing song name at the bottom , the currently playing song will expand up . Make sure the Shuffle icon is lit at the bottom . THAT 'S IT ! Enjoy ! If you have the " repeat " icon de-selected , playback will stop once all the songs in the selected genre have been played . Source ( apple forum ) : <URL>
To enable the Finder to show all files ( including " hidden " ones ) , you can type the following command in at the command prompt in Terminal : The first part sets a hidden preference so the finder shows all files ; the second part restarts the Finder so these preferences take effect ( killall on its own tells a program to quit ; the - HUP flag asks the program to restart ) . If you want to reverse this so that the Finder now hides the files it normally hides , type this in Terminal : If you are more comfortable using the GUI , there is a <URL> that lets you toggle this setting any many more , but it involves installing third-party software on your system . That said , your actual problem of disk space not being freed up when you " delete " files is actually by design . To permanently delete a file , you need to empty the Trash -- Mac OS X does n't delete files directly in the Finder ; it first moves them to a temporary storage on their original volume , and then when you Empty Trash ... in Finder , the files get deleted . Some users are reporting that is not working on their Mountain Lion systems but ( note the lower case ) is working . On my system running Mountain Lion , I am finding that the command works as written , but if it does n't for you , try lower-casing the F in Finder in defaults write statement .
It 's possible , but not without third-party software or scripting . You can use the <URL> to set this though : ( go to Vox → Preferences → Controls → Setup )
You can bring back those details at the bottom of the screen by clicking Show Status Bar in the View menu , or pressing ⌘ / .
To turn off iCloud Music Library on your mac , you need to go to : iTunes > Preferences > iCloud Music Library
I 'm afraid there is n't a solution currently available for this . I 've been using Nike + alongside Spotify for over a year now by starting my Spotify playlist then starting a run in Nike + and selecting " no music " . I used to use iTunes playlists which worked with the power song feature and while that was kinda cool it 's really not something I miss . You might email them through their support page ( could n't find a feedback form ) and mention it as a feature for future revisions . <URL>
end question
start question
Programmer new to Apple - How to efficiently switch between files in XCode ?
Xcode does support tabs . You can add a new one by pressing Command ⌘ + T , or go to View > Show Tab Bar to keep the bar open always so you can press the + button there . With multiple tabs , you can use Command ⌘ + { and Command ⌘ + } to cycle through them . As mentioned by bassplayer7 in the comments , you can also use multiple windows and cycle through them with Command ⌘ + ` ( backtick ) or Command ⌘ + ~ ( tilde ) . Additionally , you can have multiple documents open in one window using Assistant editors . Either use Navigate > Open in Assistant Editor , or click the icon which looks like a shirt and bow tie in your toolbar to bring the editor up . Then , you can use the little + in the upper-right corner of the editor to add more . The Navigate menu has several other useful options too , such as going through an editor 's history , various counterparts to a file ( headers , implementations , interfaces , ... ) , and switching focus between various portions of the window . As for the navigator , use groups to combine related files for easier access . Use File > New > Group or File > New > Group From Selection to add a group and rearrange things however you want . You can completely remove the original groups created in the original project if you want , since they are just for navigation and have no affect on the actual project .
There is no a way to do this in Xcode . It must be related to the project or workspace . It even does this if you deselect the target . It sounds like what you need is a text editor and not an IDE like XCode since XCode is built for OS X and iOS development primarily . You may want to try <URL> for free , or it 's purchasable counter part BBEdit . If your doing C/C + + , Python or PHP work , you may want to try some of the other <URL> products like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . There is also <URL> , with it 's many plugins , the heavy favorite amongst many developers .
Turned out it was n't a problem with the certificate after all , it was that the application signature used by parental controls changed when the certificate changed . This was fixed by manually editing the parental controls file to contain the new signature .
Either ... put the files in the Mac partition : Boot Camp has drivers for read/write to HFS + put the files in the Windows partition : install software on OS X such as <URL>
The option offered by techraf is one way to go , but I do think there is a built-in OS X option available that will meet your needs ( or most of them ) . In every OS X ' Open ' dialogue box or ' Save as ' dialogue box you have a drop-down menu which you can click on to select other locations . Clicking on this will also list your recent places and allows you to open from or save to these as needed . Depending on your setup , you may need to click on the arrow button appearing next to the field ( on the right ) to make the drop-down visible . As an aside ( and you 're probably aware of this - but for the benefit of others ) on a related note you can access recent applications and documents under Apple Menu > Recent Items . You can also increase/decrease the number of recent items listed here by accessing System Preferences > Appearance on older systems or System Preferences > General on newer ones . Hope this helps . [ EDIT ] Okay , here are some images showing an example of how to view recent places in Mac OS X Save As dialogue boxes and Open dialogue boxes . These examples are based on OS X El Capitan , but other versions also work in a similar fashion . <URL> <URL> Please note : Various applications may display these dialogue boxes differently , but all offer the ability to view recent places In my images , Desktop is shown in the Where drop-down menu . However , this may be different depending on your circumstances If you ca n't seem to see a list of recent places , make sure if there is an arrow next to the Save As field that it faces down ( see below ) <URL> Hope this helps !
You can only move spaces which are non-active . For example , lets say you have spaces 1 and 2 . If space 1 is active , you can not move it . You first have to select space 2 then you can move space 1 to a different monitor .
I looked for some generic commands that display/manipulate kernel extensions . got my attention and based on its output , the 4th column is The number of bytes of kernel memory that the kext occupies . If this is zero , the kext is a built-in part of the kernel that has a record as a kext for resolving dependencies among kexts . The only problem was that its size was in hexadecimal . So I converted the hexadecimal to decimal and printed only relevant information ( like kext bundle id ) . Breaking it down : - print a list of loaded non-built-in kexts - pipe the output to , convert the 4th " size " column from hexadecimal to decimal , print that and the kext bundle id . - pipe the output to command and sort the list using numerical comparison ( so that " 10 " is not less than " 1 " ) . You can pipe the output to to get top 3 memory hoggers . Here are mine : Update : you can also pipe this to to see which non-apple kexts are loaded .
Delete the app from / Applications and then re-download it from your preferred Apple ID . Launchpad deletion is a bit cleaner , but does the same thing , preserving user files created by Xcode , but deleting the application itself . Unless you stored project files in / Applications , you wo n't affect project files or user settings since they get stored by default in / Users
The naming convention of the image files in ~ / Library/Safari/Touch Icons is in the form of an unhyphenated UUID . If you bookmark a page that shows an icon for it under the Bookmarks menu , it ( the image ) is stored in the ~ / Library/Safari/WebpageIcons . db file , which is an SQLite version 3 database . Images stored within the database can be in different formats , e.g. . ico , . png , etc. . If you really want to change the icon , that 's in the database , I 've done it with <URL> .
this might help : <URL> long story short . Update dropbox is what they say . worked for me , so should work for you :)
Since you have BetterTouchTool , this is pretty easy . Simply choose whatever gestures you want to use for tab-switching and assign them the following keyboard shortcuts : These shortcuts are CtrlTab and CtrlShiftTab respectively . The first shortcut will switch to the next tab , and the latter will switch to the previous tab .
You have to add the following line to your Preferences → User Settings :
I think this behavior is fixed in the new update 10.11.1 . I tried it on both explorer and chrome on the same desktop and it switches to the other windows as expected .
You have to migrate all your code to Swift 1.2 if you 're using Xcode 6.3 . If you go to Edit > Convert > To Latest Swift Syntax , it will help find many of the changes . However , there 's still a lot of manual editing to do . In the long run , it will serve you better to keep your Swift code at the latest version so that future migrations are easier and so that you can take advantage of future enhancements to the language .
Yes - you can switch accounts on one device many many many times . Once you have associated that account with that device , it uses one of your 10 slots for the next 90 days . After then , that device does n't count as a " new device " for your limited slots . The text " You may switch an Associated Device to a different Account only once every 90 days " appears twice in the <URL> under two subsections : AUTOMATIC DELIVERY AND DOWNLOADING PREVIOUS PURCHASES - under the iTunes store AUTOMATIC DELIVERY AND DOWNLOADING PREVIOUS PURCHASES - under the Mac App , App Store and iBookstore So - if you take one of the many accounts that can exist on one device - only one account gets the " automatic " pushing of content purchases prior or elsewhere until the 90 day timeout expires . Other than that one restriction , think more about your account rather than the specific device . Accounts are intended for one person , so when you create it , you ca n't go and use it on 11 devices after the tenth new device your account hits , you need to wait 90 days from the first device to account pairing . It does n't matter what other accounts are on a specific device - its about your ID being used in the app store on multiple devices . For questions like this here are some nice references : <URL>
As you know , per your question , the preferences in the Preview app only apply to documents when first opened . It seems that OS X has a built in default view for full screen documents . I tried a couple things ... I opened a PDF to Full Screen and set the view to Continuous to see if this would stick and that view would be chosen next time I went full screen . Not the case . I searched every preference file related to Preview ( also using 10.9.2 ) and found no setting even indirectly related to a view setting specifically when in full screen . I 'd say , doing what you want is either not possible at all or at best it 'd require getting into a preference setting somewhere you would n't want to poke around with . My guess would be it 's a setting inside Preview.app 's package contents . Fooling around in there can get hairy As an alternative to setting a new default , the keyboard shortcut to switch to Continuous view is : So you can just quickly hit that each time you go full screen and the view changes immediately . It 's not exactly what you wanted , but it 's a very fast alternative . Hope that helps !
You have to hit the Left COMMAND key once and the mouse switches to finder and other apps . If you click inside of virtualbox it activates the virtual machine which in this case is ubuntu . ( This assumes that you are running in the default mode which captures on click ) . It 's confusing because it 's displayed with a left arrow , but what they really mean is the left COMMAND key . ( The one that looks like it has a four leaf clover on it ) . The key looks like this : ⌘ It 's also known as the Apple key . This key is on either side of the space bar . Each works the same . So for example if you wanted to print a document in Windows you could use the keyboard shortcut CONTROL + " P " ( Press the control key , continue to hold it while pressing the " P " key ) , on a Mac they use a different key - it 's the COMMAND Key not the CONTROL key so you need to press ⌘ and the letter " P " to print . So if you know several keyboard shortcuts for Microsoft Windows , just try them on the Mac but instead of using the CONTROL key substitute the COMMAND key . The CONTROL key , SHIFT key , OPTION key , and COMMAND key ( or Apple key as some like to call it ) , are all what 's called modifier keys . You press them to modify the function of other keys on your computer . However in Virtual Box they have mapped the left one , to the left of the spacebar to allow you to leave the virtual host 's screen and return to Apple 's Finder or any other program that 's currently running .
SBProfiles will let you set up profiles for lots of settings on your phone - including sound and vibration . Here 's a YouTube video : <URL> Intelliborn once had an app called MyProfiles ( <URL> ) but it has been discontinued and only works on iOS 4
For future reference I found <URL> perfectly ! That solution actually wraps the script mentioned in the other answer as an automator action to make it easier to use by those unfamiliar with Terminal . To re-create the service , use Automator to create a service that receives selected files and folders , select the Run shell script action , and paste pastix 's script into the script area .
When the App Store is " Installing " keep in mind this includes " Downloading " , and Xcode is usually about 4 GB . Leave it overnight or monitor your network traffic to see the progress . Once Xcode is installed , you will need to run to expand your path since tools like and compilers/linkers are in / Applications/Xcode and not in your typical bash path . You can go to settings and download the command line tools to keep them if decide to delete Xcode later .
end question
start question
What does . ipa stand for ?
Your guess was correct . stands for <URL> Each file is compressed with a binary for the ARM architecture that can only be installed on iOS devices . If you change the extension to you will be able to unzip it and view the contents .
There are arguments and reasons to go either way . First the facts we know ( excluding jailbreak and cracking app store DRM ) : You can never change the Apple ID for each purchase once made . However , with MDM solutions evolving and VPP , there is the ability to purchase apps in bulk and then revoke the " purchase " by a subsequent AppleID and return a purchase to the pool for re-issue to another AppleID on later iOS versions . Perhaps that will come to the Mac at some future point . Apple has a <URL> to make the App Store work better for business use . The consumer level <URL> also exists to let one party pay and another redeem . You can change the payment option on your account with great ease . There is a 5 account limit on most devices . Updating apps is a chore each time you have to : get updates for account A go to store preferences enter account B and the password go back to the app store for updates update again - entering password B a second time go to store preferences enter account A and the password iTunes only backs up apps for which that computer is authorized . ( this can be a benefit or a hassle ) Now for some assumptions and commentary . Starting from the simplest scenario , you will either have to use a work credit card or work gift card on your personal Apple ID ( juggling the payment options and providing these receipts to account for these purchases just like you would a cup of coffee , a hotel room and other petty expenses that the business just writes off . ) Having a " work " id means in theory - the work could ask you for the password ( or force a reset of the password since they would likely maintain control of the email or request/force you to put their email as the contact when you leave the company ) . They could then issue that Apple ID to another person that would then have use of the apps you once purchased . In practice - how would you feel getting a " recycled " Apple ID as the new employee or the boss welcoming a new team member . Even $ 1000 a year in app purchases pales in comparison to the training costs to a business for losing an employee . Company " ownership " of these app purchases is not a big deal in practice . If you ask your employees to switch in the business account - what happens when someone fails to do that - you 'll end up with an expense report anyhow or you 'll have a grumpy employee . Banning personal Apple ID is a potential solution as well . That also is demeaning to someone that 's going to be taking their work on the go with them - especially if work did n't buy the hardware . There are times when I really want my work persona to be totally different than my personal . Having that work Apple ID separate from my home ID does n't seem to work at all to have that separation . I would not be able to remember to switch my account - I would go to purchase - see the password and enter it . About half way through the download I would realize my mistake . I can see this working for some , but think through this if you embark on a two ID strategy . I would draft an addendum to your normal expense reporting policy to call for quarterly reports ( if you do n't report these expenses as they happen ) , urge you to use existing work credit cards to buy gift cards or have one work account gift apps to users that do n't need many or are getting started . Once your company hits thousands of dollars of apps - you can look into the <URL> which still lets the business send redemption codes to individual Apple ID . Make it a point to educate everyone - an executive summary ( this is what we 're doing / how it will be controlled ) as well as a detailed guide - who does what and when . Once you think it through - the idea of work asking for a work Apple ID might make as little sense to you as it does to me . I would however , be sensitive to the finance department - the have long held practices on how to purchase software . Sitting down with them and showing them my purchase history and educating them how this all works . Handing them my phone and letting them buy an app - seeing it download and start using it is an eye opener .
I would recommend using TextEdit since it is free and the default text editor on OS X . You only need to learn a key shortcut ( Shift-Command-T ) to convert the current file to plain text . Of course other GUI text editors exist on Mac platform but they need to be installed from the App Store or from Internet ( see other answers for a selection of the most popular ones ) . There is even a setting in TextEdit to let all new documents start as plain text going forward : Again , this setting is for new documents , so if a document is already open , ⇧ ⌘ T ( Format > Make Plain Text ) instantly converts a rich text document to plain text .
This might help <URL> " The Lion Recovery Disk Assistant lets you create Lion Recovery on an external drive that has all of the same capabilities as the built-in Lion Recovery : reinstall Lion , repair the disk using Disk Utility , restore from a Time Machine backup , or browse the web with Safari . "
It means either when the device is unable to determine if a message has been delivered over the iMessage transport successfully . When a successful delivery occurs you see a little ' Delivered ' notification below the message in the history , and after a period you should have the option to resend as an SMS or the recipient has no registration with the iMessage server to indicate that it could use the iMessage transport and will use SMS instead .
This is Clear key . From <URL> : A Clear key , instead of a Num Lock key , on models with full numeric keypads , as these are dedicated to numeric input and not generally used for cursor control . In Unicode , the Clear key is represented by U +2327 ⌧ x in a rectangle box , defined as " clear key " Here are some Stack answers about the usage : <URL>
Here or the specifications used by Apple 's official charging cords . 5 volts 1.0 amps If your interested in making one for iPads you can use 5.1 Volts and 2.1 Amps <URL>
You can only dial emergency numbers , which vary by country/region ( 911 in the US ; certain countries such as France have multiple emergency numbers ) . Dialing regular numbers produces the following error : Starting with iOS 8 , you may also dial emergency contacts by opening your Medical ID . Interestingly , as of iOS 9.3.4 , if you have one of those numbers memorized , you can not punch it in directly . You must go through the Medical ID to ring it up .
When you are blocking URL in iOS you only block them for Safari and applications using an in-app browser . So you wo n't be able to block Facebook that way .
Current Period refers to the period of time since the last reset . This is nothing to do with the cellular plan . You can see the beginning date of the current period by scrolling to the bottom and looking at the date under the reset option . If you have never reset the counter , it has been counting up like the odometer of a car since you started the OS at a clean restore .
Apple has a very nice explanation of how Migration Assistant works , what steps and accessories you need and much more : <URL> In a nutshell , Migration Assistant has three bins of data to move : Applications ( just the programs - no user data or settings transfer ) Users ( the user data , settings , preferences , saved files and such - but no Applications . You could have all your Word docs , but no Word to edit them in this case ) Everything else that 's not an App or a User . This gets oddball things like / Users/Shared files and folders that do n't belong to one user , unix and command line tools like homebrew that get installed outside / Applications and / Users . So with three check marks ( let 's assume you do n't have multiple users ) , there are 7 combinations you could migrate - each leaving a different set of data on the destination Mac . ( If Applications was A , Users was B , and Everything else C ) You could combine them as follows : A , B , C , A+B , B+C , A+C , or A+B+C I would say , you get to experiment when you get your new Mac . Run the migration you think is best , and then test it . If you do n't like it , erase the destination Mac ( booting into recovery mode , erasing the HD and re-install a clean OS might take 25 minutes on a fast network - the OS download is 4 Gb or so ) and re-run the assistant . For me , I would recommend both migrating from your Backup and then optionally re-migrating from the old Mac . It 's important to test your backup - when was the last time you tested a restore to be sure you have a viable backup ? Everyone says " make sure you back up " but they really mean and might be better saying is , " make sure you can restore your backup and it has what you need ! " I would encourage you to configure your Time Machine on the old Mac to exclude any things you do n't want moved to the new Mac , make a back up and write down the time of the back up . Then eject the backup drive and change the backup settings to back everything up again . You could take that " latest " backup and Migrate it to the new Mac and test for a while ( re-connecting the backup drive to the old Mac ) to keep your " main " Mac backing up . As you test the new mac for a day or so , you can decide it 's time to move over . At that point , turn off Time Machine on the old Mac and connect the backup drive to the new Mac . It will offer to " inherit " the old backups and you can move forward . Worst case , you still have the backups to restore something needed and then can clear the old Mac for donation , sale or mothballing .
The data returned from Backblaze ought to be correctly recognised by the Mac . Folders like iPhoto have a special structure that the Mac shows you as a single file , but in reality it is just a folder . In the same way , Applications are , in fact , folders too - but the Mac hides the structure from you by default . This is what your iPhoto Library looks like on Backblaze ... When you get your drive , you may have to point iPhoto &amp; similar apps [ Aperture , iMovie , Final Cut Pro all have similar structures for their Libraries ] to that ' folder ' initially , but it should then be treated as your regular Library . Edit : I just tested this empirically by downloading my entire iPhoto Library from Backblaze . When it arrived , it was in its original disk/folder hierarchy ; so had that been an emergency situation I could have copied the entire structure right back to where it came from . Initially , it looked like a regular folder , but [ a step you may not need to take if everything is restored to its original locations ] launching iPhoto with the Opt ⌥ key down to choose a new Library &amp; selecting that folder - as soon as it had finished loading to iPhoto , the ' proper ' iPhoto Library icon &amp; ' hidden ' structure was restored to it .
Power Nap will receive user level data for any users that are logged in . If you have fast user switching enabled and both accounts are logged in when the Mac goes to sleep , both should get updates . If there is a bug , it could be reported , but in the light testing I 've done , everything seems to work well for users that have logged in . If the user is not logged in , updates currently do not occur ( OS X v10 .8.2 ) .
Apple implements tethering , so if your app proxies TCP/IP traffic directly , you will probably run afoul of several aspects of the review process . Clearly , if your app is doing things to add value to the network you 'll likely have more legs to stand on that your app is n't just the same implementation as carrier tethering : linking IOT type devices speak protocols other than just TCP/IP allow filtering , reporting , proxy , QOS controls Like all app submissions , your milage may vary . You can do the work and take your chances or you can line up a big customer and sell the app B2B style if you are worried about Apple deciding to pass on your app .
Basically you have to decide what is most important to you . Do you want to have the widest range of content offerings ( Roku ) , or the best compatibility between other Apple devices and software ( Apple TV ) ? The Roku box for example can play Hulu and Hulu Plus . The Hulu service is in very high demand and a very good content stream for the Roku . The Apple TV at this time will not play it out of the box , although it can be hacked to do so . The biggest advantage that the Apple TV has is if you own or plan to use an iOS device in conjunction with it . For example , you can use AirPlay to stream music , photos , video , and apps to your Apple TV . This can be very handy in many situations . If you do n't already have an iPhone , iPad , or the like - and do n't plan on getting one anytime soon , then this should n't be a big draw . The Apple TV also works flawlessly with iTunes . For example you can use iTunes Match then stream the audio to your Apple TV very easily . Roku can do some similar things with iTunes , but is does not have the same level of integration . Overall , both devices have benefits and downsides , it just depends what you think your primary use will be and what hardware ecosystem you have . For more detailed information I would take a look at <URL> .
OneNote stores things in an application container in your user 's Library folder . Open Finder and use the go to folder function and paste The current version has an offline data file in a 15.0 subfolder . You can snoop on the program when it 's running to see what files and ports are open .
<URL> : The Trojan [ FlashBack ] targets a Java vulnerability on Mac OS X . The system is infected after the user is redirected to a compromised bogus site , where JavaScript code causes an applet containing an exploit to load . An executable file is saved on the local machine , which is used to download and run malicious code from a remote location . The malware also switches between various servers for optimised load balancing . Each bot is given a unique ID that is sent to the control server . . The trojan , however , will only infect the user visiting the infected web page , meaning other users on the computer are not infected unless their user accounts have been infected separately , this is due to the UNIX security system . For a lengthier , more technical description , read <URL> .
Simple answer : No . Apple does not allow iOS to run anywhere else but iOS devices ( iPhone , iPad , iPod touch ) and the Xcode simulator . You could simulate OS X on your Windows VM application and then use Xcode to simulate an iOS device , but this would be really taxing on your computer and really not worth the effort , but you can not simulate iOS directly on Windows because of chipsets and Apple preventing it .
I 'm not sure that Tivoli gets these finer details absolutley correct . In terms of backing up files and applications these are fine , but when it comes to passwords , attributes and preferences etc , then no , not always . I have just spoken to a pal who uses IBM systems in a Mac and PC magazine publishing environment and prefers his staff on Macs to use Time Machine as the standard back-up to their servers , rather than the PC users who use Tivol as standard .
I have used 2 for iPhone , and have eventually gone back to the Mobile View as it was considerably better than either : <URL> : Free . Worked OK , but you ca n't actually log in , you can merely track yourself as a user without being able to actually do anything <URL> : $ .99 . Looked great , but soon worked out that by Stack Exchange it actually meant just SO , and not the SE network - wasted dollar . As for iPad , there are only 2 available that work on iPad : <URL> <URL> And they both suck ( imho ) . For a start , FullStack only supports the Trilogy sites and Ask Ubuntu , so not the whole network . And while " Answers for " covers all sites , it shares a further letdown with Fullstack in that neither of them allow you to actually log in and do anything other than browse . This ( as per the comments ) may be because the API calls do not allow posting , but there is no reason why an App developer can not use the APIs where they are available , and also put in a normal HTML webview of the actual site to finish of the missing parts - using the API does not limit you to only using the API if you are writing an app . The mobile web view is far superior in every respect unless you are looking for non interactive bedtime reading . One noted problem with the mobile view is that Chat does not seem to recognise the fact that you are logged in , meaning that while transcripts are available , you can not enter a room and participate . In addition to the above , <URL> yeilds the following results , which are either deprecated , or were never fully released and may be interesting to read up on. : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you are wanting a native iOS app for reasons such as getting push notifications , you can easily bodge up a system for allowing push notifications for your inbox to be sent to you iOS device . You will need the following : An account with <URL> An account with <URL> Your Boxcar account linked into IFTTT A task within IFTTT that says IF RSS - New feed item from apple.stackexchange.com/feeds/user/9495/responses ( change to your own user ID ) THEN Boxcar - Send a message to my inbox The Boxcar app downloaded and installed on your iOS device . Then , whenever you get a notification ( an answer to your question , a comment on your answer , a shout in Chat etc ) in your SE global inbox , it will send you a message into Boxcar , that may look something approaching the following : You can customise the wording in the notification , but I have stuck to the defaults in this example . Note , that the IFTTT feed checks currently run every 15 minutes .
end question
start question
How do I get Launchpad to see apps on an external disk ?
I just figured this out . All I had to do was drag the folder containing the apps to the Launchpad icon on the dock .
I think you 've dragged the right edge of the middle list all the way to the right , which then hides the preview of the messages . If you hover your mouse of the right edge of the scroll bar on the right you should get the draggable crosshair mouse pointer . Hold it and drag left and you should get the previews back .
After a bit of research ( in the stores themselves , using Google , and in the Apple Developer Program resources ) , I 'm rather sure no list of these is available from Apple themselves or from any third party . I found the best ways to find the apps tagged as " Essentials , " is to look in these places : Both the Mac App Store and the iTunes App Store have a link on their front page called " New to the ( Mac ) App Store ? " Most apps listed there , which are not games , have the " Essentials " badge . It 's not the way to find them all though , as e.g. the WolframAlpha app you mentioned is not listed on that page in the iTunes Store . There are also some apps which do n't have the badge , e.g. Shazam is tagged as " Editors ' Choice , " but not " Essentials " in the Mac App Store . The iTunes App Store also has a link " App Collections . " Although the page this link leads to is titled " Essentials App Collections , " quite a number of the apps listed in the collections do n't have the " Essentials " badge . On the other hand , you can find a lot of " Essentials " this way . My impression is the difference between the " Essentials " tag and e.g. " Editors ' Choice " is not very well defined , and just picked by a specific Apple store editor . And I noticed some of those apps may be only essential to a very specific crowd . E.g. the djay 2 app , also tagged " Essentials , " is most definitely the best and most popular DJ app for the iPad out there , but it 's only essential to a select group . In the end , although there is no definitive list , going though the various collections made by Apple editors , will lead you to a lot of " Essential " apps .
I had this same issue after I recreated my iTunes library . This may be totally off because it was about a month ago , but I think I did this : canceled the sync clicked on the iPod under devices or whatever ( maybe I secondary clicked ) I think after I clicked ( or secondary clicked ) on it , there was an option to copy purchased items Sorry this is so vague , it 's been awhile :) on edit : I just tested this out by alt clicking iTunes , creating a new library , and connecting my iPod . It 's pretty much exactly how I described . cancel the sync secondary click the iPod on the left click " transfer purchases " Afterwards , you can sync , and everything will be erased and rewritten to the iPod . I 'm not sure why Apple makes this so confusing . The only reason I can come up with is that they want people to have to repurchase stuff but that seems a little over the top even from Apple .
This can even be done in Time Machine : Choose the 5 TB HDD as only Time Machine backup drive ( OK , my disks are smaller ) : <URL> Then exclude your internal drive by adding it to the excluded items - the backup drive is excluded automatically : <URL> The final result : You get a folder Backups.backupdb with one folder vm ( the name of my Mac ) containing folders ( with date names representing the backup date ) and each with two folders representing the two drives ( Data1 and Encrypted ) . I added and modified files successively on both volumes and initiated a backup after each step . <URL> Needless to say : it 's recommended to backup your main drive/system drive also !
You need to run VLC . In VLC , go to the Video menu and the Fullscreen Video Device menu and choose which screen you want to use for fullscreen video playback .
The sparsebundle is how Time Machine backs up using the network method . The Backups.backupdb method is how it backs up when the drive is hooked up locally therefore you ca n't make it create a sparse bundle if its connected locally because that 's the way time machine works . If you want it to make a sparse bundle you have to backup through a network . It should not make a difference to you since you 'll be accessing it through time machine without having to worry about files etc. .
You can see music thats specifically downloaded to your device , and only that music by going to : Settings > Music You will see an option for ' Show All Music ' Turn this off . This will not delete any songs in iCloud nor change any other settings in your device or delete accounts related to iCloud or iTunes Match , this simply does what your requesting , only displaying actively downloaded music/videos . In fact , you can leave iTunes Match enabled and the results will conclude the same in your favor . EDIT You can delete music thats downloaded to your phone in batches ( currently by Artists only ) . However you can delete specific albums from that artist . The following guide will take you to the respective settings : Settings > General > Usage > Manage Storage ( regular storage not iCloud storage ) > Music Here you will see a list of downloaded music only . This is also where audiobooks are located ! Cheers !
Disk Utility in many respect is powered by <URL> , a command line utility that deals with file systems ( not just the one found on OS X ) . The option to verify ( and repair ) your disk deals with the health of the file system ( HFS + ) and the integrity of the data that resides on it , rather than the physical disk . It looks at how the data is stored and not if the drive is reporting mechanical errors ( to some extent this is reported by the S.M.A.R.T status ) . However it should stand to reason that a hardware fault will likely permeate through the file system structure ( though not always ) . Is Disk Utility good at finding hardware issues ? No , not really . It 's meant more to isolate problems with your data set than it is your hardware . There of course is some continuity there but they are not monogamous . DiskWarrior and Drive Genius will undoubtedly do a much better job diagnosing the physical health of your drive . But none are as powerful as the utilities released by your respective hard drive manufacturer . If you can use those , then all the better . Using multiple tools may also prove to be an affective strategy . Another avenue which can help in discovery is to comb your Console 's logs for anomalies . I 've had a WD disk exhibit strange behaviors and first became cognizant of the problem by way of a single error during the initial boot up sequence . Google and WD 's native Windows diagnostic tools helped me isolate the issue ( to some degree ) .
If you go to the Purchases tab in App Store and click on a software title , the description of the app is presented in all its full glory , with screen shots , customer ratings &amp; everything else .
You can see all purchases made through the iOS App Store within iTunes ( on OSX or Windows ) : Start iTunes Log into the Store in the Store menu Show Account Details ( in the Store menu as well ) Shopping Statistics ( do n't know how it 's called in the english version , it 's the third block from the top )
It 's not that easy since iPhoto uses a database to track the files . When you trash the file , it simply removes the reference to that photo in whatever events and albums it used to be included . It makes a reference to the original and modified files , so they do n't actually get moved into a folder that you can get a quick estimate on the total trash size . These pointers to a photo are so small that they are a rounding error compared even to the size of a small thumbnail of your photo . The best way is to just get an estimate how large the typical picture you take is and see how much space a thousand of them take . You 'll then be able to know if emptying the trash has any chance on making a difference size wise .
According to <URL> , the 3rd gen iPod Touch can be upgraded to iOS 5 . However , you may want to confirm that your iPod is not a 2nd gen version - those can only be upgraded to 4.2.1 . <URL> has the following information to confirm your version ( <URL> ) : iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) features a 3.5-inch ( diagonal ) widescreen multi-touch display and 32 GB or 64 GB flash drive . You can browse the web with Safari and watch YouTube videos with Wi-Fi . You can also search , preview , and buy songs from the iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store on iPod touch . The iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) can be distinguished from iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) by looking at the back of the device . In the text below the engraving , look for the model number . iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) is model A1288 , and iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) is model A1318 . Also , per <URL> - make sure that you 've upgraded to iTunes 10.5 before you begin the upgrade .
Since you must boot Windows 7 from the internal SSD , and since you also want to run Mac OS X from the same volume , I recommend that you concentrate on cleaning out your existing Mac OS X system and freeing up as much disk space as possible . You should research on how to make the smallest Windows installation possible , so you can create the smallest BootCamp partition possible . From what I can see , you could do with as little as 12GB if you are meticulous . For instance , once Windows is installed , you can permanently disable and reduce or limit the size of , and this will save you many GB . I would also look into the differences between the size of the installation in Windows 7 32-bit versus 64-bit , and see if Windows 7 Ultimate takes up a great deal more space than Windows 7 Professional or Windows 7 Home Premium ( I suspect it does ) . You will want to refrain from installing any features of Windows that you decide you do n't need , and you will want to make sure that you do n't install any Windows applications that you do n't absolutely need . Here are some links to discussions I found . I can not vouch for any of these methods . <URL> at Tom 's Hardware <URL> at Microsoft TechNet There is a utility for reducing the size of a Windows installation before you actually install it . It is called <URL> . It is not exactly kosher and has its detractors . I have no personal experience with it . To use it , you need a working Windows system to configure a special custom installer DVD that vLite helps you create . <URL> , a discussion of the benefits of vLite and how many GB you can save . Regardless , you are going to have to wipe the internal drive on your MacBook Air and try different partitioning schemes , so you must have yet another a large external hard drive for making backups of the system you already have . Use <URL> or <URL> . On the Mac side , there is a lot you can do to reduce the size of your Mac OS X partition by removing components of Lion that you do not need . Make a complete backup disk image first before you start deleting things ! Similarly , it is possible to permanently delete the Mac OS X file , which will save you the same amount of disk space as the amount of RAM that you have . <URL> <URL> utility for controlling the sleepimage file Delete the contents of , which could be several GB , and when you restart your Mac , Lion will prompt you to download only the drivers for the printers you actually use . You should completely remove any applications in iLife that you do n't use , including all their support files in the / Library / folder . iDVD , GarageBand and iPhoto have many GB of support files , themes , templates , and audio files , and if you do n't use any one of those programs , you can clean out that disk space . Utilities such as <URL> can remove more than 1GB from your Mac OS X installation by removing all the files for languages ( Spanish , French , German , etc. ) that you will not use . Use <URL> or <URL> to examine your Mac OS X installation and look for user documents that you feel safe in archiving and removing , or deleting . There is an analogous freeware tool for Windows called <URL> .
Whole disks , no , but partitions , yes . While the Disk Utility GUI application can not , the command-line utility <URL> . First , come up with a password ( such as ) . I believe this is not tied to your login password , unlike encrypting the boot volume . Then , find out the identifier for the target volume , e.g. : Then , use , like so :
<URL> Freeware benchmarking solution for Mac OS X. EDIT : The download link is in the right-hand corner . Main Window Graphics Test
For some reason or another , Apple has made it impossible to access junk messages from a Smart Mailbox . If you are able to set to Junk , you must be setting it to a special ' Junk ' mailbox that you have created ( or that was created automatically by whatever email service you connect to ) . So , messages in Mail 's built-in Junk folder wo n't appear in your mailbox . However , you can get around this without too much trouble . To do this , make a Mail rule that automatically moves junk mail to your special Junk mailbox . Here 's how : Go to Mail - > Preferences - > Rules . Click Add Rule . Set the description to something like . Set the popup in the first box to . Set the first popup in the second box to , and use the second popup to select your special junk box . Now , any incoming messages that Mail thinks are junk will go to your special junk mailbox . You can use this one in a Smart Mailbox . Hope this helps !
There is a <URL> which allows you to publish your books . <URL> .
In a Terminal , use the following command : This will output the fully qualified pathnames of files in which the metadata stores used by Spotlight classify it as some type of movie . Example output from a movie taken on my iPhone and transferred to iPhotos on my Mac , one of the lines outputted by <URL> is : " QuickTime movie " , which have a extension was just one of extension types that showed as " $ some_type_of movie " . So you will probably see other file extensions as well .
As long as you log in on both iOS devices with your same login from Apple ( or backup and install them with the same login on your Mac/PC with iTunes ) , you will be able to use the same apps and other data without the need to purchase them again . You can still manage your apps separately for each device : For instance , iTunes will keep them apart ( you get to name each device yourself ) , and you can install different sets of apps and photos , music and all on the devices . But anything that comes from the App Store is linked to your Apple ID login - and once you 've purchase something with your ID , you can install it on all your devices .
end question
start question
How to safely do a factory reset , lend my iPad , then restore it ?
that should work fine . Do your full backup Go into General - > reset - > reset all content and settings This COMPLETELY wipes the IOS device so your friend will set it up as if it were new . When you get it back ask him to do the same thing first , in case they set a password . Sometimes if you have a PIN set you have to enter that to wipe it . But your scenario should work fine
On a general level , I 'd personally secure a jailbroken phone by re-enabling the code signing restrictions of iOS , ensure sandbox requirements are upheld and turn off all remote access . Furthermore , disabling all root accounts and choosing secure passwords for all remaining accounts that your specific jailbreak process creates or modifies would be prudent . Apple has teams of people to police third party apps , set up sandboxes , audit security , etc ... When you jailbreak , you take responsibility for all of those activities which carries a large technical burden to know what to check in the first place and then how to secure things . At some point , this exercise becomes a bit metaphysical - Do you trust Apple to engineer and watch the device ? Do you trust yourself to be up on securing unix systems ( <URL> is a fabulous book ) ? Do you trust the jailbreak to document what changes it has made and allow you the control over security you desire ? There are clearly times when a jailbroken phone ( in the hands of a knowledgable operator ) can be more secure than Apple 's current iOS if it patches a vulnerability that you need to have closed now and not when Apple patches it - but for most , sticking as close to Apple 's configuration as possible is the best plan from a security stance .
The Macbook Air should have shipped with a small USB drive that contains the installation software . It wo n't be easy to do what you want to without booting from something other than the System disk in your Mac . Assuming you have the USB drive that shipped with the Macbook Air ( you should have unless there is a good reason why you do n't have it ) , you should insert it and boot from it , by holding the option ( alt ) key just after you hear the chime when turning the machine on . After holding the option key for a short while , you will be presented with a choice of boot volumes , one of which should be the OS X installer . Run the installer and follow the instructions to reinstall the OS , at which point you should be given the option to wipe the current install and start fresh . If you want extra security , you can use the Disk Utility while in the installation mode , by choosing it from the Utilities menu that is at the top of the screen . From there you can erase the disk , choosing from a range of security options when doing so . If you do n't have the USB drive you will have to obtain one somehow - which may mean taking the Mac to an Apple Store . Failing that , maybe you 'll be able to acquire a install disk image from some place on the web and install it to an external drive that you can boot from . Not going to help with that though .
Go for it ! You 'll lose the jail break ( duh ! ) but it 'll restore to a normal state like any other iPhone .
There is unfortunately no way to do this on a situational basis . My suggestion would be to just set it to immediately and get used to entering in your passcode every time . It 'll be a habit before you know it !
No . A device technician is needed to unlock firmware . Start with online AppleCare and they can go over your options . Find My Mac just handles user account passwords .
I ended up buying the unlock service even though I did n't have the original sim card . Fortunately the unlock service was n't able to unlock the iPhone 5S so they refunded me my money . I ended up going to the mobile operator and explaining my case , and even though I was on contract and had recently bought the phone , they agreed to unlock it . I might 've been lucky or it might 've been some new law against locking the new iPhones , however the person in the other country was able to activate the iPhone after the unlocking without the original sim card . The carrier the iPhone was locked to was Telenor and was based in Sweden .
There is a default application named in OS-X for editing images . If you created any screen shots , just open that screenshot image in application and you can see the edit toolbar to edit the image .
It uses <URL> . But that 's a bit of a marketing term in so much as there is not one single thing called Quartz , but a group of things that work together to make the system called Quartz . Specifially , Quartz encompasses the set of systems needed to do rendering ( Quartz 2D ) , font management , graphics card interaction ( Quartz Compositor ) , OpenGL support , 3D acceleration and what not . The Quartz Compositor is the piece of the Quartz bundle that provides the server and window compositing and management features normally performed by the XServer and XClient pair . An addendum to this question might be : why did n't Apple just use X11 and the X Server ? And there 's <URL> from one of the primary Quartz developers : What Apple is providing is an Apple-original window system that is graphics model agnostic , as well as a vector drawing system that maps very well to PDF , which is a sort of PostScript without the non-graphical operators . This is packaged under the name ' Quartz ' for easy reference by Marketing types . The window system is designed to support both buffered ( like an offscreen PixMap ) and unbuffered windows , and is graphics model agnostic , working equally well with QuickDraw , OpenGL , the Quartz drawing engine , X11 , and third party solutions , and managing window geometry for the Classic , Carbon , and Cocoa environments . The server portion is a hybridization of screen arbiter and compositor models ( and if that 's all Geek to you , do n't worry about it ) . The Quartz drawing engine supports drawing primitives similar to the graphics primitives that might be found in the DPSClient single-operator primitives library for X and NeXTSTEP . There are no math and flow control primitives , as these can be done more efficiently in the native compiled code . There are no DPS or PS wrappers , as this optimization for server-side graphics is not needed in the Quartz client-side graphics model . The operations provide imaging and path construction and filling operations as well as some interesting other bits that map well into the direction that 2D drawing is headed . ( See Longhorn , or the X raster projects . ) The drawing engine can output to rasters ( like a window ! ) , as well as PS and PDF streams to feed printers . The Mac OS X printing system takes advantage of the capabilities of Quartz to support all sorts of printers , and make the life of printer driver developers much , much easier . Things we 'd need to add/extend in X Window software ( protocol + server + manager + fonts + ... ) : Extend font server and services to vend outlines and antialiased masks , support more font types , handle font subsetting . Extend drawing primitives to include PS-like path operations . Add dithering and phase controls . Add ColorSync support for drawing and imaging operations , display calibration Add broad alpha channel support and Porter-Duff compositing , both for drawing in a window and for interactions between windows . Add support for general affine transforms of windows Add support for mesh-warps of windows Make sure that OpenGL and special video playback hardware support is integrated , and behaves well with all above changes . We find that we typically stream 200 Mb/sec of commands and textures for interactive OpenGL use , so transport efficiency could be an issue . So , yes , it looks like we can use X for Quartz . All we need do is define extensions for and upgrade the font server , add dithering with phase controls to the X marking engine , add a transparency model to X imaging with Porter-Duff compositing support , make sure GLX gets in , upgrade the window buffering to include transparency , mesh warps , and really good resampling , and maybe augment the transport layer a bit . Ummm ... There does n't appear to be much code left from the original X server in the drawing path or windowing machinery , and it does n't appear that apps relying on these extensions can work with any other X server . Just what did we gain from this ? Oh , yeah . My mom can run an xterm session on her desktop now without downloading the Apple X11 package , a shareware X server or buying a software package . Been there , evaluated that .
Erasing a hard drive with Recovery HD ( or better - a flash drive ) will remove everything . You do n't need to do a NVRAM/SMC reset ( you can if you 'd like )
As time goes by , you make various edits to a given file , and Time Machine will make progressive backups of that file . Backups continue so long as there is available storage space upon the hard drive . When hard drive space runs out , older file backups are discarded . To perform a restore , one can perform a full system restore , which returns the entirety of your Mac file system contents to the latest files and structure that had been backed up . Alternatively , you can browse through the progressive backups using a Finder-like interface , and choose specific files or folders to restore . For more in-depth descriptions , it is worthwhile to read Pondini 's <URL> .
Prerequisites : -- admin account &amp; password -- AFP-share &amp; server IP-address Boot the Computer to Recovery Mode . Open Terminal in the Utilities menu At the prompt enter : Create a sub-directory in Volumes as a mount point for your time machine share : Enter Enter . pwd should show / Volumes/TimeMachine Mount the network share with your admin loginname &amp; password : If your password contains wonky characters like :@ \ / use <URL> to <URL> them Enter : . Note the exact name of your sparsebundle . Enter : . You may enter the first letters of the sparsebundle name and then hit TAB . Hitting tab should auto-complete the Time Machine sparsebundle name . It may not look the same as above as it escapes spaces and special characters . After auto-completing the name , hit return . If you return to the prompt the sparsebundle has been opened . Enter and ⏎ and quit Terminal . Example steps 3-11 : Select and click Continue . After a search it should show you the Time Machine Backups directory as a volume that contains your backup . Select that ( in my example ' Time Machine Backup ' ) and click Continue . In the next screen you will see all the backups that you can restore from listed by time and date . Select the backup you want to restore and continue and finally choose your destination disk :
Try the following steps : 1 : Start the video from YouTube whilst in Safari . 2 : Hit Home key once . You 'll exit Safari and playback will stop . 3 : Double-tap Home key to bring up the app-switcher . Slide to the right to bring up background audio controls . The icon on the right side will show whichever program you last used with background audio : Safari . 4 : Press Play . Youtube audio will resume playback .
Absolutely ! You 'll need a program to rip the Blu-Rays to your computer , then you 'll need a program to convert them to a format that your iPad can understand ( like <URL> ) . <URL> .
iOS 8.4 is not an open beta , so you have to be registered Apple developer ( 99 $ a year ) to use beta software on your iOS device . Also note that getting the software-package is not enough . You 're devices UID has to be registered with apple so it will activate when you install the beta software .
I am assuming this process will work out to be the same as the current situation with iPhones : Backup your iPad using iTunes . Plug new iPad into same computer . Restore new iPad from old iPad backup . When this is done with an iPhone , the new iPhone will be configured exactly as the old one - save games , email apps , photos , everything is transfered . What happens is actually that the backup contains all app data + configuration . The rest is basically a list of stuff that should be synced from your computer to the device ( e.g. music , photos , apps ) .
" 128 kbps AAC " - tells the system to convert audio to AAC encoded files at a quality of 128kbps so this conversion is what is taking the CPU . AAC is only for audio/video and nothing to do with still images
Try to hold on option key and click the " green " button .
UPDATE : With XCode 7 it is now possible to deploy an app on your own iOS9 + device for free . Only if you need to publish your app to the AppleStore will you need the paid membership . See qqbenq 's answer for more details . Without being a member , you can only run your app in the simulator . You must be a paid member to be able to install the app on a device . <URL> : Start developing for iOS and Mac OS X with the Xcode IDE , Dashcode , Instruments , Interface Builder , iOS Simulator and a suite of additional developer tools . <URL> : Test and debug your code on iPad , iPhone and iPod touch to finalize your applications .
Two things might work in your case : Power off the Mac and hope an unerase utility can recover the files before they get overwritten ( assuming the restore did n't write over the existing files on disk ) . Delete the folder and try again from a different Time Machine snapshot .
end question
start question
Does Battery Usage/Percentage need to be calibrated again ?
Discharging the battery once in a while ( every few Months ) is not a must but does help calibrating , for the system to be more accurate waring you on low levels . Over time charging and discharging creates a more inaccuracy of the actual level . For example if you plug in at 40 % , unplug at 80 % and so on . The reason is that the system uses the last known battery charge to produce the % , thus assumes the battery charge level . However if the battery was not discharged for long time , the remaining charge could be wrong ( due to batter aging ) . Discharging to not less than 20 % once in a while helps the accuracy . Since there is a opposite effect ( to frequent full discharge ) will shorten the battery life , you should only do this every few months .
I would err on the side of caution and wipe any server that you see odd behavior on that was exposed to the public internet in general without a logging firewall and/or some sort of tripwire or security scan set up to compare what changed since installation . I think one of my OS X servers was compromised for the first time ever during this bash scripting vulnerability window . The time it would take me to search for a root kit is far longer than the time it took me to make one last backup and then wipe it from an external drive and start over . In my case , I had a new user named A Lo created as a standard user . Pretty odd and very un-subtle of someone that manages to gain control of a server with a fixed IP address . Basically , the more sophisticated black hat that has compromised your computer - the less likely you will notice it so from a reliability standpoint - if you notice instability it 's likely cause the people that have compromised your server are inept or sloppy and will cause you to eventually have to reinstall . Just to be clear , any server that 's hidden behind a router with NAT is far less vulnerable than a server running live services 24/7 with a real , static IPv4 and no firewall whatsoever . People that just run OS X should have no concerns at all unless they have other reasons to think they are compromised .
You can find this information along with much other battery and/or system information from the command This command , according to its man page , does : ioreg displays the I/O Kit registry . It shows the heirarchical1 registry structure as an inverted tree . 1 : heirarchical [ sic ] Using a filter by class name ( for battery ) to get only battery-related information : From . Will print something like this : The field you are looking for is . For convenience , filter it out with ( unit is milliamp-hours , or mAh ) : Your field may not display as its value . I 'm using a 13 " mid-2014 rMBP , but you may be using another system with different battery ratings . Apart from battery information , can be used to find out more about your system and other peripherals - somewhat like a command-line System Information tool . If you 're looking for a code-implementation of this command , take a look at <URL> . It 's one of the coolest Swift libraries I know of . Disclaimer : not affiliated to SystemKit or Beltex . Just a happy user of SystemKit .
UPDATE : With XCode 7 it is now possible to deploy an app on your own iOS9 + device for free . Only if you need to publish your app to the AppleStore will you need the paid membership . See qqbenq 's answer for more details . Without being a member , you can only run your app in the simulator . You must be a paid member to be able to install the app on a device . <URL> : Start developing for iOS and Mac OS X with the Xcode IDE , Dashcode , Instruments , Interface Builder , iOS Simulator and a suite of additional developer tools . <URL> : Test and debug your code on iPad , iPhone and iPod touch to finalize your applications .
This OSXDaily article <URL> describes a method of doing this . You may have noticed that when you log out or reboot Mac OS X Lion , you get a dialog window with a checkbox next to " Reopen windows when logging back in " that restores all of your currently open applications and windows . If you do n't like it and you 're tired of unchecking the box to no longer reopen the windows , you can use a third party script to render the feature useless . To clarify , what this does is disable the feature completely on a constant basis , regardless of whether that checkbox to preserve windows is checked or not , the windows will not restore . Type the following command to download the script , place it in the appropriate location , make it executable , run it , then remove it : The content of the script is for those who want to know what 's being executed and/or do it manually is : Finally , if you want to go back to normal resume behaviour type :
Yes - from <URL> comes the text : The built-in battery of your MacBook , MacBook Pro or MacBook Air is designed to deliver up to 1000 full charge and discharge cycles before it reaches 80 percent of its original capacity . I have been bowled over at how well the internal battery chemistry holds up over time . Of course , bad batteries fail prematurely all the time and need to be swapped , but my gut feel is way more of these " go the distance " than all the older removable batteries .
I tried installing Avast and adding this to crontab : The average CPU use ( for one core ) after about a day was about 1.5 % , but I 'll keep it running for a few more days or weeks . <URL> displays CPU power consumption in Sensors > CPU Package Total . Approximate CPU use and power consumption on my iMac : 5 % : 5W 100 % : 13W 400 % : 25W So 1 percentage point increase in CPU use ( for one core ) from being near-idle might correspond to 1-2 % increase in CPU power consumption . The ratio might be higher for laptops though . And the percentage change in total power consumption depends on the power consumption of displays and other components . Idle power consumptions with display off or at maximum brightness : 11-inch MacBook Air : 4.7 W , 9.0 W 15-inch MacBook Pro with Retina Display : 5.3 W , 17.6 W 21.5-inch iMac : 14.1 W , 41.8 W
Yes it does , but the review times are much faster . I just submitted an update and it was reviewed and live within 5 days ( counting the weekend ) .
The original Apple charger has an output limited to 2.1 A at 5.1 V. I occasionally charge my iPad 2 Wifi with the old charger of my passed Palm Pre . It provides an amperage of 1 A at standard 5 V USB voltage . I do n't know if you can go even lower than 1 A , but the standard USB amperage of .5 A is not enough to charge it . It should n't be a problem to get a car charger that is capable of handling 1 A , more is better . Make sure you buy one , that is capable of charging an iPhone as Apple devices tend to observe the USB standards and try to communicate with the charger . Some dumb China elcheapo chargers may not have USB logic inside and your iDevices could refuse to charge .
Battery level indications are notoriously unreliable in most devices . That 's why it 's known as the indicator rather than the gauge , as the latter implies accuracy ( same goes for car fuel tanks , which is why when there is less than approximately 30 miles of fuel left , my car then stops telling me the level and just says " Refuel !! " ) . It 's very common to note unusual behaviour such as you describe , and other similar behaviour like the first 50 % being used slower than the last 50 % , etc. . In an attempt to improve the situation , Apple did something a little different with how the battery indicator value is commonly generated in iOS . But before I mention that , it 's worth showing how a lot of other manufacturers do it ( and indeed how Apple does it on OSX hardware still ) . The normal method is to show 100 % full when the battery stops charging . This is a physical measure , rather than a logical one , and relies on taking voltage/ampage readings and whether they have stopped increasing or reached expected levels , etc. . On a Macbook , the behaviour shown by @Robuust ' answer is because of this method of charging ; because it 's not good to keep topping up the battery to absolutely full when it has only lost a percent or so - it 's better to use a bit more before starting to charge again . OSX wo n't bother charging a battery that was at 100 % until it has dropped sufficiently to make charging it back up worth it without causing potential battery health issues . As such , if you unplug to walk to another room and drop from 100 % to 98 % , it will determine that it 's not worth the potential shortening of a batteries long term life just to give you a 2 % recharge . It will wait until a lower indication is reached , say 94 % , and then when it drops below this threshold start to charge again . This causes ( or used to cause ) endless user confusion ; Why does n't my battery get to 100 % ?!?! My battery is faulty ... So in iOS , they switched to a different method of reporting battery life . The genuine 100 % charge state is still monitored in the same way , but the way it is reported to the user is different . The battery will show as full when in reality it 's only , for example , say 95 % full ( I do n't know the exacts , which probably changes model to model anyway ) . At this point you can safely unplug and use the device ( there is no need to charge a modern battery all the way to prevent memory damage ) although it might not be fully charged regardless of what it says . If you leave it plugged in however , it continues to charge . Physically as the battery reaches 100 % charge , logically that is essentially going over the 100 % level shown to the user , say to 105 % ( although this is n't shown , clearly ) . At the point that it reaches this genuine full mark it then runs on battery until the value is lowered back to 95 % physical/100 % logical . Then it charges up . It will use the top 5 % or so of genuine physical battery charge to constantly run the battery through a small charge/discharge cycle , and display 100 % at all times to the user , regardless of where it is in the cycle . Actual physical battery capacity : Logical user reported charge : Logical user accessible charge : Keeping a battery active in this way is better for its health than charging it to full and keeping in charged to full . Batteries are designed to be used , which is why laptop batteries on machines that commonly stay plugged in often fail with relatively little use - you should use the battery regularly to keep it healthy . A net result of the above operation is that sometimes when your phone is showing 100 % it will drop to 99 relatively quickly , because it was at that point in the cycle where it had been running on battery and was about to start charging again anyway . Other times when you unplug , it has just finished charging to its genuine full charge , and therefore you get all the extra time it takes to discharge down from its logical 105 % down to 99 % , so it will show at 100 % for ages before starting to drop more consistently . The same happens at the bottom of the battery too , when it hits 0 % , it does n't just run out of juice and die , it knows it has enough power reserved to perform a clean shutdown , and hold enough stuff like the date/time etc. , or to be able to flash you an I need power ! icon when you try to turn it back on . Finally , as to why you can seemingly recover charge after a reboot , it seems reasonable to assume that this is just an artifact of the process used to provide the user with a logical battery indication , rather than the real thing . My physics is n't brilliant , but I believe that it 's harder to record what the static voltage of a battery is when it 's being used ( as it 's constantly draining ) , and during bootup it 's probably actually using more power than when it 's just sitting in your pocket and so on . Tie in this with some algorithm that is adjusting for the general age and health of the battery anyway ( If a battery has lost 20 % of its capacity over the course of a cou
No , never . Defragmentation is helpful on spinning platter-based drives , if the filesystem does n't handle it ( <URL> ) , because it takes time for the disk to spin around to the right spot , which has to happen more often if one chunk of data is split between several locations . See <URL> . A solid state drive has no moving parts , so there 's no mechanical delay . Reading a section of data takes approximately the same amount of time no matter where it 's located in the flash . Defragmenting a solid state drive is actually harmful because it forces the drive to move data around for no good reason , and flash chips have a limit on how many times they can rewrite a section .
The batteries on all 2012 models self regulate , self calibrate and do n't care when you charge them . You might reduce their total lifespan if you never ever ever take it off charge . Ideally drain it past 20 % remaining ( better to run it all the way down ) once every few months . These days , portable batteries are like sealed car batteries . Maybe go in to the shop once a year to have it checked , but otherwise you can forget " caring " for it other than avoiding excessive heat ( 90 degrees F and up ) . Any time you want , Apple can run extensive diagnostics on your battery ( for free at the Genius Bar and also complimentary if you pay for AppleCare . )
Xcode has an app called Instruments and you can use it to gather all sorts of CPU and memory statistics both live as the device runs and to save for analysis over time . This use of the tool does n't require a developer account , any paid software , or a jailbroken device . You do need to set up the devices in Xcode 's organizer to indicate you wish to use them for development and connect them via USB - just cancel out of any requests to manage certificates or developer profiles as you add each device to Xcode 's organizer . Above is a one click , capture and you can dive as deep as I could imagine anyone needs by selecting extra data to be sampled and displayed ...
DetailedBatteryUsage Cydia tweak from the BigBoss repo shows the battery usage for system processes . It integrated right into the tab inside settings and throws in a neat battery life cycle graph for the last seven days and also displays information about active usage/background usage .
I believe there is no way for a end-user to do this . All iOS apps will have Application_Home / Documents , Application_Home / Library , Application_Cache folders . All the files stored in these folders should be managed by application itself . So , it 's true that you ca n't do this without jail breaking .
It could be pure out of memory , but it may be that both products are fighting over the OpenGL implementation that Adobe uses . Try this - it may need some fiddling to get the best balance [ this is for Photoshop , idk the precise locations for other Adobe apps ] In Prefs > Performance , reduce the overall memory requirement - it ought to handle this OK by itself , running into pagefile if needed , but just to see how it goes with this reduced ... Either disable " Use Graphics Processor " or open Advanced Settings ... &amp; selectively disable sections until you find which is causing the issue . If you decide to leave " Use Graphics Processor " on , then look in Prefs > 3D &amp; drop the memory requirement in there to half your card 's total memory , less a little for the system . All these tweaks will require you to relaunch each app , so it may take some time to finally settle at something that works best for you . The alternative , as you first surmised , would be to get a more powerful graphics card with greater memory - if that would be even possible on a Macbook , which I somehow doubt . <URL> states [ for the high-end i7 machine ] : NVIDIA GeForce GT 330M with 512 MB of dedicated GDDR3 memory and Intel HD Graphics with 256 MB of RAM shared with the system -- that Mac OS X automatically switches between for better graphics performance and better battery life , respectively , depending on application use . One thing you should definitely check is that it is at least switching over to the NVidia rather than using the Intel card . <URL> would be the go-to tool for that kind of task .
For 3GS : <URL> : " Settings > General > Usage -- and toggle the Battery Percentage setting to On . " For 3G Jailbreak then install SBSettings . Select Extras &amp; Options - > Numeric Battery
No it really ca n't . What it can do , is show you how much battery the device has left , and hence motivate you to conserve battery with dimming the screen , and perform activities that are less battery intensive . Apps in iOS are sandboxed heavily and consequently ca n't perform system-level functions that might possibly be used to conserve battery . The other problem with this sandboxing is it would likely mean any battery conservation would have to happen while the app is open , and the device unlocked . iOS 5 allows certain processes to continue running in the background , but those include things like using the accelerometer , GPS , and such . This again comes back to iOS apps not allowing access to many system-level processes .
Leaving the LTE on will not drain your battery life . The data modem in your phone ( a Qualcomm MDM9615M ) is a chip that handles LTE and 3G signals . Therefore , your phone is not using a 3G chip and then draining your battery by having a second chip search for a LTE signal .
See <URL> for pricing information in various countries . In your case ( Italy ) it 's 130 or 180 $ depending on screen size .
end question
start question
Is It Possible to Add an Extra Line ( or More ) to Addresses in Contacts in iOS ?
As you need to do a shift + enter ( also called ' soft return ' ) to do it ( because ' enter ' acts like ' tab ' ) , you ca n't on iOS . According to this <URL> Zoagli points it in <URL> you ca n't do it on iOS . Alternatively you can try to add the soft return on a computer via Contact.app ( on a mac ) , or via the web interface of your contact manager ( Google contacts ... ) PS iCloud on the web does n't support soft return .
An alternative method is to use Safari 's built-in " Reopen All Windows from Last Session " feature :
When using Gmail in iChat before 10.7 you ca n't go invisible . I 'm using <URL> to be able to go invisible when I login via Gmail .
On iCloud.com , open Contacts . Then , click on the ribbon with the people icon until the groups appear . Now , hit the plus icon at the bottom , and name the new group . Click back on " All Contacts " . Now , simply drag each contact that you want to move into the group . If you want to select more than one at a time , just hold down the Command key ( control key on Windows ) and click on each one , then drag them all into the group .
Yes . You can make it so you do n't see the dock by adding a very long delay to the animation so that in practice , you never leave the mouse on the " expose the dock " target long enough to see it . This is technically a " workaround " since the dock is still there , just slower to appear than we care about on our timescale . Two steps are needed to set this up . One , activate auto-hide in System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Dock & #x 2192 ; Autohide or type & #x 2318 ; + & #x 2325 ; + D Two , open the Terminal an type : You 're set up now . In this example , it takes 100 seconds for the dock to appear . Make the timer even longer if you like , this long delay eventually helps you to forget that the dock is even there . Reset to default behavior by typing :
Have you tried <URL> ? They say that it lets you easily share your mouse and keyboard between multiple computers on your desktop . There are some <URL> which show how it works .
The native Contacts and Phone apps do not support this in iOS . As a workaround , you could use a third party contacts manager which supports smart groups , creating " Has a phone number " and " Has an email address " groups and working from these . Note that the contact lookup sheets shown by other apps ( like , say , Mail ) are provided by the native app and thus will not show your new groups . A free example of such an app for the iPhone would be <URL> -- searching for " smart groups " on the App Store should get you more .
This can now be accomplished very easily in iOS 7 . ( n.b. . The following assumes that you have already setup your account on the iOS device . These steps described are for a generic IMAP account . Also , when ALL CAPS are used below , it is to reflect how Apple has it listed in iOS 7 . ) Launch the ' Settings ' app on your iOS device Scroll down and then tap on " Mail , Contacts , Calendars " Tap on the email account you want to configure . Tap on the ' Account ' line with the at the top of the next screen On the ' IMAP ACCOUNT INFORMATION ' screen , scroll all the way down until you see ' Advanced ' and tap on it Now you will see a ' MAILBOX BEHAVIORS ' screen , showing you which mailboxes are used for Drafts , Sent , Deleted , and Archive mailboxes . Important : Tap on the ' Archive Mailbox ' line and verify that you have chosen the correct folder on the server where you want messages to be saved . Once you have verified that the Archive Mailbox points to where you want it to go , look for the ' MOVE DISCARDED MESSAGES INTO ' section , and tap ' Archive Mailbox ' ( instead of ' Deleted Mailbox ' ) Important : These changes will not be saved until you properly exit the configuration screen . To do this , tap the ' Account button near the top of the ' Advanced ' screen . When you get back to the ' Account ' screen , tap ' Done ' at the top-right corner . If you 'd like a step-by-step guide with screenshots , I have created one and made it available at : <URL>
I do n't believe this is possible at this time . Read receipts in iMessage appears to be an all-on or all-off option only .
With the native Finder app that comes with OS X is not possible to have tabs . If you really need them you can use some Finder replacement app , like <URL> or <URL> ( both not free ) .
No . There is no way to interface a CD drive with an iOS device . The best way to do this is to have your iOS device registered to a copy of iTunes running on a Mac or PC , and to connect the iOS device to the Mac or PC via WiFi or a USB cable . This would presuppose that you have a suitable CD drive connected to the Mac or PC for ripping audio . However , it occurs to me that you could probably rip music to AAC or MP3 format on a Mac or PC and then email those files to yourself , check the email on your iOS device , and then open the email attachments on the iOS device . That would get the music files in there .
Just found <URL> , an email client built open source and web-based . Has already a tagging feature and more but you can easily extend anything you want with JS-Skills . In future there should be a plugin for everything .
If you mean taking software that you do not hold copyright to , and which you are only allowed to use and copy because it was licensed under the GNU GPL , then no . The <URL> : section 6 of the GPL says " You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients ' exercise of the rights granted herein " , and the Mac App Store Terms of Service explicitly add other restrictions . The <URL> confirmed this : the App Store agreements , on all platforms , are incompatible with the GNU GPL . Apple seems to be disallowing GPL programs in the App Store as a matter of policy , but if you managed to sneak one through , then the author of the program could go after you for violating their copyright . A completely different case is where you hold the copyright to a piece of software . In that case , you are welcome to distribute it under more than one license . ( For example , Firefox was for a while licensed under the MPL , GPL , and LGPL . MySQL is licensed under the GPL and also a proprietary license . ) So if you sell a program through the Mac App Store , you can also release it under the GPL -- assuming you are allowed to do each of these things independently . ( If you wanted to use somebody else 's GNU GPL-licensed code in one of the App Stores , you could write to the copyright holder and see if they 're willing to sell you an alternative license to their software . They 're under absolutely no obligation to do this , of course . ) VLC ran into trouble ( I think ) because copyright for the software was held by many different people , and the whole program was only allowed to be distributed under the GPL . Some programs sidestep such issues by requiring contributors to <URL> to them , but most do n't .
I do not know if there is such a possibility to have this as a default behavior but you could simply move the application to your user application directory or anywhere else . Finder by default creates an alias when you drag an application out of the folder . However , if you hold down the " Command " key while dragging your applications , they will move to wherever you drag them . If you want to go a geekier route , you can also use Terminal and execute this command : After promting for your login password everything is fine . Be sure to be administrator of your system . This certainly works for me . I can use the application as usual and it receives all updates via the Mac App Store .
If you simply want no filtering &amp; wish to sort mail manually you can just disable Junk filtering altogether from Mail Prefs ... Note : That does n't actually appear to delete the Junk folder - but it does stop it being populated at all .
On the immediate downsides - You will need special tools and be handling some delicate parts . Also , there is <URL> causes the fans to run faster with non-apple drives . If you really want to get dust between the LCD and the front glass on a brand new mac and take the chance of ripping a tiny ribbon cable - just do some research at ifixit.com or talk with a local tech that works on new iMacs a lot . Do also research fan control and know if you are not planning on an Apple specification drive to install . My guess is Apple SSD are expensive because the parts are cherry picked to be the best of a lot ( more so than the SSD consumers buy ) and perhaps loaded with custom firmware and generally have temp sensors specific to the mac . I could be totally wrong , but even if you feel the drives are overpriced , Apple installing any SSD is better than a consumer due to the labor for for installing them is almost nil as they are installed at the most economical time - at assembly . If you ca n't afford it now - why not expand to an external SSD over firewire or ThunderBolt later . They are totally silent and small . It just seems the risks of DIY on a new mac make it better for most people to pay a trained tech to do the install .
You can extract your iPhone contacts and back them up to your computer via <URL> . Then use the same program to transfer the contacts from your computer to your new iPhone .
Nope . The only way you can run iOS apps on OS X is if you have the iPhone Simulator and have a version of the app specifically compiled to run on the simulator . The iPhone Simulator ( available from Xcode ) is not an emulator and ca n't run ARM code , which means that it has to run a specific version of iOS 7 designed for OS X , and is not able to run iOS apps that have not been designed to run on this version of iOS 7 ( i.e. IPAs from the App Store ) .
My understanding is that this is due to the fact that the slide transition takes a certain amount of time - the 15 seconds is the total time the slide is undistrubed on the screen and it allows a certain amount of time for the changover - the way to check this is to set the timing to ' 0 ' and see what happens :)
Yes , restarts are possible . Hold the home button and the lock button until the Apple logo is displayed.Switching it off &amp; on is the same as restarting .
end question
start question
Will my Mac run slow if I update it to Mavericks ?
Mine 's the same as yours ( MacBook Pro 2009 2.53 GHz ) and I 've definitely noticed it 's slower than before .
You can view information on jailbreaking iOS devices at <URL> and they include links to past firmware
About the graphics of the MBP The Macbook Pro 13 '' uses integrated Intel HD 3000 graphics . But Intel HD 3000 graphics are used in different processors . The performance varies depending on whether it 's a mobile or desktop CPU . You need to read benchmarks with caution : ULV processors core ix-2xx7 ( base freq . 350MHz , turbo 900-1000MHz ) ( Macbook Air ) LV processors core ix-2xx5 ( base freq . 500MHz , turbo 1000MHz ) standard dual and quad-core ix-2xx0 ( base freq . 650MHz , turbo 1100-1200MHz ) ( Macbook Pros ) desktop K processors ( base freq . 850 , turbo 1100-1350MHz ) Gaming Performance On <URL> I 've looked up some statistics . They keep benchmarks on how different games perform . I find these real world tests quite useful . If you follow the link , you can click on the single fps results to see each system configuration . Conclusion You should have a minimum of 24-30 fps to enjoy playing . Considering this , I 'll say that playing those games on a MBP 13 '' of 2011 will possibly work , but not result in the maximum fun :) .
It should n't effect other devices as iCloud does not automatically sync music between devices other than downloading newly purchased music to all devices if you have iOS configured that way . ( Settings > iTunes &amp; App Store > automatic downloads > music " on " ) That automatic download is one way and one time only not perpetual .
Nothing will run while the computer is asleep . Unlike humans , where sleep is different than death , when a computer sleeps it is essentially equal to being powered off . There are a few subtle differences , the primary being that it wakes up faster than from a cold boot . This is because there is enough power supplied to the RAM ( memory ) to keep it active , but this does not mean there is power supplied to the CPU ( heart ) , or that any processes are active . Any processes that are active are below the operating system , in the BIOS of the computer . This is where the " Wake On Lan " feature resides , for example .
I would run <URL> on it and then you 'll have some actual statistics to make comparisons with and go from there . I would guess your HDD is the problem .
You can use <URL> to view all the processes running on your Mac at any time . If you prefer to use the terminal , you can use <URL> .
There could be several things here that are creating the lag time , but there is never a need to reinstall everything . Plan A : I actually do these things on the first Monday of every month Purge Caches : and . You lose some of your application preferences , but things are all but guarenteed to be snappy . Repair Permissions with the Disk Utility : You can either view permissions or fix permissions . Just go straight for fixing permissions and get a cup of tea and read a magazine while you wait . Reboot on a regular basis : I do n't care what anybody says about uptime ; the occasional reboot does wonders . My Macs are real workhorses , and I reboot Monday mornings when I get in . I rarely , if ever these days , have problems . Plan B : The Not So Obvious Let Spotlight index when it finds new stuff : Spotlight makes for good searches , but it 's indexing processes are a real hassle . If things slow down , I first look for the little dot in the magnifying glass in the menu bar icon . If that 's going , I go get a cup of coffee or find something else to do . Look for background services you may have forgotten : Also , look for any background processes that may be dragging things down . Look at your login items in the System Preferences , because maybe you have some kind of a server daemon that loads in the background you forgot about . Or maybe you have your iTunes library shared and enough people are on listening to content to slow things down ( this was also a problem at my company ) . Check free hard drive space : I have also noticed in the past that things can slow down if I do n't have enough hard drive space . Things really get wonky on my Macs when I have less than 10 % free space , so I start cleaning things off when I am at the 20 % free space threshold . Plan C : System Level Look for multiple , related processes : Check Activity Monitor for anything that might be hogging CPU time . Do n't just look for a single process that has a high number , but also look multiple processes that might be related . I recently had a problem with McAfee AntiVirus ( my company 's IT department foisted it onto us ) trying to almost continuously scan my iDisk . No process got above 2 % , but there were over a half dozen of them . Once I disconnected my iDisk , McAfee was no longer a problem . Let overnight processes run : Most days I leave my Macs on all day and all night because there a number of system processes that run at around 2:00 a , Sunday mornings being especially important ( that 's when the and processes run ) . Do a quick reboot and all should be well . Plan Z Apple Certified Technicians are your friends : Third-party system maintenance software is not . I 've been working with Macs for years and the one immutable fact that I have learned is that applications designed to help maintain the system are more trouble than they are worth . When all else fails , take it in because there may be a hardware problem at this point .
You want to make sure that your Mac 's ethernet device is before the wifi device in the system 's network service order . In System Preferences , Go to Network ; under the device listing , click the ' gear ' icon and select ' Set Service Order . ' Drag ' Ethernet ' to the top . Per my understanding , all traffic will attempt to be routed through the top-most device , and will only be routed through devices lower in the chain should the above route ( s ) be unavailable .
Short answer ... No If your system is unsupported then you can not install Mavericks no matter how much memory you have . The problem is with the EFI not the memory .
First , check that your processor is running full speed . Go to Preferences , Energy Saver , Options and look at the drop box down near the bottom called Processor Performance . If it is not set to " Highest " , set it to that right away . This maximizes performance , but for notebooks , it may run down the battery faster . Note that not all Macs have this setting - laptops do , and my certainly my PowerMac G5 tower does , but not all Macs do . Next , download OnyX and run the complete set of clean up and maintenance scripts and then evaluate again . Get OnyX at : <URL> Next , you may wish to check that you have enough free space on your hard drive . Highlight the Macintosh HD icon on your desktop , CTL-click it and select Get Info from the resulting menu . Make sure you have a reasonable amount of space left . If not , a little spring cleaning may be in order . There are two excellent apps for showing where all of your hard disk space has gone , Disk Inventory X and WhatSize . Get them at : Disk Inventory X : <URL> WhatSize : <URL> Both do a great job at letting you zero in on your largest disk space consumers , so that you can hunt down any rogue files ( and both are freeware , which is good ) . Finally , it is possible you may have some processes running that are consuming a lot of idle CPU , thus slowing down your machine overall . I had a bad widget that did this once . Open Activity Monitor and look at your " resting " CPU occupancy when you are not doing anything in particular with the machine . It should be pretty much zero ( maybe 1 % to 2 % at most ) . If it not , identify the process or processes that are taking the time . What are they ? Do you recognize them ? Are they needed ? If you find one that is not needed , kill it and see how your machine starts to behave . If this is the cure , you will need to identify the startup item that launches it and delete it . So , in summary then , take the following steps in order : 1 / Start with ensuring that your processor speed setting is full ( applies to many Macs but not all ) 2 / Then do Onyx based full maintenance 3 / Then check that you have sufficient available disk space 4 / Finally , search for processes that are consuming an unexpected amount of CPU Source : <URL> Another place you may find helpful : <URL>
From <URL> Adobe and Apple have worked closely together to test Adobe ® Creative Cloud applications and Adobe Creative Suite 6 applications for reliability , performance and user experience when installed on Intel ® based systems running Mac OS X Mavericks . ( v10 .9 ) . All Adobe CC and CS6 products are compatible , but a few products require updates to the latest builds to work properly . Adobe Photoshop ® CS5 , CS4 and CS3 were also tested with Mac OS X Mavericks and there are currently no major issues known .
App applications downloaded from the App Store will automatically resume if your network service is interrupted . The Lion download is a DVD sized . dmg file that contains the OS , not a pre-loader . If your download does get interrupted you can control + click on the Lion icon in your dock then click resume .
I have been running Mavericks for about two weeks and I have n't noticed any apps that were deleted during the install . Some of Apple 's apps may be updated during the upgrade , but I 'm not aware of anything that gets deleted .
As far as I can tell , Final Cut Studio 2 will run on Lion , but will not install on Lion . Apparently , the installer program requires Rosetta , but the software itself does not . So yes , it should work , if it never needs reinstallation , but if it does , you 're stuck . Proceed with caution . Sources : <URL> personal experimentation
' Safe ' is a broad term . If you keep a backup though , there 's not much that can go wrong as you can always restore that backup . In addition , as there are no updates available for the 3Gs , you can safely restore to a jailbreakable version of iOS if anything goes wrong . As the last version of iOS that can be installed on the iPhone 3Gs is iOS 6.1.6 , this can be jailbroken using <URL> . Download it , then follow the instructions .
As Steve Moser <URL> there is no support for 32 bit drivers and Mountain Lion will refuse to install on the macs which had 32 bits drivers ( someone seems to be too lazy to rewrite them ? ) . If this answer is not the one you want to hear , then you can install Mountain Lion the hard way . Because there is a way ( which worked for <URL> ) . You will need another compatible mac ( support ) and you will have to do some hard drive switching . The idea goes as follow : Get Mountain Lion On the target Mac remove the hard drive ( target drive ) On the support Mac insert the hard drive ( USB or internally ) Install Mountain Lion on the target drive Put the target drive back in the target Mac Boot on the target drive holding Cmd + V And write down the ID given in the error message " Incompatible Mac detected : ... " Put the target drive back to the support Mac and on this drive in edit Add your board ID in the section . Add your model ID in the section . Put the target drive to the target Mac Boot You should be able to get to the desktop but without hardware graphics support . To enable the graphics hardware support you will have to install the right kernel extentions . You could use <URL> .
When you attach a folder to a email in Mail , even thought it looks like an individual folder in the email , both in the composed email and then the sent email , nonetheless the contents of the folder when sent , is zipped into a single . zip archive that is base64 encoded for transport . It is the . zip file that 's received by others and there should not be a problem with them accessing it regardless of Host OS . Looking at the actual . emlx file , here is an excerpt showing the attachment as a . zip file that is actually an " untitled folder " selected to be attached . When I received the file in a different email client it was shown as an attachment not the folder as shown in Mail under OS X . When opened in the other email client it contained the files that were in the " untitled folder " that was attached to the email that was sent .
Yes , without a doubt . Unlike with the new ability to update only changes to the OS with iOS 5 delta updates , downgrading your OS will require you to restore the phone . Which essentially reformats the drive .
Macports provides a <URL> to migration to a new OS . Basically you need to uninstall all the ports , install a new Macports and Xcode ( although only the command line tools are needed for most ports ) , then reinstall the ports . If you don ; t do this then you might well have issues which Macports community ca n't help you with . If you put your configurations in new files rather than directly edit files installed by macports these files will not be overwritten . If you directly edited the config files then you will need to copy them from a backup after the reinstall . Note on the upgrade . Xcode does not provide a gcc compiler for OSX 10.9 and Macports is now using the corresponding C++ standard library . This means that any C++ based port could well have problems if you just kept your old Macports and did not go through the migration . I suspect that other code is likely to carry on running but when you upgrade a port or add a new one things will get confused .
end question
start question
How can I find out the temperature of my Macbook Pro ?
OS X does not offer this functionality . smcFanControl and the iStat widgets are the typical go-to choices for this issue . I personally use smcFanControl . It gives me both the temperature and the ability to monitor fan operation .
On Snow Leopard , you would need to boot from an external OS to wipe the drive . On Mountain Lion ( or Lion ) , the system makes a recovery HD so you can self-wipe the Mac . This is a much , much faster and easier task , so I recommend you upgrade first and then do the wiping using a recovery boot and Disk Utility . I personally would do these steps ( and you could skip the first three steps if you wish since things are going to get erased later whether you clean up first or not ) : Make a new admin account on Snow Leopard - call it Apple or something generic and set it to be the account that logs into the Mac . Log out of all accounts and reboot Delete your account and let the system do a quick delete of the content Install Lion or Mountain Lion Install updates to the OS and then shut down the Mac Reboot into <URL> - hold down Command-R during startup Use Disk Utility to do a seven pass erase or <URL> . Quit Disk Utility to go back to the main Recovery menu Reinstall your OS on the cleanly wiped drive from the main menu Power off the Mac once the OS has been installed so that the buyer gets that " Welcome to the Mac " experience but no chance to recover your files or data If I were doing erasing of a personal Mac , I would do a one pass zero and then enable FileVault on Mountain Lion . That would take the zeroes and then encrypt each block securely - so that no two blocks would be identical on the drive . If there were work data , I might repeat zeroing it and turning on a second File Vault pass or follow whatever policy work approves for disposal of confidential data . In reality , anyone that wants to recover data from a one pass write of zeroes needs to take the drive apart in a clean room and image it with some high priced tools , so scrambling things with FileVault seems like enough overkill to me . Also , you might look here for answers and comments on selling a Mac with software that is licensed for download like Lion and Mountain Lion - most people ask the seller for an email and gift the purchase to them so that the buyer has a legitimate copy . My steps above wo n't keep your Apple ID on the Mac and the intaller self-deletes itself , so at worst , the seller could undelete that one file and recover the Apple ID email you used . To counter that , you could boot into recovery after the OS was installed and wipe the free space using Disk Utility . <URL> <URL>
The thing is that 100 % CPU usage refers to a single one of the cores in your CPU being fully loaded ( or an equivalent load distributed among all the cores ) . I assume your MacBook Pro has a dual core CPU with HyperThreading ; that 's 2 physical cores plus 2 logical cores exposed by HyperThreading . Thus , you could in theory achieve as high as 400 % CPU usage ( 4 cores times 100 % each ) . As to whether it is sustainable , in principle it should be , if the cooling system is in order and the cooling vents are not clogged with dust or blocked by any objects . Even if it 's not and you reach supposedly dangerous temperatures , the CPU should throttle itself to prevent any damage .
Apple does n't provide a way for you to withdraw an erase command from iCloud . Theoretically , if it has n't been withdrawn , an engineer for Apple could go in and remove it from the queue assuming : They could verify you were really you You figured out how to convince them to do this As for whether you can still track the device after an erase is sent , that depends on the version of iOS on the device . If you have iOS 7 or later - the erase action does not stop tracking or remove the activation lock preventing a thief or someone who finds / buys it from being able to use the device . It will still show your lock message and you can still track the device . Problem solved ! If you are on iOS 6 or earlier , you are correct that you will have lost the chance to track the device once it connects and receives the wipe command . If it ever connects to Apple 's servers , the wipe will happen and the device will be erased and you should get an email if/when that happens .
Yes , you can buy third party RAM . I usually buy <URL> RAM . As long as it is made to be compatible with your machine ( Same Bus Speed and such ) . Usually , you can search these companies sites for RAM for your specific make and model MBP and they will have suggestions for it . You can sometimes even put in more RAM than Apple says it can . The companies test newer machines to see how much RAM they can handle . For instance , the new current gen MBP only supports 8GB according to Apple , but 16GB of RAM will still work and wo n't cause any problems . It will work perfectly . I am running 8GB of RAM in my machine , it cost me 46 dollars with shipping over 200 dollars from Apple . Just be sure to keep you old RAM just in case your new RAM goes bad , which it most likely wo n't , but that way you have back up RAM to use in just such an occasion . I hope that helps .
It 's the fans . They are clogged with dust and other debris from the years of use . Notebooks are not air-tight and intake quite a bit of air over their lifetime ( they need to push the air to the central components like the CPU/GPU to cool them ) . The units must be opened and cleaned periodically ( depending on environment ) to maintain peak operating performance . High fan speeds and poor thermal dissipation are signs that the fans are n't doing their job ( they are likely clogged with dust and the exhaust is also likely blocked , preventing the output of the hot air blown off from the processing units ) . Computer fans work by pushing air taking from the environment onto the CPU/GPU . The hot air blown off the chips move through air vents in the back of the unit . Over time , dust settles on the fans , dropping their efficacy , and the vents , preventing the hot air from escaping . This bakes the components and results in the spike in over temperature . Visit <URL> and pull up a guide on how to partially dismantle your notebook . If you are not technically proficient , bring it to a credible repair shop . There are no " normal " operating temperatures for Apple notebooks , but there is an acceptable gradient . 82 degree Celsius is pushing the limits . The CPU 's thermal threshold is 105 degrees Celsius ( when that temperature is reached , the system will shutdown to prevent thermal damage ) . And just an aside , regardless of locale , all temperatures should be reported as Celsius , never Fahrenheit when dealing with computer components . Official documentation always refers to Celsius .
While <URL> @ <URL> <URL> are no longer freeware , the <URL> and <URL> Dashboard widgets are free . I personally use iStat nano for my system monitoring needs . Here it is showing the temps it can read on my iMac : If you <URL> the widget , you can change the view . I usually have it running in " <URL> " mode , which shows CPU , RAM , HDD * , fan * , temperature * , network * and uptime info . * ) user-configurable , e.g. which temp sensor 's readings are displayed
To see a listing of all the apps you have purchased or downloaded , do this : Go to Store > View My Account Login Click on " Purchase History " You should now see all the apps you have downloaded before . Stolen from <URL> .
There are several other options your can try . First try rebooting/powering up and after your hear the chime press and hold the option/alt key . This will take you to the UEFI boot loader where you will be presented with all the boot options OS X recognizes . If you can , select the hard drive that contains your OS X installation . Should the boot loader not launch or launch and then present you with no options reboot and then try pressing and holding command + r after the chime . This will either boot off of your recovery partition or attempt to boot your system from internet recovery . If it 's the latter it will take some time so be patient . Once you are loaded into recovery mode launch disk utility from the tools dropdown . Select the first entry for your hard drive in the side bar and then click " Repair Disk " . This will attempt to repair any errors with your partition map . Reboot and then hopefully all will now be functioning correctly .
Enter TimeMachine , then in the main window , select the backup you want to delete ( on the right ) , then use the Action Menu ( Gear icon ) to select " Delete Backup " . Using this menu , you can also , when a file or a folder is selected , delete all its backup .
The monitor used dual-link DVI . I was able to get it working using this adapter , and it now displays up to 2560 x 1600 : <URL>
You can see the current RAM configuration in a visual overview by : Going to the menu If you 'd like further detail , open the from the tab of . This can also be accessed by holding ⌥ while the menu is open , then selecting .
According to <URL> source , you wo n't be able to do that . You have to have a Thunderbolt Mac and use a Thunderbolt cable to use a Thunderbolt iMac as an external display . <URL> has a table that confirms it . Sorry !
The Other World Computing Blog <URL> the new MacBook Pro 15 " with Retina Display Can Run 3 External Displays : image source : <URL> These resolutions were used : Retina on laptop @ " best for Retina " iMac used as a display @ 2560 x 1440 via Thunderbolt iMac used as a display @ 2560 x 1440 via Thunderbolt/DisplayPort LG monitor @ 1920 x 1200 via HDMI Quote from the <URL> : This makes the Retina MacBook Pro the first Mac -- other than a tower-based workstation like the Mac Pro -- to natively power four displays simultaneously .
To give it a full fresh and clean and welcome experience I would suggest you remove all stuff accumulated over time including all non apple aps . To do that you can erase all the information from hard drive and simply reinstall the OS X. Apple 's knowledge base article has the steps : <URL> . On most computers , the erase and install takes 30 minutes plus how ever long it takes to download the installer package from Apple 's servers . That part is about a 4 GB download if you have n't saved it and follow the above instructions .
Your Thunderbolt monitor has a MagSafe Connector - your MBP has a MagSafe 2 Connector . Apple now supplies a <URL> with the display ( check the packaging - the adapter is small ) . If you are missing the converter , check with Apple - they should give you a replacement .
You could have a look at <URL> ( there 's a free and commercial version ) MAMP is installed in the typical Mac fashion : very easily . MAMP will not compromise any existing Apache installation already running with your OS X . You can install Apache , PHP and MySQL without starting a script or having to change any configuration files ! Philosophy : MAMP was created primarily as a PHP development environment for Macintosh computer and should therefore not be used as Live Webserver for the Internet . In this case , we recommend that you use Mac OS X server with the provided Apache or a Linux server . Included programs &amp; libraries Apache 2.0.63 MySQL 5.1.44 PHP 5.2.13 &amp; 5.3.2 APC 3.1.3 eAccelerator 0.9.6 XCache 1.2.2 &amp; 1.3.0 phpMyAdmin 3.2.5 Zend Optimizer 3.3.9 SQLiteManager 1.2.4 Freetype 2.3.9 t1lib 5.1.2 curl 7.20.0 jpeg 8 libpng-1 .2.42 gd 2.0.34 libxml 2.7.6 libxslt 1.1.26 gettext 0.17 libidn 1.15 iconv 1.13 mcrypt 2.6.8 YAZ 4.0.1 &amp; PHP/YAZ 1.0.14
No , not directly . The Mac Pro uses full-sized desktop DIMM modules , whereas the Macbook pro uses laptop-sized SO-DIMM modules . These can not be directly swapped without a passive adapter , which I honestly would n't think makes much sense to bother with given how <URL> .
Amazon Fire TV requires a TV with an HDMI input channel to display video , something MacBooks ( or pretty much any computer ) are lacking . So no , this will not work ( it wo n't work with an Apple TV/MacBook combination either ) .
According to <URL> : Use Your iPad Regularly For proper reporting of the battery 's state of charge , be sure to go through at least one charge cycle per month ( charging the battery to 100 % and then completely running it down ) .
end question
start question
How do I check I know the password for an encrypted drive ?
You might be interested in exporting all of the KeyChain in to Text file that you can save for later uses . Be aware anyone with access to your computer can now plainly see that information . Run this in Terminal You will have to click " Allow " till done , or use script that does that , but since it is usually one time action just do it manually .
This was covered by MG Siegler over at <URL> last week , the explanation of how it does it is <URL> . Basically , iOS provides it 's own Keychain functionality and if you know the Keychain key , then you can save and read data between apps that you write . In this case , the Facebook Camera app is reading data saved by the Facebook app .
Download " password pilot " in Cydia ( the jailbreak app store ) it will save your password so you wont have to keep entering it .
You have to trust the developer of the app . Period . Besides code analysis there is no way to eliminate the possibility that an app does send your password somewhere . And even tools like Little Snitch wo n't help you if the app is allowed to send emails from your account . If you send an email to somebody it would just use the established connection to afterwards send another email with your password . Since the connection is encrypted you ca n't see what the app is doing . And because the whole purpose of the app is sending emails the connection is not suspicious at all . Same thing is true for all apps that need access to the internet , if you enter the password to an facebook app it could just use facebook to send a private message with your password and so on . To make it even more difficult to detect , the developer could implement it in a way that the malicious routine waits 30 days before it sends your password . And if the developer is a smart criminal ( he wrote a great app so he probably is ) he can detect testers who just fast forward their device date setting too . If the developer is smart it is nearly impossible to figure such things out without looking at the code . Entering your password somewhere is all about trust . And with all those apps from unknown developers it 's hard to figure out which app you can trust enough to give it your password . That 's the reason Twitter , among others , uses an authentication process where the app never knows your password . Having a different password for different services helps in case you have accidentally trusted an untrustworthy developer . But your email password is a little bit special because usually it can be used to gain access to almost all services you use .
Here 's a few ways to check . The last one only works in Lion . The third one is probably the easiest if you 're comfortable using Terminal . Lock All Keychains A quick way to check is to open Keychain Access ( found in / Applications/Utilities / ) , choose File > Lock All Keychains , then try to mount the disk image . If it 's encrypted , you should get a message like diskimages-helper wants to use the " login " keychain and be prompted for the keychain password ( same as your OS X login password ) . If it 's not encrypted , it will simply mount . Search login Keychain Instead of locking all keychains , you could instead search for your disk image in the login keychain : Select the login keychain , then type the name of the . sparseimage file in the search field . However , if the . sparseimage name has been changed since it was created , it wo n't show up in the login keychain with the new name . If you do n't find your disk image you can try the Lock All Keychains method above or the Terminal method below to be certain . Terminal Command You can enter the following command to check if the disk image is encrypted : Replace the with the path to the disk image . If the disk image is encrypted , the command will return something like : If it 's not encrypted , it wo n't show anything at all . Use Disk Utility in Lion New in Lion , Disk Utility now shows if a disk image is encrypted . Unmount the disk image if it 's mounted . Open Disk Utility and drag the . sparseimage file to the device list on the left side of the Disk Utility window . Select the . sparseimage in the device list and look at the information area at the bottom of the window . If the disk is encrypted , then that will be indicated under " Disk Write Status " .
Based on the <URL> , the information about original location is stored within DS_Store file . In older version of OS X it was just a plain text and now binary format and it 's undocumented by Apple , however there is a tool created by <URL> which can reads it . Written in perl project provides routines for reading and writing the files generated by the OS X. Using would attempt to dump a store file 's records in a more human-readable format . Example usage : See : <URL> and <URL>
The answer I got from <URL> on Twitter was as follows : Your mobile number must be sent to Apple 's server and stored against your device ID for APN . I guess it happens at activation . " How do they identify FaceTime devices by phone number ? " is the same question . <URL> ( <URL> ) . <URL> , <URL> .
You can change it by first selecting the DMG in Disk Utilty . Then go to Images > Change Password . It will prompt you for the password . Then , it 'll ask you for a new password for the DMG .
In the Save As dialog , there 's a box that says " Run only " . Check that when you save .
You do n't need any special tools like xcode or a debugger to pick apart the virtual memory system in terms of allocation and summary statistics . I would start with from the command line and perhaps pass in the PID or process name you care about . It samples that app , but you also have the PID and information on that suspect program with all the diagnostic information . Passing in the process ID will run vmmap , heap and ( perhaps ) other good diagnostics or added details on the program in question . You 'll want to focus on the zprint.txt and allmemory.txt first . The sysctl.txt has some vm information as well and fs_usage.txt shows file access , but generally not swapping . There are unix manual pages for most of these tools as well as the sysdiagnose script is readable so you can see what it does or change it to collect . You might want to enable thorough mode on the script in case that added information on the PID helps you isolate the cause . Happy hunting ...
Go to system preferences/keyboard/text / spelling and click on the window and go to the Setup item . Then check the boxes for only the two languages you want and set it to Automatic . Also set the dictionary to Automatic in Edit > Spelling and Grammar > Show Spelling and Grammar . I suspect this works better for separate sentences or paragraphs in different languages than for different languages in one sentence .
There are a lot of applications doing this job : <URL> ( 1 $ ) , <URL> ( 4 $ ) , and a free <URL> , but it requires your iPad to be <URL> . Sorry , did n't found anything that would be free and , ehm , completely legal .
What you should do is similar in concept to <URL> that you 've quoted . The main difference is that your MBP will have the Restore partition on its drive instead of the USB solution for the MBA . Follow the instructions on Apple 's <URL> : Just hold down Command-R during startup and OS X Recovery springs into action . It lets you choose from common utilities : You can run Disk Utility to check or repair your hard drive , erase your hard drive and reinstall a fresh copy of OS X , or restore your Mac from a Time Machine backup . Since you 've already backed up your data , pick the erase and reinstall option , and you 'll have a clean copy of OS X installed on the MBP before you bring the machine back for servicing/replacement .
Your home and work geo-location are picked up from your contacts card in the Contacts app ( on iOS devices ) . To manage where your home or work is , edit the relevant addresses in the Contacts app , under ' add new address ' . You can also edit other peoples addresses , add shops , the gym , clubs , etc , and it will use this data .
One commercial app which provides the effective permissions for a user and a selected file or folder is <URL> : In the example below the effective permissions of the file / private/var/log / clamav.log for the user Spotlight are shown . The user Spotlight can neither read nor write data . <URL> Triggering the tab Show or Set Permissions the POSIX permissions/ownership are shown explicitly . <URL>
It turns out that Disk Utility did n't want to touch a disk that contained an encrypted partition , but it had no issue with changing the encrypted partition itself . I clicked on the encrypted partition ( not the drive ) in the sidebar , and the " Erase " tab appeared on the right . From there I reformatted the disk to Mac OS Extended without encryption , and afterward Disk Utility had no hangups about reformatting or repartitioning the drive .
Did you install the second hard drive yourself ? If so then your best bet is to swap your SuperDrive back in before taking it in for service . I cover this scenario in more depth with <URL> : Apple 's warranty ( AppleCare ) is specific about what components are user replaceable/serviceable . The hard drive on an older MacBook for instance is user replaceable , AppleCare used to have the option to send you a replacement hard drive along with a disposable ESD wriststrap for you to install it yourself . The difference though is the hard drive in the MacBook was almost as easy to access as the RAM in the Mac mini . The Mac mini 's hard drive is a different story . In order to access it you have to expose the logic board which increases the chance of damage from ESD if proper precautions are n't taken . Because of this the only user replaceable part in the new minis is the RAM , since the logic board is still pretty well protected when only removing the RAM . The Magnusson Moss act essentially says they ca n't deny warranty unless they can prove damage . It would n't be hard for Apple to say " The upgrade situation you described to us implies that there was a high risk for ESD damage , which has likely caused such and such issue " . The flip side though is that if an Apple Authorized Service Provider ( AASP ) installs a third party hard drive your AppleCare will remain intact because the AASP has proved to Apple that its technicians follow all safety rules and procedures when working on Macs , essentially the same reason Apple allows them to perform warranty work . Apple would then not be involved in the hard drive 's warranty ( though most HDDs have 3-5 year warranties of their own ) but the remaining components would still be recognized as " in warranty " by Apple . The most you would need to do is provide a receipt for the service you had done at an AASP . source : I was " that guy " at the Genius Bar for several years who had to turn people away from warranty coverage for unauthorized upgrades &amp; repairs . As soon as your Mac goes out of warranty I definitely encourage a DIY attitude , however I would try to heed the above advice while it 's under AppleCare . Basically if it was a user replaceable part ( it 's not ) you would n't run much risk of them blaming a failure on your upgrade . The problem though is that with the optical drive not being considered a user replaceable component , and the replacement being a somewhat major ( in their eyes ) modification , they have every right to deny coverage since they have no way of knowing if proper ESD precautions and whatnot were followed . If I were you I 'd play it safe . The Superdrive installation is n't terribly difficult and could save you a lot of arguing if you do n't get a Genius who just looks the other way .
To check for it manually , go to Settings - > General - > Software Update . Your device will then check with Apple 's servers and let you update if there is newer software available , otherwise it will show you the current version and tell you that you 're already up to date .
I decided that the best way to identify the file being downloaded was to write a small script that fetched the files held open by the App Store program . I set variable to the PID of by extracting it from the command using and Then I use to list open files by the PID of and I print out the size of the files and the files path . If you do this several times in succession you can see the file ( s ) that 's growing and make a good guess by its size that it is the OS download .
You can connect it to iTunes and disable voiceover or you can learn if you are using voiceover correctly . VoiceOver is not at all intuitive at first go and really optimized for people that learn how to use it . This learning is an effort unlike the normal iOS interface that toddlers can get with no real training needed . I would say learning VoiceOver is like learning to ride a bike - not hard , but easier if you have someone guiding you or you practice on soft ground while learning and falling . Tips on using VoiceOver The touch interface is totally different in VoiceOver . First you have to tap once to select the number , then you double tap anywhere on the screen to select the spoken element . If your password was 1228 , you would : tap once on 1 , then double tap anywhere on the screen to enter 1 tap once on 2 , then double tap twice anywhere on the screen to enter 2 twice tap once on 8 , then double tap anywhere in the screen to enter 8 Tips on disabling VoiceOver from iTunes In iTunes you select summary and click Universal Access , then choose either Zoom or Neither rather than VoiceOver .
end question
start question
Automator quarantine Gatekeeper workaround ?
Signature Check Check your Automator application is being signed correctly . Do this using the command line tool . Use the following command in Terminal.app to view the code signature associated with your application : Does the output mention your developer identifier ? If not , revisit how you <URL> as it may be broken . Quarantine Flag The quarantine flag is applied to files downloaded from the Internet . This flag can be manually removed using this command :
Enable the Automator Log Automator 's Log panel should display more detailed error information . You can show it by clicking the Log item in the View menu ( or pressing ⌥ ⌘ L ) .
Go to ~ / Library/Logs / find the log file , and delete it . Or , if there is n't a log file for Automator there , go to / Library/Logs and find the file there .
With Commandline tools this is easy : Install <URL> in the Terminal in the Terminal
I ended up getting <URL> power pack and setup a hotkey there . It 's much much faster than the automator service .
The filename given in the " Save service as : " sheet , to the saved Automator Service , is what will appear on the Services context menu , sans the file extension . It is fixed , sans renaming it , and can not be a dynamic name automatically , as no mechanism is provided for it in a user made Automator Service .
( Paste as a Run Shell Script action and select Pass input : as arguments . )
OS X features NSDataDetector which has the ability to detect types of data . More information regarding the NSDataDetector class can be found on Apple 's developer site : <URL>
disable Gatekeeper ( " Allow applications downloaded from : Anywhere " ) run Eclipse once reset Gatekeeper to a more strict level ( " Mac Store and identified developers " . ) Doing this has allowed me to start Davmail , also a Java app , after Mountain Lion initially claimed the binary was corrupt ( " App is damaged and ca n't be opened " error message ) even when back on the stricter level . Another option , as mentioned in John Siracusa 's <URL> , is to do the following from the Terminal : I have not ( yet ) personally tested this but John 's a solid source .
It looks like the TexturePacker program includes the ability to process images from the command-line , which you could then batch process with a script . You 'll first want to install the utility by clicking Install Command Line Tool under the TexturePacker menu in the app . Then I 'd suggest having a look at the <URL> , which includes the command-line parameters for most of the options in the app . Have a look at that , and see if you can get the actions you need on the command-line . If you need help turning those into a batch processing script , I 'd suggest coming back and amending your question with the specifics .
Have a look at the <URL> command in the AppleScript Language Guide <URL> . activate Brings an application to the front , and opens it if it is on the local computer and not already running . I 'd add after the start of the handler .
The application ( or a third-party ) has to provide support for Automator . It 's not automatic .
Automator helps you automate ( pun intended ) repetitive actions without requiring programming knowledge . The basic building blocks of Automator are Actions . Each Action does a sigle task , that may take an input and produce an output . Automator lets you create a sequence of Actions , called Workflow . If you are familiar with UNIX it 's like a UI for pipes . Here is an Automator Workflow I use a lot , especially for downloading lecture notes in PDF from my professors ' sites : Creating <URL> is another feature I find useful . Also , you can combine the power of AppleScript with the simplicity of Automator with the " Run AppleScript " Action . As an example of both techniques , you can check out this service that <URL> . If you need more information about Automator check this <URL> . If you are a developer and want to create new Actions or need more insight into Automator , check out <URL> and the <URL> .
It 's not really designed for this , but I think you can hack it to do what you 'd like . First , to get the relative path to the . app package , you 'll want to add a Run AppleScript action before your shell script . The code for the AppleScript should be something like this : That will pass the path to your . app bundle to your shell script action as an argument . Just set the Run Shell Script to pass input as arguments and you should be set to use the path in your shell script however you need to : Once that 's done , you can package whatever executables you need in the Contents/Resources folder of the . app bundle . You can get there in the Finder by right/command-clicking the . app and selecting Show Package Contents . Important Note : Automator rewrites the . app bundle every time you save it , so you 'll have to add the executables again every time after you make a change .
Do this : Remove the " Speak text " action . Add the " Run AppleScript " action . Clear all the default text in the action . Copy/paste this script in the action : If you want a specific voice , append after the command . Example :
Here is an example Automator workflow to convert image files to a specific type : When creating your workflow , do n't forget to set it to a Service so that it can be accessed in the context menu . The Copy Finder Items makes sure that the original files do n't get replaces . You can change the save location to a variable if you wish , or just delete that action and let it replace the original file . If you would like the option of which file type you would like , you can create multiple service workflows with different names ( and different file formats for the Change Type of Images action ) .
I think you can do it if you combine it with Apple Script . There is no print action for emails . But you can call a applescript . You could even combine it with ( mail ) rules . So when for example you see ' invoice ' in the header or body , you start a applescript that automatically prints and saves it to a folder . Im not really into applescript , but have a look here : <URL>
If you are referring to the changes you made being deleted ( i.e. , the stuff it watched you do ) , I expect it is permanently deleted . The action itself ( in the source list ) ought n't ever be deleted .
I usually use scripts like this instead of Automator services : If the clipboard is empty , trying to get it results in an error . pbpaste and pbcopy use ASCII if the locale variables are unset . I could n't get to work with non-ASCII characters though . Without the delay would sometimes be run before the text would get pasted .
Apparently , Lion 's Automator actions are a bit more finicky about implicit data conversion between actions than Snow Leopard 's . In your case , the issue is the " Get Contact Information " action does not perform a conversion from groups into their contained contacts . This can be solved quite easily by inserting a " Get Selected Address Book Items " action set to " people " after the first one ( which retrieves the selected groups ) before the " New Text File " action . This will allow you to select groups in Address Book instead of having to select all their constituent members . As to the encoding issue , that does not seem to have anything to do with the Automator workflow : testing with my iCloud address book ( German , with lots of Czech and French contacts ) neither your nor my variant produce any issues writing UTF-8 text as long as the " New Text File " action 's file format is set to " text ( . txt , convert if necessary ) " . If the issue persists on your system when using these settings , possible causes I can think of are TextEdit ( or your editor of choice ) is set to display the file as another encoding than UTF-8 ; in that case , it would mangle them on display . your address book might contain differently encoded characters , possibly from importing from older systems : Address Book is very good at hiding these , but they can cause a number of odd issues . There are a number of utilities out there claiming to fix broken Address Book records , but I have never tested them -- YMMV .
end question
start question
How do I sync contacts between 2 iCloud accounts with iOS 8 ?
Found this on a forum today . Suppose a husband and wife want to share contacts . In , the husband adds his account . In it , he must sync contacts ; he can also sync whatever else he wants . In , the wife adds her account . In it , she can not sync contacts , but she can sync whatever else she wants . In , she adds her husband 's account . In it , the only thing she syncs is contacts . That 's it .
Handoff is not supported in Music.app , however your use case ( control media playback on your iPhone from a Mac ) would be more along the lines of what the Apple Remote app does , just in reverse . <URL> allows you to control one device from another device or a Mac . I have not used the software , so YMMV .
According to the major WiFi-calling provider <URL> following Apple phones are <URL> : iPhone 5c iPhone 5s and iPhone 6 ( + )
Here is one way to get webcal feeds to show up in Outlook 2011 for Mac if you are using Office 365 . Open the Office 365 Web Application Go to My Calendars on the left and right click " Open Calendar " and paste your webcal URL into the " from the Internet " field The calendar ( basecamp or tripit for example ) will now show up both in your Office 365 web app and also in Outlook 2011 for Mac ( assuming you have this set up )
Have you looked into software like <URL> to transfer the videos ? It offers a Windows and Mac version . I prefer <URL> to this software on a Mac , but you have tagged this windows so TouchCopy seems a better fit .
You can extract your iPhone contacts and back them up to your computer via <URL> . Then use the same program to transfer the contacts from your computer to your new iPhone .
It sounds like the account type might be POP instead of IMAP . POP stores messages and all message attributes on each client ( iMac , iPad , etc ) . IMAP stores messages and attributes on the server , so every client has the same view of the messages ( including unread/read state ) . So , the solution for you is to use IMAP if the account supports it .
<URL> . Because of that , you will continue to be able to upgrade to iOS 9.3.5 at any time in the future . Apple continues to sign the last available firmware for all devices , which will be iOS 9.3.5 for the iPad 2 . Examples of how the last supported version of iOS for a device continues to be signed : <URL>
You can go into Mission Control ( formerly known as Expose in Snow Leopard ) , then drag the window from your current desktop the thumbnail of the other desktop , which will be at the top of the screen .
It sounds like you 've already discovered that you can <URL> each <URL> sub-account individually to iCloud . Having done that , you can now add the second account to your iPad as a secondary iCloud account by going to . You can also add secondary iCloud accounts in OS X by going to . This way you do n't have to switch users in OS X to access the second iCloud account 's mail . You can migrate remaining MobileMe Family Members by going to <URL> , instead of having to create a new user in OS X to do the migration . Primary iCloud accounts can use a few features that secondary accounts ca n't : iOS 5 : Photo Stream , Documents &amp; Data , and Backup OS X Lion : Bookmarks , Photo Stream , Find My Mac , and iCloud Storage
You ca n't . I 've been an iOS software developer for two years and I have n't been able to find a way do this . I have tried to find solutions to this but came up with nothing . I 'd love to be proven wrong , but I 'm 99 % certain there 's no way to do this . When my screen is too small I use 50 % scale window , which is ought to be enough until I hook up my big monitor again at home .
As Robin says , most people would go for OS X Server , because it has tools specifically built to do just this , providing you bind the clients to LDAP . Aside from that , OS X is designed hierarchically . You could try just adding the desired . plist files in / Library/Preferences instead of ~ / Library/Preferences and then deleting said files , if they already exist , from ~ / Library/Preferences ( since files in ~ / Library generally override those in / Library ) There is also the default " User Template " hiding in the System Folder , from which all new users ' home folders are created . You could edit this , but the change would only affect accounts created after the imaged machines have their first boot .
➙ ➙ : Turn off Make sure ( at the bottom of that same screen ) is on Your iDevice will no longer automatically correct misspelled words , but it will highlight them for you . As far as I know this is the only way to have spell-checking on without the Auto-Correct feature .
If you have a number of events you want to enter and you have their times in another zone , it 's very handy to use Calendar 's time zone support . First , go to Calendar - > Preferences , and click Turn on time zone support . This will enable a dropdown in the titlebar of your Calendar window : You can then use this menu to change the display of everything in your calendar to a new time zone . Pull it down and select Eastern time ( or whatever other time zone or city your event is in ) , and Calendar will convert all your times to that zone . At this point , you can start entering events , using the times listed in the program for the event . You will also see a new detail in the event detail popup : This shows what time zone the event is in . Once you 've entered all the events , turn the time zone back . That will display all your events in your own time zone . If you are syncing with your phone ( which knows what time zone it is in ) all the events will remind you at the right time .
There used to be , as MobileMe did keychain syncing . Indeed , that was the only reason I was a subscriber . Since iCloud , that feature is no longer available . I now use <URL> for my password syncing . It is n't quite as good as keychain syncing ( non-browser applications ca n't really use it ) , but for most stuff it 's dandy .
The reason for this is that the Exchange Administrator has used the <URL> on the server to adjust how many weeks of mail you are allowed to sync . It is not possible to override this value on the phone itself without jailbraking .
The best way is to stop syncing contacts via iTunes and do it all over the air : On your Mac : go to Contacts.app ( or Address Book.app if you 're not on ML ) > Preferences . Under Accounts tab , tick the checkbox " Synchronize with Google " and add your gmail info . On your iPhone : setup a Google Exchange account in Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendards . Google has a <URL> for that . After that all your contacts are synced over the air and iTunes will stop syncing those when you attach your iPhone .
I found what I needed in ~ / Library/Caches/com . apple.mcc.accounts It 's an XML file and it has 4 occurences of each wrong email . Updated and it works fine in Mail.app
There wo n't be a problem . I 'm not 100 % sure that upgrading to iOS 8 will be in your best interest , though , because I 've seen lots of reports of people with 4Ss having performance problems on iOS 8 .
The native Contacts and Phone apps do not support this in iOS . As a workaround , you could use a third party contacts manager which supports smart groups , creating " Has a phone number " and " Has an email address " groups and working from these . Note that the contact lookup sheets shown by other apps ( like , say , Mail ) are provided by the native app and thus will not show your new groups . A free example of such an app for the iPhone would be <URL> -- searching for " smart groups " on the App Store should get you more .
end question
start question
How do I create a custom ringtone for my iPhone ?
If the song/sound you want to use is n't already in your iTunes library , add it to your iTunes library first . If you want to use just a part of the song/sound , right click it , select " Get Info " , then " Options " tab , and enter a start and stop time there . Remember , ringtones ca n't be over 40 seconds ! On the File menu , select " Convert " > " Create AAC Version " . If you do n't have this option , go to Edit , Preferences , General tab , and click the Import Settings button . Make sure the import setting is set to " iTunes Plus " ( AAC ) . This will create a new file in your iTunes library . Delete it from your iTunes library now , but be sure to check " keep file " in the delete dialog so the file itself is n't removed , just the library entry . Navigate to where the file was created on disk , somewhere like Rename the file from to Drag and drop this file into the Ringtones folder of your iTunes ( or , just double-click it and iTunes will handle it automatically ) . Sync your iPhone . Make sure that " Sync Ringtones " is selected in the phone sync options ( mine was off by default ) . After syncing , you can select your new ringtone in Settings , Sounds at the Custom section at the top .
Go to Settings - > General - > Accessibility and set " White on Black " to Off .
You should be able to sync it directly by using the usb . Is it giving you error messages ? What is it saying . Also , you may need to check your sync preferences on the phone settings its self . What version of iOS is installed or is it jail broken ?
I 've had bad RAM that still allowed the machine to boot - a stick of memory in my Mac Pro apparently failed gracefully overnight . The first step would be to check system profiler to see if the memory is being recognized . If indeed it is , there 's a version of MemTest for OS X : <URL>
Have you looked into software like <URL> to transfer the videos ? It offers a Windows and Mac version . I prefer <URL> to this software on a Mac , but you have tagged this windows so TouchCopy seems a better fit .
<URL> offers a multi-charge/sync setup now , and apparently <URL> has one in the works . If you 're looking to build your own , the Datamation unit uses a <URL> with 16 USB ports for charging and syncing . You could integrate it into your own solution . You could also just get a 12 + port USB charger , however charging and syncing may take significantly longer this way . The Datamation site has some <URL> that support this .
Do you mean to Jailbreak your phone , or to unlock it so you can use it on a different network ? Unlocks currently depend on your firmware version , which you can check by going to settings >> general >> about and looking at the version number . If you can confirm then we could find the right unlock for your phone , supposing it can be unlocked .
Yes . Purchases are tied to your iTunes Account , not to the device .
<URL> ( Formerly called KeyRemap4MacBook ) allows to intercept the keyplay . Assign your scripts for fine volume adjustment to F11 and F12 ( actually it 's a combination of fn + vol . up/vol . down ) . Download and install <URL> . Open the Karabiner preferences via the menu icon , which is a black square ( like a keyboard key ) , somewhere in your menu bar . In the Tab Change Key select the options : Volume Down to F11 Volume Up to F12 F11 to Volume Down F12 to Volume Up This will switch the behavior of the function keys with the volume keys : Now you can use fine volume adjustment with one touch and the usual volume adjustment using fn + vol . up/vol . down . Note that there is also an option " Fine grained volume controls " that enables fine grained volume controls by default , so you can do this purely within Karabiner , without any other scripts . You can find this in the giant list , under " Change F1 . . F19 Key &amp; Functional Key " and then the submenu " Change Functional Key " .
Some step by step instructions can be found <URL> . After opening Disk Utility : Click the New Image icon Place the contents of folder/directory into the newly created disk image .
Easy Peasy . System Preferences > Notifications > FaceTime > uncheck ' Play sound for notifications ' Alternatively , you could just turn on ' Do Not Disturb ' from the Today/Notifications widget easily when you need it by clicking on the notifications button in the menu bar and scrolling up the ' Do Not Disturb ' setting will scroll into view
Your home and work geo-location are picked up from your contacts card in the Contacts app ( on iOS devices ) . To manage where your home or work is , edit the relevant addresses in the Contacts app , under ' add new address ' . You can also edit other peoples addresses , add shops , the gym , clubs , etc , and it will use this data .
Here is an example ( quick scribble ) of how to get and process the labels . Set theNumber to your own number . AND I WOULD BACKUP THE ADDRESSBOOK BEFORE YOU START PLAYING WITH IT . Update . I have change the script to chaco if the phone number starts with rather than contains . ' label ' = an items label . i.e ' mobile ' , ' iphone ' , ' home page ' Phones = the phone numbers of a person/contact 's entry people = plural for more than one person/contact . value = the value of an item in a person/contact entry - in this case the phone number In the set command the code between the brackets ( ) is run first . Meaning the reference to phone number 's label in whole of the address book that starts with theNumber is gathered in a list . Then the surrounding code tells each reference to change to test .
Here 's how you do it in iOS 4.1 : In Safari , hit the bookmarks icon Press the " Edit " button in the lower left In the lower right , a " New Folder " button appears . Press it . Type in the name of the folder and hit " Done " on the keyboard .
If your devices have OS X Yosemite and iOS 8 or anything newer , <URL> Connect your iPhone , iPad or iPod touch to your Mac via a Lightning Cable . Open QuickTime on your Mac , and select File > New Movie Recording . A recording window will appear . Click the arrow next to the Record button , and select your iPhone from the dropdown menu that appears . Click the Record button and go about your business on your iPhone . Once you 're done , click the Stop button and save the video .
Remove it from the list of " Preferred Networks " and it will stop auto-connecting . Go to " System Preferences " > " Networks " prefpane . Choose " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " on Lion ) on the left . Click the " Advanced " button . In the resulting sheet , choose the " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " ) tab . ( It should be the leftmost . ) Select your neighbor 's wifi network in the list and hit the " - " ( minus ) button . Live with joy at never [ auto - ] connecting there again !
Under Settings / iCloud you 'll see a big red button labeled as Delete Account . Contrary to what it appears , it wo n't actually delete the account , nor your Apple ID , it will only delete the iCloud 's content from your device . So , to change the device 's iCloud account just delete the current one and then log in appropriately .
removes extended attributes and ACLs by default implies and ; would require is compress , uses PKZip ( zip ) instead of CPIO Setting tells to remove extended attributes and ACLs instead of creating files The files that start with are AppleDouble files ( not resource forks ) , and they are used to store extended attributes and ACLs . Extended attributes are used to store the quarantine status of files , the source URLs of files downloaded from the Internet , information about aliases ( aliases stop working if extended attributes are removed ) , Spotlight comments , the encoding of files saved with TextEdit , and so on . You can list extended attributes and ACLs with . You can remove extended attributes and ACLs recursively with
You do n't get charged for app upgrades on iOS . You only get notification for free updates .
The default behavior is for iCloud Photo Library not to store full-size versions of your photos on your iPhone and iPad : The theory is that only thumbnails are stored on your iPhone/iPad until you decide to view/edit/share the photo , at which point a device-optimized or full-size version of your photo is downloaded from iCloud . ( Note : I know a full-size copy is downloaded when you edit/share , but it appears that if your iPhone has plenty of space it will download a full-size copy for viewing as well , as opposed to just a device-optimized version . This is likely to avoid having to do a second download later if you decide to share the photo . ) When you start running low on space , iOS will begin pruning less-accessed photos and return to simply thumbnails or device-optimized versions of those . All of this happens automatically in the background and you should n't have to worry about managing space yourself .
end question
start question
Set a screensaver as a background for Desktop ?
You have to open terminal and type and . It will take a lot of resources though , so to quit it , you have to quit the terminal window . source : <URL> and <URL>
Answering my own question . Here 's how you do it : You need to set it a condition for , for example : . Not straightforward , but it works . However , it does n't actually care which order you put the width and height , so this one will find 320x480 images as well as 480x320 images .
The MacBook Air should have come with a bootable USB flash drive for OS reinstalls . Use that and follow the same steps as 10.5.x .
This is possible , because widgets are HTML , CSS , and JavaScript based . Here 's how : First , go to and find the Stickies one . Copy it to and name it ( or something else ) . Close the Stickies widget in Dashboard . Now , go to the version you copied and right-click it . Choose . In the new window that appears , right-click on the file and open it with your favorite JavaScript editor ( if you do n't have one , <URL> is great and free ) . Now , use the editor to find the line ( should be around line 407 ) . You 'll see below that line a bunch of lines similar to each other , saying something like . You want to copy the last one of those ( American Typewriter ) , and paste it back below itself . Then , change it so it looks like this : Save and close this file . Now , open ( from the same folder ) in an HTML editor ( TextWrangler works ) . Find the line that says , ( should be about line 40 ) . Below that , you 'll find a bunch of lines similar to each other , each beginning with . Copy the one for Gill Sans , and paste it below itself . Edit it to say . Save and close this file . Open Terminal and type . This restarts Dashboard . Now , double click the myStickies widget file you made . It will open in Dashboard . Follow the normal procedure of clicking the and changing the font . You 'll have a Courier option , and it will be that font . <URL>
The <URL> is an awesome solution . The app is a simple wrapper of the messenger.com website . I really enjoy using it an this is what I was looking for . The source code is available here on GitHub : <URL> .
Yes . This kind of ' donation ' IAP is fine and approved by Apple . For an example of an app which uses this , see Pedometer + + ( an app promoted by Apple on numerous occasions ) which uses three donation IAPs of different values to allow users more control over the quantity of their donation -- also allowed .
Let 's start with the obvious . A song is considered played once the reproduction ends . It does not matter if you 've listened to all of it or just skipped to the last second of the song , once the song automatically changes to the next one ( or ends the reproduction list ) , the play count is incremented . Now , the less obvious : If a song is skipped in it 's first 10 seconds , the skip count is incremented . If the song is skipped when the are 10 seconds remaining for the song to end , the play count is incremented . If you skip the song in between , nor the skip nor the play count is incremented . The skip can triggered by either using the left arrow key , pressing the fast forward key or just selecting a different song a hitting enter .
You can look <URL> for instructions . Essentially , set your preferred screen saver in the Screen Saver preference pane and run this command in the Terminal to see the screen saver on the desktop :
This is one of the preferences that Server can manage using the managed preferences ( sometimes referred to as MCX on older servers and now called profiles on Lion and later for servers ) . Here is a short Apple document covering the high points on how to use managed preferences and the workgroup manager . This would be a good , safe item to test with in getting started with WorkGroup Manager and a couple of lightly used Macs . <URL>
<URL> ... allows to " easily set one zoom level for all websites and have it remembered . " I 'm using it in Safari 5.1.7 . You can download it from <URL> or <URL> .
Yes , I have <URL> . I got it at Fry 's in exchange for one by sabrent that did n't work with my mid-2010 superdrive . This new one works just fine with my removed superdrive on 10.6.4 , even though the box says it 's compatible with basically every version of windows but does not mention OS X . The one caveat ... it comes with a wall adapter for powering the driver rather than a second usb cable . However , I have a USB to male power cable . I plan to remove the power connector and swap it for the connector that is on the plug in adapter that came with the enclosure . The adapter just outputs 5V 2000mA , so I do n't see any reason why a straight USB connection would n't work just fine . Check out the MCE Optibay alternatives thread on macrumors.com : <URL>
No , iOS handles all the allocating and de-allocating of memory ( RAM ) on its own in the back round . Apps have three states , open , suspended and closed . If an app is suspended which is what usually happens when you close an app and it winds up in the tray ( when you double tap home ) and you need more RAM for you game lets say then ios will automatically make room on the stack for the game by closing the apps that are suspended ( in the tray , in the order they were opened , first to last ) which will open up more memory for your game . In short do n't worry about it . You can close them yourself though if you wish by double tapping the home button then long pressing the app ( s ) you wish to close then pressing a red and white circle that will appear in the upper left hand corner of the app icon .
The drive is a nice , fast server grade drive but the controller is underpowered to be a NAS for professional video work . That being said , even with two people reading / writing lots of small files , the Time Capsule works surprisingly well . At times when 3 or more people are hitting the drive at the same time for small IO , you will certainly see a slow down . Much more so than on a real NAS or server that has RAM to cache the filesystem and not be limited to the physical disk access . So if the usage is low or you are on a tight budget , have at it ! Do be sure to have one of your clients be responsible for backing up all data stored on that volume since most backup solutions do not read from a Time Capsule directly . Using the built in clone tool is not at all optimal for production use , but is fine to make a snapshot over night or over a weekend when you have occasional cause to snapshot the data .
You need an app , like <URL> running continuously on a logged in Mac .
There 's a plugin for Safari called Glims that lets you add different search engines ( including Wikipedia ) to the search bar among other tweaks . You can read about and download it <URL> . <URL> a post on someone 's blog that details how to install it and set your search engines to what you want . Hope that helps !
Yes , this can be done without OnyX . First head to System Preferences > Desktop &amp; Screen Saver > Screen Saver and select one of the screen savers included in OS X , or a third party screen saver that you 've previously installed . Whichever one you choose , just make sure it 's selected as the active screen saver , even if you have it set to never start in the " Start After " duration drop-down menu . Next , launch Terminal ( located in the Applications > Utilities folder ) , copy and paste the following command , and press the Return key on your keyboard to execute it : Source : <URL>
Unfortunately , neither <URL> nor the popular <URL> alternative currently support it , <URL> . I have n't tested it , but the $ 20 <URL> claims to support it .
Use HomeBrew to install fuse4x and sshfs The commands to install are : when you run it , it gives two other commands that I needed to run in order to install the fuse4x kernel extension . Run them . Then , to mount the ssh filesystem it will ask you for your password .
All users share acces to / Applications . Move apps you want restricted to your user 's home folder ~ / Applications and then creat a new user from system preferences .
Apple limits what can run in the background to ensure battery life is not dramatically reduced . Skype will be constrained to the same restrictions that all other App Store apps must follow . Given this , it is fair to assume Skype uses no more than any other Internet telephony app running in the background on your iPhone . Fraser Speirs 's article may be helpful in better understanding <URL> .
end question
start question
To improve browsing performance , is it worth upgrading to iOS 5 , on the original iPad 16GB Wifi ?
The version of Safari that ships with IOS 5 has much better performance than the versions that ship with iOS 4 , as reported in <URL> and <URL> . This increased performance may address the checkerboard rendering issue that you 've mentioned . HTML pipelining was introduced in iOS5 , and may help with the latency that results in slow rendering . Anecdotally , viewing web pages in Safari does seem a lot faster after I upgraded to iOS 5 . Regarding a rollback to iOS 4 if you do n't like iOS 5 - <URL> provides some detailed info in this <URL> .
I used to own an Apple ] [ . It had floating-point BASIC installed in the upper 16kb of memory . " Booting " took maybe 1 second - flip the switch - > Beep - > it 's ready . If you bought a disk drive , the boot loader was in a 256 byte ( bytes , singles , no M or k ) ROM on the interface card . Apple DOS was written onto every floppy disk and took up about 10kb of RAM . Some trivia for your project : The Apple ] [ 's documentation included a fold-out circuit diagram of the computer 's electronics . Just in case you needed to repair it . The documentation also included the complete source code ( 6502 Assembler ) of the operating system . Maybe 30 pages . Assembler at the time was a 1:1 representation of the machine code . I wrote Apple ( on paper - no internet back then ) asking for the Integer BASIC source code for comparison . They wrote back and said they would be happy to send it , but they do n't have a copy . Wozniak apparently wrote Integer BASIC himself , compiled it with a pencil and the Motorola 6502 data sheet , and typed in the resulting hexadecimal opcodes by hand . All bow to the Greatness of The Woz .
It 's a feature kept on iOS so that you can quickly turn off both Wifi and Bluetooth .
I believe there is no way for a end-user to do this . All iOS apps will have Application_Home / Documents , Application_Home / Library , Application_Cache folders . All the files stored in these folders should be managed by application itself . So , it 's true that you ca n't do this without jail breaking .
When you connect your iPad/iPhone you choose your device in left column under the Devices section , then got the Apps tab and select the Apps you want to sync ( Screenshot in german but looks the same in english ) : Afterwards select " Synchronize " at the bottom right to update your iDevice .
Have you tried setting the track number in iTunes and then syncing again ?
From the iLounge <URL> Thus far iOS 4.2 appears to perform as well as iOS 4.1 did under similar conditions . Performance even on older devices such as the iPhone 3G is the same as iOS 4.1 and thus far we have n't observed any significant changes in battery life .
Did you have Find My iPad activated via the iCloud settings on your iPad ? If so , then you will be able to do any of the following on your iPad : locate it on a map send a message to it play a sound on it remotely lock it remotely wipe it Just for the record , when you enable iCloud , options 2 , 3 , 4 and 5 above are automatically enabled . If you have Location Services turned on , Find My iPad can also help you locate your iPad on a map as long as it 's connected to the Internet . If you had this activated , or are n't sure if you did , then follow these steps : use the Find My iPhone app on an iPhone or another iPad or visit <URL> from a computer with a web browser . Log in to your iCloud account ( this may or may not be the same as your usual Apple ID ) . Once you 're logged in , see if your missing iPad is listed under My Devices . If it 's listed , then that means it 's been set up for Find My iPad ( a good sign ) . Now , if it 's currently connected to the internet , you have two possibilities : if you had location services activated on the iPad , you should see its location come up . Clicking/tapping on the icon will display the Actions option and tapping on this will give you the following three choices : Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . if you did n't have location services activated on the iPad , it will display a message like " Online , no location available " . In this case , clicking/tapping on the iPad icon will give you the following four choices : Notify When Found ; Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . If it 's not connected , it will display as being " Offline " . Clicking/tapping on the iPad icon will also display the following four choices : Notify When Found ; Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . Select the option you want . For the benefit of others , there are other services to achieve what you want . However , all of these involve installing third party software on the device ( and since you 're asking the question it 's safe to assume you have n't done this ) . Regardless of whether you have Find My iPad activated , this would be a good time to reset your passwords for any online services , email addresses , etc. . However , in doing so , you would be best to change your email passwords first to minimise the risk of any password reset info being intercepted on the iPad .
You can backup data from apps with a program such as <URL> ( Mac ) or <URL> ( Mac &amp; Windows ) , and restore the data individually per app . Browse , manage and download most any data saved by App Store apps from your iPhone , iPad or iPod Touch . If you 're looking for a quick way to download saved recordings , videos or images from your apps , this is it . Even transfer game high scores between devices . -- PhoneView Open the app in PhoneView or iFunBox , and copy the folders out , then copy them to your new device .
I do not know of a way of shortening the actual boot time : from power on to login dialog window . You might however be able to shorten your login time by removing items from your login items list . You can find the list of user login items here : System Preferences → Accounts → → Login items . Remove stuff that has been added there that you do not want . Use some common sense though . E.g. if you use a calendar app that notifies you of appointments , it might be a bad idea to remove the calendar helper app from your list of login items .
Within Xcode you can specify that an app is iPad only under the " Deployment Info " section of the target 's General settings . Beyond that the way to limit an app to certain devices is by specifying features in the Info.plist under the key . You can see the options listed on Apple 's developer website here : <URL> Unfortunately there does not seem to be an option that limits an app to iPad Pro devices only . You can specify " arm64 " which will limit your app to iPad mini second generation and above , iPad Airs and iPad Pro devices . But I ca n't see an option that says devices that support Apple Pencil only .
No , your Windows VM and all the programs installed on it are stored on a virtual hard drive file . Upgrading Parallels wo n't affect the VM .
It sounds like you 've already discovered that you can <URL> each <URL> sub-account individually to iCloud . Having done that , you can now add the second account to your iPad as a secondary iCloud account by going to . You can also add secondary iCloud accounts in OS X by going to . This way you do n't have to switch users in OS X to access the second iCloud account 's mail . You can migrate remaining MobileMe Family Members by going to <URL> , instead of having to create a new user in OS X to do the migration . Primary iCloud accounts can use a few features that secondary accounts ca n't : iOS 5 : Photo Stream , Documents &amp; Data , and Backup OS X Lion : Bookmarks , Photo Stream , Find My Mac , and iCloud Storage
RAM still is a lot faster than any SSD which you use in your Mac . RAM has a shorter access times and much higher transfer rates : [ <URL> ] The <URL> interface by which the hard disk is connected limits the throughput to a theoretical maximum of 6Gbit/s ( 600MB/s ) for SATA3 . You can determine how much the page outs are written to the disk by taking a look at the Activity Monitor . I try to keep the ratio at a maximum of 10/1 ( page in/page out ) . The more page outs you have , the more like a RAM upgrade will benefit you .
Apple 's App Store requirements are very vague . <URL> for learning how to get your app rejected from the App Store . In short , it says nothing about backwards compatibility .
The MacBook Air came pre-installed with Mac OS X 10.6 Snow Leopard , which was available with a physical installation media only . Here is what I would do in your situation : Parts Replacement ( USB Key Installation Media ) : Contact Apple and ask if they still replace the missing parts ( costs will apply , but I do not know how much ) . Order a Replacement Disc : Ask , if they still sell replacement discs . The costs were reasonable the last time I heard ( ~ $ 15-20 ) . NOTE : The MBA being a Late 2010 may require an installation media unique to its build . So a general-purpose replacement disc of Mac OS X 10.6 Snow Leopard may not work with it . Ask Apple specifically if it works with your daughter 's model before you decide to buy it . Create a USB Thumb Drive from a Replacement Disc : Should the general-purpose disc work , knowing that the MBA does not have an optical drive , if you have a different Mac with an optical drive , you can create a USB drive from it by just cloning it over using Disk Utility . Buying an Optical Drive to Use Disc : If creating the USB thumb drive is not an option for you , you may want to look into buying an optical drive and use that with the disc ( obviously only if the general-purpose disc is an option in the first place ) . The optical drive can be used for other things as well and even used with a potential new Mac computer lacking an optical drive . So , the costs of $ 79 for the drive would not be wasted for a single purpose .
The cable has a faulty connection and takes effort to connect to the iPhone . The TV Out option was n't appearing because the cable was n't connecting to the iPhone unless I pushed it in , held it , and then gently left it alone . When that happens , the TV Out option appears .
1 . If you have iCloud Keychain enabled : Are my existing saved passwords , Wi-Fi networks , and Internet accounts included in iCloud Keychain ? Yes . When you turn on iCloud Keychain , any previously-saved website usernames and passwords , Wi-Fi networks , and Internet accounts are automatically included in iCloud Keychain . From : <URL> You can access to Keychain by the Keychain Access.app ( located in / Applications/Utilities / ) . 2 . Otherwise you can use 1Password . 3 . Finally , you have this post : <URL> Unfortunately , on the iPhone it is not possible to access this information . The passwords are kept on your phone in a safe place that is not accessible through any regular means on the phone . This is done for your protection , if you were to lose your iPhone and someone picked it up , the passwords that are stored on it would be up for grabs . This would lead to a lot of security problems .
I have an iPod Touch 4 with IOS 6.1.6 . I followed the instructions on the link <URL> and now have a fully functional version of ' Podcasts ' . In my case when I initially tried to download Podcasts from the App Store with iPod Touch , it advised that I needed IOS 7 and there was no option to install an older version . However as outlined in link above , I downloaded the Podcasts app in iTunes and then synced my iPod with iTunes . Then I went back into the iPod App Store and tried to download it . This time it still advised that I needed IOS 7 , however it also gave me an option to download a version compatible with IOS 6 . So , the bottom line here is that Podcasts has a compatible version for IOS 6 in App Store , but Apple does not advert this to users ( unless you already have it installed on your iPod ) and make it very hard to get . In my case it 's taken me 2 hours of time to solve this problem . Podcasts are my main use of this perfectly functional device and so getting support for this App was personally very important to me . I hope this helps other users .
Yes , security vulnerabilities that would allow people to hack or infect Macs and iOS products do exist , though they 're not exploited very often . <URL> is an annual contest where competitors try to hack into machines to win them as prizes . Both Macs and iOS products are hacked most years . Here is <URL> : Friday , Apple released an update to its mobile operating system ( iOS 4.3.4 ) which patches a couple of vulnerabilities that left a door open for malware infections on the iPad , 3rd and 4th generation iPod touch , iPhone 4 , and iPhone 3GS . Apple 's update describes the CoreGraphics vulnerability as " A buffer overflow ... in FreeType 's handling of TrueType fonts . Viewing a maliciously crafted PDF file may lead to an unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution . " [ ... ] This update comes on the heels of an alert from German IT group BSI , which warned of an unpatched vulnerability that would " allow attackers to gain access to the entire system with administrative privileges . " Apple does " verify " any software for their App Stores , but developers have been known to sneak in features without Apple 's testers seeing them , so do n't expect this to entirely protect you .
end question
start question
How do I enable CTRL + Scroll zooming ?
That would be under System Prefs > Trackpad ( or mouse , if you use that instead ) > Screen Zoom options :
To fix this problem , I got my iPad charger ( which was disconnected from any power source such as a wall outlet ) , and plugged it into my iPhone , and unplugged it twice . This process fixed the iPhone .
Open System Preferences > Security &amp; Privacy > Privacy > Accessibility > " Click the lock to make changes " > Select " Cinch "
Yes . There is a product called <URL> . The best part is that it 's <URL> One of the features of iTerm2 is that you can remap any of the keys including the ones you asked about . For instance , I remapped Ctrl + Tab to send the text it it worked perfectly . <URL> After hitting Ctrl + Tab , it sends the keystroke : <URL>
Put your finger on the app and hold there . The app will start wobbling and have a cross in a circle at the top left . Then drag it to where you want . If you hit the cross it will delete the app .
Here is the procedure I recommend , for those who are comfortable with the command-line and with Homebrew : Install Homebrew . Run the following on the command line ( in Terminal ) : Edit your shell startup files to ensure that comes first in your . If you use vim as or , add ` export VISUAL = ' mvim - f ' to your environment ( <URL> ) . Check that you installed everything correctly by running Now , you can run the graphical MacVim on a file by running from the command-line . Or , you can run the text-based editor by running . Also , if other programs ( e.g. , git ) fork off a separate editor , they 'll run the graphical MacVim . See also <URL> and <URL> .
My Magic Trackpad did this right out of the box . I believe you should select " Swipe to navigate . "
No . The Mac OS handles the physical drive - so any sort of second level defragmentation , optimizations or attempts of a guest OS to control the virtual file system driver would just add delay and complexity on top of the normal IO . Unless you were booting Windows directly in control of the SSD , this setting should be off .
Source : <URL> Putty is a good SSH client for Windows . 1 ) SSH into your remote OS X machine with an administrator 's log in and password . 2 ) Enable Remote Desktop ( a.k.a. Screen Sharing , a.k.a. VNC ) with this command : 3 ) Login using a VNC client . As I mentioned , TightVNC worked for me ; for some reason , RealVNC and UltraVNC did n't . Your password is " mypasswd " ( see the - vncpw flag in the above command ; you can and should change this ) . 4 ) When you are done , turn of screen sharing using your SSH session :
For each Source/Library item ( Music , Movies , Podcasts ) you want to open with a shortcut , create a new Applescript as follows replacing " Podcasts " with " Music " or " Movies " , and save it with to your ~ / Library/iTunes/Scripts folder ( if this doesn ´ t exist , create it ! ) , giving it an unique name ( like " show podcasts " , " show movies " ) . Next , open " System Preferences " > " Keybaord " > " Keyboard Shortcuts " and select " Application Shortcuts " . Click on the little " plus " button to add a new shortcut with : Now pressing " cmd +2 " ( or whichever shortcut you defined ) while being in iTunes will open the Podcast library item .
The Synology NAS supports a Network Recycle bin , but only for SMB volumes . Therefore if you want to make use of it from your Mac , you need to access the share via SMB and not AFP . This can be enabled from the under . The Synology by itself fully supports Time Machine , and can act as a Time Capsule . Most of the documentation on the Internet mention the Network Trash and Time Capsule option in the same place , but as an Windows/Mac comparison type description . The manual for DSM does not mention Network Trash for Mac either , only for Samba . I am not entirely sure where you read that the Synology supports this feature for OSX , since I could n't find any reference to it in the way you described . OSX , unlike the previous OS 9 , does not support a of any kind , and I am not aware of any plans to bring this feature to OSX . Therefore it also ca n't be activated from the OS layer . I suspect the naming was changed from Network Trash to CIFS Recycle Bin in the new DSM by Synology because of the confusion it has caused .
Ok , so I 've found it . It is not presented as Click to play any longer ( it used to be in previous versions of Chrome and is still presented like this in Chromium ) . If you want to turn this option on you 've got to : Open Settings ( you can do it by clicking ☰ and then Settings or by clicking ⌘ + , ) . Click Show advanced settings ... Enter the Content settings in the Privacy section . Enable Let me choose choose when to run plugin content in the Plugins section . <URL> It seems quite obvious now , but I 've been trying to find this for a few weeks by now , because it was called Click to play before .
I found this application that claims to do what you asked for . <URL>
Enable Disk Access was a feature on the iPods , but has never been an option on the iPhone , iPod Touch , or iPad .
To use a mouse wheel or trackpad to scroll in Terminal.app you 'll need to install <URL> . After installing MouseTerm you 'll need to add to your . vimrc file : If you 're still not able to scroll in elinks it 's possible that it was n't compiled with GPM ( General Purpose Mouse ) support . Since elinks is n't a native application to OS X you probably installed through MacPorts or <URL> . I 'd open the " formula " file for elinks ( by default for Homebrew ) and verify that is n't anywhere to be found . Though your question states you want to do this in Terminal.app I 'd recommend taking a look at <URL> which supports this natively , and has quite a bit more to offer then the stock Terminal app .
I 've had to do this on an iMac with a failed optical drive before . From <URL> : ... then reboot , and hopefully the option will then show up in Finder > Preferences > Sidebar .
You ca n't enable VoiceOver for just one app , but you can easily turn VoiceOver on and off easily . Method 1 ( Siri ) : Just launch Siri ( by pressing and holding the home button ) , and say " Turn on Voice Over " , and and Siri will reply ( no reading necessary ) . You can also turn Voice Over off , by saying " Turn of Voice Over " when you leave the app . <URL> Method 2 ( Acessibility Shortcut ) : Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Accessibility Shortcut and tap " VoiceOver " . Now whenever you triple-click the home button , it will enable voice over , and when you triple click it again , it will disable VoiceOver . <URL>
I use three avenues to prevent hurt feelings all around . First the policy for employee use of equipment spells out that it 's their responsibility to turn in their company equipment and assets . For iOS devices , that means that they remove iCloud activation lock and return the hardware in working order . The financial consequence of failing to do both is explained when the hardware is issued . HR can then choose to deduct that amount from any final pay check as appropriate should the employee choose not to return company property . Apple is very helpful in unlocking equipment that was bought through their channel or that you have a purchase receipt with serial numbers included proving original ownership . Any genius bar or web/phone Apple epmployee can get you started with unlocking one or several devices should you have them but not control of them . MDM solutions such as JAMF casper suite or Configuration profiles to enable remote wipe and/or iOS policies that prevent iCloud usage in the first place if desired and/or allow wiping them to a known original configuration .
Here is the answer to your question : Go to System Preferences Select Accessibility Select Mouse &amp; Trackpad Select Trackpad Options Select Enable dragging withoug Drag Lock
To erase everything and restore the iPhone to the factory state , go into Settings , then General , then Reset . Press " Erase All Content and Settings " . If you have a passcode , you will be prompted to enter it . Select " Erase iPhone " and the wipe will begin . Be sure to have your iPhone connected to a power source as the erase takes a long time . When it 's complete , the iPhone will have no SMS , calendar , phone logs , contacts , etc. .
end question
start question
What does the dynamic global hostname option in sharing settings do ?
All computers running Mac OS X contain a feature called Bonjour . It works by sending multicast DNS packets out onto your current network to advertise your computer 's available services . This is how iTunes Sharing works ; your computer tells other computers that it has a shared iTunes library available , and gives the computers instructions on where to connect to it . Over the past few weeks , I have been experimenting with an extension of the service called Wide Area Bonjour . Instead of sending out multicast DNS packets to your local network , it sends out similar packets to an actual DNS server , which with the correct authentication , updates actual zones in the DNS server . This essentially allows you to use the magic of Bonjour across many networks , or even the Internet . All that 's required is that each computer that is interested in your Bonjour domain has the domain listed in its " Search Domains " ( or " DNS Suffix " ) . The service I have been testing out is Global Hostname , which will host a Wide Area Bonjour-enabled zone for you , either on your own domain , or a subdomain of globalhostname.org . Apple 's AirPort product range feature Wide Area Bonjour to enable you to control your AirPort from wherever you are . Added : Its purpose is to provide features similar to those offered by " Back to My Mac " without using the . Mac/MobileMe service . It requires that you have your own DNS server . If your service provider supports secure dynamic DNS update ( RFC 3007 ) , you can provide your Mac with a global DNS hostname so that other computers outside your local network can refer to it by name . Even if your computer 's IP address changes at regular intervals , your computer will automatically update its global DNS hostname to point to its current IP address . Your service provider or domain administrator will provide you with the necessary user name and password so your Mac can update its hostname every time its address changes . If your service provider supports Wide-Area Bonjour registrations , you can also select the " Advertise services in this domain using Bonjour " checkbox to advertise this computer 's active Sharing services in this domain . If the domain 's administrator enabled Bonjour browsing for this domain , other computers will see the services listed automatically in the respective application , based on the Search Domains entered in their Network preferences or based on information returned by DHCP . :)
When you create an image and you select Compressed , you are doing so at the sake of speed and read/write capability To access the data on a compressed image , you have to uncompress it first ; that takes cycles ( cpu time ) . Secondly , <URL> , the image is read only , not read/write so you will lose that capability as well . The " Compressed " format is great for archival of data , not for daily access .
System > Library > Coreservices > Menu Extras - Double click on the Displays.Menu icon Just like in the old ( 10.3 ? ) days .
The coders at Gmail need to add it , it 's not a user option , I 'm afraid . If Google add it , then it has to go past Apple 's reviewers , to check it 's as safe as they think it is . Sandboxing is pretty tight under iOS . The feature you want is not impossible , it just needs to be implemented at source , not added by the user . The end result is no-one needs an anti-virus scanner on an iDevice ;) Try reporting it on the <URL>
Nvidia offers a CUDA driver and OpenGL driver , for use with their API 's . The application would need to be recompiled with these options for the . app to use the cuda driver . Here is the latest info , from a last month ... <URL> Scroll down to mac OSX section for some good non-programmer - adv programmer info .
Firstly , you must bear in mind that each In-App Purchase is uniquely associated with an Apple ID and that there are different In-App Purchase types : Consumable - You need to purchase these items every time you want them , and you ca n't download them again for free . Non-Consumable - You purchase these items one time , and you can transfer them to multiple devices authorized with the same iTunes Store account . Non-renewing Subscriptions - You can purchase these items again after the subscription period ends . Auto-Renewable Subscriptions - You can purchase these items with different renewal periods . There are , therefore , differences in the way the availability of the product is handled . As stated on Apple 's <URL> : You ca n't sync or transfer non-renewing subscriptions and consumable In-App Purchase to another iOS device or Mac . You can transfer non-consumable In-App Purchases and auto-renewable subscriptions to another iOS device or Mac authorized with your iTunes Store account . For example , if you transfer a game from an iPhone to an iPod touch , only the game levels will sync , and the extra ammo and experience points wo n't transfer .
I used it today . Lion to Snow Leopard and Lion to Lion . Worked fine . I did n't even think about it not working until I read this ... :-)
According to <URL> , the main filesystem is HFSX . HSFX All Apple mobile devices use HFSX as the file system . HFSX is a variation of HFS + with one major difference . HFSX is case sensitive . HFSX is reported by Apple as <URL> . There are two main partitions of HFSX : the OS and the user data . Prior to these partitions is the usual MBR partition ( around 100 MB ) . SSHing into my jailbroken iOS 6 device seems to support this , since I can create case-sensitive directories . Creating the following directories was no problem :
ddclient is what I use on my Linux boxes . Works really well . You can find instructions details here : <URL> I think all you would need to do to get ddclient to run is to a @reboot line to your crontab and you 're set . then add this line :
Reminders You can create a service using the Automator : Open Automator.app Select Service For Reminders : Add action Ask for Text to prompt for a new To Do Add action New Reminders Item Save Service Create Shortcut in : System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Keyboard & #x 2192 ; Keyboard Shortcuts & #x 2192 ; Services & #x 2192 ; Text Notes See Mohamad Elwan 's answer for notes
It accumulates all the CPU time for input/output ( i/o ) processing delays and calculations as well as scheduling of processes and threads . If you watch it after a reboot you will see it starts with minimal RAM and CPU needs and instead grows only when other programs run and need the system services . To slim it down , shut off unneeded ports ( WiFi , bluetooth , etc. . . ) as well as idle / unused programs . If things do n't settle down , consider rebooting to ensure no task is stuck or leaking memory . If you have programs doing real work , they will cause the kernel to use both memory and processor time - just watch as you start things to see which other programs are causing this behavior . It 's rarely an issue with the kernel - even with badly performing programs - that ca n't be solved by logging out and back in again . The kernel_task cleans up well and generally takes care to only use the resources needed by the workload .
This sounds like a bug in the power management software and I can not reproduce the issue with my current MacBook Air . Have you been watching the power settings with the command ? The command might show you something to help debug why this is happening . Worst case , you can have a few tabs open in terminal and watch and to see if some program is somehow overriding the defaults that you have set . These logs and the timings would also make for a good bug report if you determined that it was simply an error in programming on Apple 's part .
Apparently not much these days unless you want to play standard definition content or heavily mod the thing . See here for more info on making it into a useful device for that purpose ( Kodi can be configured to stream media from those services you mentioned ) : <URL>
For starters , encrypting your Home folder using FileVault ( in the Security Preferences pane ) is always a good idea . You might notice a bit of a performance hit ( some people say they do , others do n't notice a difference ) , but the tradeoff of additional security can give you some extra peace of mind . As far as an iPhone-esque " wipe memory after [ x ] failed login attempts " function , the OS does n't have anything like that built in , so you 'd need to search out a 3rd party solution . I do n't have any recommendations offhand for that , but likely someone else here could point you in the right direction .
You can only dial emergency numbers , which vary by country/region ( 911 in the US ; certain countries such as France have multiple emergency numbers ) . Dialing regular numbers produces the following error : Starting with iOS 8 , you may also dial emergency contacts by opening your Medical ID . Interestingly , as of iOS 9.3.4 , if you have one of those numbers memorized , you can not punch it in directly . You must go through the Medical ID to ring it up .
The simplest way is to create your own Service and call it whatever you want to name it . I created a service simply called and put it in my context menu like I have done here : Make Your Own Delete Service Open up Automator ( / Applications/Utilities/Automator ) and create a new Service At the top right pane , select in On the left most pane , select and drag the option to the workflow Change the " Pass input " field to Pase the following into the shell script body 6 . Click > on the menubar and give you service a name . Whatever you name it , is what it will be called This will enable it immediately on your system . If you ever decide you do n't want it , and need to replace this item , navigate to and you will see a list of folders called . To remove the one you do n't want , just delete it then in Terminal type This will restart the Finder and remove it from the context menu straight away . Otherwise , it will clear up on next restart . Add Keyboard Shortcut To make a keyboard shortcut for the Service you created , follow these steps : From the Desktop , click the word Finder in the top left hand corner of the screen , then go to Services > Services Preferences Scroll down the list on the right until you find the service you created by name . In this example , you can see that I made earlier . Highlight it , and click on . This will bring up a box . Make sure your mouse cursor is in there and depress the keys that you want to use to set the shortcut . In my example , I have used the combination Control + Shift + L. Press Show All to save your settings . Keyboard Symbols To help anyone new to Apple keyboard symbols , here they are as follows : ^ = Control ⇧ = Shift ⌘ = Command ⌥ = Alt/Option
I 'm not aware of a good way to modify the radio broadcast power level on the built-in card on a Mac . However , you may find that setting up a <URL> achieves your goal of limiting the range . Regarding your second question , there have been previous inquiries about changing the WiFi encryption protocol on Mac Ad-Hoc networks from WEP with no results .
You will need to edit the rEFIt configuration file . Since version 0.14 , the configuration file has supported adding a default boot selection , as documented in the <URL> . However , there is n't very clear documentation on how exactly to do this on rEFIt 's website . You could just open the conf file , or view the default on their SVN repo <URL> . This <URL> does have an example and some documentation that I 've used before in a similar situation . You 'll want to use the digit option instead of the OS type option ( 1-N , vs L , W , M ) .
The LTE toggle shows up when your carrier settings indicate LTE is available for your device . If you have data , you can update OTA by going to Settings > General > About and waiting ( or tapping on your current carrier settings to see the details ) . A tethered check is also available by connecting your iPhone to iTunes and <URL> for your provider . If there is n't , the most likely explanation is that your provider has not enabled LTE in their carrier settings . If so , contact your provider on whether any LTE ( even if not theirs ) will work on your iPhone .
I do n't know about the 7200 , but my mid-2010 MBP has the following ( from system profiler ) : I too had trouble with noise and vibration with a Seagate Momentus XT ( the hybrid drive ) . After reinstalling the stock drive it 's quiet and vibration free again .
end question
start question
iTunes Match - No More Backups Needed ?
No , you do n't need a backup any more . iTunes Match stores nothing in the Cloud , it activates your songs in the iTunes Store , and only the songs iTunes does n't have are uploaded to the Apple Server . But if your HDD suffers damage , you have to download all your 50 GB again .
You do n't need to download a song on your iOS devise via iTunes Match to get its artwork updated on that device . All you need to do is go into Settings - > Music - > turn off iTunes Match , and then turn it back on . All artwork will update over a few minutes . ( I turned device off and back on again before turning Match back on just to be safe , but not sure it 's necessary . ) You can go into your Music and see the little spinning wheel constantly working a half second at a time ( for each album cover being updated from A to Z ) . with iTunes recent update to artwork , this is how I got the new artwork over to my iOS device .
I 've never seen a single instance here I could pin a performance issue on Mission Control having 5 spaces instead of 15 instead of one . Something else always seems to be the constraint such as RAM pressure or IO pressure . The code that manages the window system already treats each layer virtually and the math is done in some heavily optimized routines and the data structures there are quite well designed so although in theory - tracking more pixels could be a problem for performance , in reality it is n't . If you are skeptical , you can reboot your Mac and do this test : Open whatever set of Apps and documents you want to test with . Enter Mission control and delete all the spaces except for one . Open terminal and run Watch for a few minutes to be sure all the running processes are done allocating RAM . Switch to each App and hide or show the windows you want for your test . Once the free and active numbers are steady - open mission control and leave it open for a minute or two - then go back and inspect RAM allocations . Add another 10 spaces and see how RAM allocations change . Move app windows to any desktop and verify that no significant RAM allocation changes happen when you are using Mission Control and that they only happen when an app opens a new document or window . Yes - if you tend to keep more things open when you have more " virtual space " , that takes more RAM , but the fact that you have X apps and Y windows open is what takes the RAM - not which of Z mission control virtual screens you have open at any one time .
In short , no . When you turn on iTunes Match on your phone , nothing happens automatically . The key setting is in : Show All Music - if this is turned on , all music that you 've uploaded to iTunes Match appears in the Music app on your iPhone . However , this music is not actually present in your phone 's storage . If Show All Music is turned off , only music that is in your phone 's storage appears in the Music app . Once the Music app is showing your iTunes Match music , there are two ways these tracks will actually be stored on your iPhone : If you just start playing music , it will by default stream the track from Apple 's servers ( if you 're not on a Wifi network , it will only do this if the setting is on ) . When you stream a track , it will be downloaded to your iPhone and subsequently stored . If you tap the download button that appears when you view Albums or Playlists , the associated tracks will begin downloading from Apple 's servers , to be stored on your iPhone . In both cases , you retain control over what actually takes up space on your phone : only the music that you either choose to play or explicitly download . There are two other details worth noting here : I believe that , when space on your iPhone starts to get limited , iTunes Match tracks that have been streamed to your device may be deleted from storage to reclaim space ( the idea being that you can always stream them again ) . I do n't know whether or not tracks that you explicitly chose to download will also be cleaned up in this way . If the settings are on , your phone will automatically download new songs ( or apps , or books ) that you purchase on your other devices . However , your existing purchases will not be downloaded automatically .
You can extract your iPhone contacts and back them up to your computer via <URL> . Then use the same program to transfer the contacts from your computer to your new iPhone .
I can only say that this is true . Mail.app has to be open to get notifications . A workaround : Open Mail , and close it with the red dot ( or command + w ) . So the blue point under the icon in the Dock is still there . So you have no window open but mail is still getting emails . There is no app or anything there yet to fix this " problem " .
The short answer is Yes . If the Time Machine drive is accessible to Windows ( via MacDrive or anything else ) , then it can be corrupted and directly destroyed . For this reason , I recommend turning off your Time Machine drive while in Windows . Another possibility is that modifications to your primary drive could cause its ID to change , which would break its association with its existing Time Machine backups . The old Time Machine backups would still be there on the backup drive , but they would be treated as being backups of a different system . It sounds like this is probably what happened . It could be because you ( or something ) renamed the primary drive or otherwise tried to change it at the root level . But since you saw a MacDrive error , its more likely a glitch in MacDrive . There 's not much you can do to prevent that except not use it . Try running a Disk Utility check on all drives , preferably while booted from a DVD or an external drive . That will at least make sure nothing worse happened .
You can do this by creating a Smart Playlist : ( I 'm using a Mac , but it will be similar for you ) Set the " Album Artwork " rule to " false " : This will update automatically as you add artwork to your albums . And you can simply delete this playlist when you 're done .
iTunes Match , when turned on , actually suppresses the Store link for iTunes Plus in the iTunes app on a Mac or PC . The option to upgrade no longer appears to Match subscribers . There is no reason to upgrade . My personal old-school drm-sullied iTunes songs are now available to me without DRM through Match now that I 've subscribed and synced my library .
These files are stored in / . MobileBackups / and / . DocumentRevisions-V100 / . I am very surprised that your backup is so large - my Backups are only 300MB ! According to the Time Machine preference pane , TM will " keep local snapshots as space permits " . Do you have a lot of spare disk space ? Since these folders are owned by root , to check the size of these folders you 'll need to use sudo , or log in as root user . E.g. the command line commands :
Try <URL> ( <URL> ) . It has convenient toggles in Notification Center and Apple Watch .
First of all , all wireless systems use the most power when transmitting , ie actively powering the antenna to upload data . Now , just think of the ranges the different systems have to bridge . WiFi works well for like 30 meters , or 100 meters outdoors . Usually , the nearest cell tower is considerably farther away than those 100 meters , therefore , 3G needs more power than WiFi . Add to this that 3G is capable of opening multiple connections at once , and the fact that 3G autmatically boosts power output on weak signals , 3G needs more power .
There 's no official way to achieve this , however you can try <URL> in a certain order until they match the colour you want .
In late 2009 , <URL> , a site that did pretty much what present day iTunes Match does . It analyzed tracks you already owned , and allowed you to stream the ones you already had on your hard drive . The way the technology works is by analyzing the waveform of the music file and matching it to an existing database of known song digital audio fingerprints . Obviously , that 's way oversimplifying , but the basic idea of why you do n't have to upload a lot of your library , as iTunes Match and formerly LaLa.com have an existing db of song " fingerprints . "
I have n't tested it ( Match is not available for my country ) but from the <URL> it looks like you should be able to delete the songs locally and rely on the cloud storage to stream : Once your music is in iCloud , you can stream it to any of your devices . Just browse the complete list of all your music stored in the cloud . To listen to a song , tap the iCloud icon next to it and your song starts playing . You can store up to 25,000 songs in iCloud ( more if songs are purchased from the iTunes Store ) , but only what you want to play is stored on your device . So you have immediate access to a huge music library without taking up storage space . Have a look at this <URL> , it seems that after a song is matched and you try to delete it , a copy will be kept on the HDD in order to play it faster and not redownload it . Edit : I assume you 're aware of the perils of solely relying on cloud storage for your music library : it will only work while connected to the cloud , availability is subject to Apple 's benevolence ( with little warranty ) and terms of use might change anytime .
<URL> Time Capsule , Mac OS X v10 .6.3 or later : How to transfer your back up from an existing Time Capsule to a new one For this process , you should leave your computer in the same room as the Time Capsules , or use one Ethernet cable to connect your Mac to the Ethernet port on the existing Time Capsule , then use another Ethernet cable to connect from the existing Time Capsule to the new Time Capsule . Configure your Time Capsule for your network . See the documentation that came with your Time Capsule for information about setting it up on your network . Open Time Machine preferences in System Preferences . Slide the Time Machine switch to Off . Open a Finder window . Locate both Time Capsules listed in the SHARED section of the navigation pane on the left of the Finder window . Note : If you do not see your Time Capsules in that section , choose Preferences from the Finder menu and make sure " Connected servers " is checked under SHARED . Select the name of the new Time Capsule in the navigation pane . The default name is " Time Capsule xxxxxx " , with xxxxxx being the last digits of the ID printed on the bottom of the Time Capsule . Mount the volume by double-clicking the name of the volume in the Finder window 's main section . The default drive name is " Data " . Open a new Finder window by pressing Command-N , or by choosing File > New Finder Window . Repeat the previous 2 steps with the other Time Capsule , to mount it . Drag your backup disk image from the current Time Capsule to the new Time Capsule . This can take some time to complete because your entire backup will be copied . Open Time Machine preferences in System Preferences . Click " Select Disk ... " , then select your new Time Capsule . Perform a Time Machine back up . After the back up , you can remove the Ethernet cables if desired and configure your wireless network to your liking .
This separation of " sound effects " and " games/music " exists in iPod Touch 4 as well . There is no way for tuning a master volume on these devices . But you can set the " sound effects " volume as constant ( - - turn off ) and pressing volume buttons will only change the " games/music " volume .
No . Each family member would have to use purchases in the cloud to download your entire music library . I know of several people that tried family sharing and I 've gone back to one Apple ID because of how well iTunes match works for them . Losing that feature to gain the rest was n't worth it in the short run . My gut feeling is that sharing between two adults it 's better to stick with one Apple ID and families with small children will prefer a family sharing in the 8.0 incarnation of the feature
I actually wrote an article on this . The relevant part : When you end your iTunes Match sub , you can only access songs you 've downloaded , they will not be available to download after the sub ends . You can continue to play the songs that exist on your device . Your iTunes Match library will only be stored online for 30 days after you cancel . <URL>
Basically none . If you are not using their trademarks , logo by itself - which is entirely different than using the physical product as built by Apple or as modified in any way you please to change it with painting , stickers , or a even a hammer . You probably do n't even need a license to show the software if that is incidental to the picture . What you ca n't do is imply that Apple endorses the film or use Apple products in marketing your film . If you are thorough , you will want to have a look at both Apple 's legal trademarks information and consult with whatever lawyer ( or paralegal ) is helping you with other legal aspects of making a movie that is familiar with the laws in your specific filming/distribution locations . Here is Apple 's main trademark page : <URL> In it , you are not really a reseller or advertising the movie itself with the product and trademarked design and logos , so read that portion but do n't take it too seriously for the things that do n't make sense . Pay attention to how Apple prefers their product to be depicted in photographs . Also - there is a tidbit about mailing Apple directly for product placement . Marketing or advertising requests ( which may include promotions/giveaways , sponsorship , product placement , and partnership requests ) may be emailed to wwmarcom@apple.com You might not get free product to use , but you should get a nice package covering their desires and wishes for product placement . Even if you were using Macs in a light that Apple prefers not to see - you might be covered under free speech and artistic expression rights , but I would n't expect Apple to spell out that on their pages - so check with your legal team for that if you have concerns . Good luck filming your project .
end question
start question
Is it possible to copy iPhone data to Mac using Xcode ?
The window that popped up was probably the Photos app , that will typically auto start when a new device with photos is attached . Your friend did the right thing by closing it when he saw it happen . No copies of your photos would have been made at this time , only thumbnails were downloaded and those would be removed when Photos was closed . He theoretically could have copied some data , but Xcode will not automatically copy anything sensitive , so unless he is a really sneaky ' friend ' that set up his Mac to copy in the background in advance , I think you are probably OK .
Here are the steps I use to install Windows without needing to burn to a DVD or flash drive . Keep in mind that the final product will NOT be a virtual machine : Install VirtualBox from <URL> . Make sure it installs the command line tools . Once installed , open it and create a new VM by clicking " New " on the top left . Select the type to be " Microsoft Windows " , and select the version as " Windows 8.1 ( 64 bit ) " , then give it a name of your choosing . Click " Continue " Click continue again ( it wo n't matter how much RAM you give it for this process ) . Select " Do not add a virtual hard drive " . We will be creating one on our own for our purposes . Click " Create " , then " Continue " . Now we have to open the Terminal . Type the following command : . From the list of disks , make a note of the disk identifier in the last column that belongs to the 30GB partition you created for Windows . We will need this in the next step Run the command . Replace disk #s # with the identifier from earlier . Enter your password and push return . Also run . Use the same identifier , but replace the last number with a 1 . Also run using the first half of your identifier ( minus the s # part ) . Unmount the disk by typing again , using your identifier . Now we have to create the disk for the VM to use for installation . Run the command . Replace " disk # " with the appropriate first half of the identifier from earlier , and replace the second # sign with the last number in your identifier . Unmount the disk again , using your identifier . Now you should have a " . vmdk " file in your home folder . Go back into VirtualBox , select the VM you created , and click " Settings " . Select the " Storage " tab , click on the " SATA " controller and click the second " + " sign directly to right of the controller ( the hover text is " Add Hard Disk ) . ( Note : Due to a fairly old bug , you ca n't command + tab away from the selection window we 're about to create without VirtualBox bugging out and requiring a restart of the app . Try to complete this in one step ) Click " Choose existing disk " , and navigate to the VMDK we just created , which should be in your home folder . Click it and select " Open " . Now you should see the newly added disk just below the " SATA " controller . Click on " Empty " just below the " IDE " controller , check " Live CD/DVD " , and click the little CD icon next to " IDE Secondary " . ( Note : The same bug applies here . Try to do this in one step . ) Click " Choose a virtual CD/DVD disk file ... " , navigate to your ISO , and open it . Start the VM and install windows on the 30G partition . When the installation is done and you 're logged in , shut down Windows and you should see the disk created by Windows appear on the desktop . You can get the Boot Camp drivers for your laptop from <URL> . Put this on a flash drive formatted as ExFAT or FAT so Windows can read it . You should now be able to reboot into Windows by holding alt down , or selecting the disk in Startup Disk preferences . This is a long process , but I believe I 've covered all the steps involved ... Let me know if anything goes wrong !
You can set and change your price at any time . You can set price changes immediately , or scheduled ahead of time . You can choose which price from a range of tiers provided by Apple . eg . 99c , 1.99 , 4.99 , etc. . You ca n't yourself choose 49c or $ 2.68 , or any arbitrary value . See : <URL> <URL> <URL>
The only thing you can do is to copy a cell without borders over the one that has . If you type the info in first at least you do n't have to remember it .
Select the photos you want , then select the menu command " Image " - > " Adjust Date and Time ... " which pops up the window that you are looking for . It seems as though it also gives control over the time zone for images with location data .
Once you use the Instant Send hotkey to select the file in Launchbar ... You can start typing " Applications " to select your folder . Then press Return and select Copy to " Applications " from the menu .
You need to drag a tab - Safari wo n't let you drag an entire window into another one . You can hit ⌘ T to create a new empty tab ( thus making the tab interface visible ) , then drag your original tab to the other window .
No , this option does n't exist . ( Perhaps because it would be to some extent a security risk . ) You might remain signed in for a short period of time , but you ca n't automatically log yourself in .
Are you just using the dictation feature ( the microphone button on the keyboard ) , or sending email or texts/iMessages through Siri ( holding down the home button , telling Siri to send a message ... ) ? If you 're using the Siri function , when it prompts you if you want to send it , you can ask Siri to " read it to me " or " review it " and it will be read back to you . If you 're just using the dictation ( which technically is n't Siri ) , your best option is to use VoiceOver , as <URL> .
No . The credit shown in the Mac App Store or iTunes App Stores is not spendable from the retail stores or the online store . There is a physical gift card that can be bought for online store or retail store use , but it 's not the same bucket of funds as the iTunes store gift cards . See <URL> for more details ...
Fire . Unfortunately that would seem to be at odds with Amazon 's return policy . If Disk Utility ca n't see the drive , it 's unlikely you 'll be able to access it to overwrite anything ( and overwriting on SSDs can be tricky in any event ) . Additionally , because the drive in the rMBP is a proprietary form factor , it 's difficult to take it out and try to access it from another computer ( which might not help any way ) . There may be adapters made in the future , but I 'm not aware of any for sale at the moment . The best preventative measure for this would be to employ some form of whole drive encryption , like Apple 's <URL> . That way even if someone is able to read the data off the drive , it wo n't be useable unless they have your encryption password .
Unlike previous attempts at OS X resolution independence , HiDPI mode has a fixed 2x scaling factor . There 's no way to change that scale factor , nor would I expect things to work well even if you could . In fact , prior to 10.7.3 or .4 , HiDPI still had some bugs here and there . There 's a <URL> in John Siracusa 's Lion review at Ars Technica if you want a bit more detail .
As described in Apples <URL> : To delete the Keychain completely , you have to deselect in the iCloud Account details under system preferences . After that , turn off the Keychain usage on every device that is using it . This will delete the complete keychain . Turning on the will result in a clean keychain . If you want to edit items stored in the iCloud keychain you can do so via the Mac OS X keychain app or from your iDevice in the Safari preferences . Mac OS X example : On the left , select iCloud and delete / edit items on the right .
No , because of completely different executable-architectures . Only if you 're willing to recompile them for OSX and they 're Darwin based .
I do not know if there is such a possibility to have this as a default behavior but you could simply move the application to your user application directory or anywhere else . Finder by default creates an alias when you drag an application out of the folder . However , if you hold down the " Command " key while dragging your applications , they will move to wherever you drag them . If you want to go a geekier route , you can also use Terminal and execute this command : After promting for your login password everything is fine . Be sure to be administrator of your system . This certainly works for me . I can use the application as usual and it receives all updates via the Mac App Store .
You have to migrate all your code to Swift 1.2 if you 're using Xcode 6.3 . If you go to Edit > Convert > To Latest Swift Syntax , it will help find many of the changes . However , there 's still a lot of manual editing to do . In the long run , it will serve you better to keep your Swift code at the latest version so that future migrations are easier and so that you can take advantage of future enhancements to the language .
It is not possible to install Siri . The iPhone 4S is the only iPhone that includes this system-wide functionality . You may have read about the Siri app , which is what the Siri team originally developed before their company was acquired by Apple . This app was available for older iPhohe models . However , when the iPhone 4S was released , the Siri app was discontinued . Hope this helps .
OK , this might be somewhat opinion-based , however ... Possible , yes . Worth it , no . Possible There are tools &amp; online guides far too long to repro or précis here on how to achieve it . It requires hacking the firmware &amp; needs re-hacking at each update - These guides from MacRumors are as good as they get , one for <URL> &amp; another for <URL> . Worth it ? The 1,1 &amp; 2,1 are really end-of-life &amp; now very slow compared to a ' modern ' machine . I really guess it depends on your budget , but you can get an absolute top-flight 5,1 [ or the smart money goes on a 4,1 with the Apple upgrade kit ] with two 6-core hyperthreading Xeons @ 3.46 GHz &amp; 64GB RAM for under # 1800 in the UK . Your existing drives will just carry over [ though idk about the OS itself , mine did from a 3,1 to 5,1 ] . The Geekbench scores on those are about 32k , that 's slightly under the current top model ' trash-can ' at 33k . I just checked the score for the 2.66 Mac Pro , 6k . I took the latter path , even though I was only moving up from a 3,1 - which is now in the hands of my partner &amp; very happily running El Capitan . I wanted a speed boost &amp; the upgraded 4,1 was right on the money for me .
There 's an app called <URL> that seems to do exactly what you need . The one downside is that it needs to be installed on the host computer to work .
How to get serial numbers for displays : Go to . Open this with TextWrangler or a similar utility . Look for a key with an integer value that is n't 0 . With any luck , this should be the s/n of your display . If you have n't used this display for a while , the records of it may be gone . Also , it appears that this is n't guaranteed . Double-check if possible . How to get the serial numbers for iPods : Open . Look under the Devices dictionary . Any iPod you 've connected will have all its info there , including the s/n ( under ) . Good luck .
end question
start question
How do I get the name of the wifi network I 'm connected to ?
This uses the airport CLI , with the flag to show information and grep for SSID shows the name of the network .
This is n't a pretty way to do it , but it does get you the info you desire : The command is slow , mostly because of how much data spews out . But as a summary : lists loads of info about the system is a " pipe " and puts the output of 1 to another command ( 3 ) searches for patterns/words , in our case " Interfaces " The switch prints out the 15 lines following the match . Example output : You can limit to a lower number ( say 3 ) to just get the card id and the Firmware version ( i.e. That 'll be the chipset ) . If that is too much info , you can always get some info on your interfaces with or , but neither includes info about the chipset/manu unless you want to parse it out of the MAC address ( first 6 chars , I think ) . Otherwise , you could look into installing , but that is probably in the scope of another question .
Quoting from an <URL> ( emphasis mine ) : When you connect a device to your Personal Hotspot , the status bar turns blue and shows how many devices have joined . The number of devices that can join your Personal Hotspot at one time depends on your carrier and iPhone model . I believe the typical limit is usually between 3 to 5 devices .
Option + Wifi Menu Hold the <URL> down and select your WiFi icon in the menu bar ( & #x 2325 ; + ) . Additional information in the menu includes " Channel : " and ( 5 GHz ) or ( 2.4 GHz ) for the current radio settings . As seen in Yosemite : Wireless Diagnostics.app You can get even more information from System Information . But I usually open the <URL> ( in Applications > Utilities folder ) . Choose > to get more detailed WiFi networking or scan for better channels , check for interference , etc. .
You can not use your Wi-Fi connection for Internet connectivity while other devices are using Wi-Fi for Personal Hotspot . You can share only a cellular data connection ; you can not share a Wi-Fi connection . As seen here : <URL>
It depends on the service order set in System Preferences - > Network . The first one that has a route to the requested endpoint will be used . Click on the wheel icon at the bottom left and choose . Then drag the items into the required order . This is the order on m machine which I do not think I have altered .
I 've set a stylesheet in Safari and these are the changes that occurred in Safari 's plist : Your command line would be :
In the Save As dialog , there 's a box that says " Run only " . Check that when you save .
Go to the Security pane of System Preferences . Uncheck the box that says , " Log out after [ ## ] minutes of inactivity . "
When this happens , it 's usually because the nickname field is also filled in . The nickname field trumps the phonetic first name field . So if you ever used the Siri command " Call me ... " she would automatically fill in the nickname field , making the phonetic field useless . To fix the problem , either write the phonetic spelling inside the nickname field , or delete the nickname field and write the phonetic spelling in the phonetic first name field . Tip : To hear her pronounce your name , you can ask her , " What is my name ? " The advantage of using the phonetic spelling field is that it expresses the property more accurately . However , I noticed that it has a flaw in that it messes with the sorting in the Contacts app ( especially if you sort by first name and include an accented character to help with the pronunciation ) . Therefore , you might want to use the nickname field instead of phonetic spelling .
Go to your account settings , delete your iCloud account , reboot , add it again .
You can do this without having to install any additional apps or software . Just use the command and the free geo ip website <URL> . Execute the following command in Terminal ( I am using Apple 's IP for this example ) : You will get your results in an XML format : You can even issue the same command using the domain name instead of the IP : Other Formats ... freegeoip.net also supports CSV , and JSON CSV : JSON :
The closest answer to my problem could be : which shows for example : Ignoring the date of the " SystemKey " - file .
If you have single WiFi card then you can not use it for receiving and sending WiFi . If your internet comes from cable ( Ethernet ) or from a USB - WiFi , then those can be shared using your WiFi card .
I looked for some generic commands that display/manipulate kernel extensions . got my attention and based on its output , the 4th column is The number of bytes of kernel memory that the kext occupies . If this is zero , the kext is a built-in part of the kernel that has a record as a kext for resolving dependencies among kexts . The only problem was that its size was in hexadecimal . So I converted the hexadecimal to decimal and printed only relevant information ( like kext bundle id ) . Breaking it down : - print a list of loaded non-built-in kexts - pipe the output to , convert the 4th " size " column from hexadecimal to decimal , print that and the kext bundle id . - pipe the output to command and sort the list using numerical comparison ( so that " 10 " is not less than " 1 " ) . You can pipe the output to to get top 3 memory hoggers . Here are mine : Update : you can also pipe this to to see which non-apple kexts are loaded .
Wake for wifi network access ( aka Wake on Demand but with Wifi ) allows your computer to be brought out of sleep mode when someone else on the network requests access to a service on your computer eg . File sharing . From this <URL> Wake on Demand helps you save energy and reduce costs while still ensuring full access to all your shared files and devices , even remotely across the Internet . Wake on Demand works by partnering with a service running on your AirPort Base Station or Time Capsule called Bonjour Sleep Proxy . When Wake on Demand is enabled , any Mac on your network running OS X will automatically register itself and its shared items with the Bonjour Sleep Proxy . When a request is made to access a shared item on a Mac running OS X , the Bonjour Sleep Proxy asks that Mac to wake and handle the request . Once that request is complete , the Mac will go back to sleep at its regularly-scheduled interval as set in the Computer Sleep section of the Energy Saver preferences pane .
With iOS 7 You can not untrust with iOS 7 . Once you respond with " Trust " , you can not change it . If it 's not prompting you now when you connect , it means you have chosen to trust it before . Snippet from the end of this Apple support article titled " <URL> " : Additional Information Note : If you select Trust , the computer will be trusted indefinitely . If you select Do n't Trust , you will be asked if you want to trust that computer each time you connect your device to that computer . Last Modified : Sep 18 , 2013 With iOS 8 With iOS 8 , Apple has provided ways to untrust all previously trusted computers ( there is no way to untrust computers selectively ) . Depending on how you do it , this will result in losing your location and privacy settings or losing your network settings or losing everything with the " erase device " option . The <URL> KB article referenced above has been updated as follows : If you tap Trust , the computer will be trusted until you untrust all computers or you erase the device . If you tap Do n't Trust , you 'll see this alert each time you connect your device to that computer . If you 're using iOS 8 or later : To untrust all computers , tap Settings > General > Reset > Reset Location &amp; Privacy . This will also reset your location and privacy settings . You can also untrust all computers by tapping Settings > General > Reset > Reset Network Settings . This will also reset your network settings . Last Modified : Sep 17 , 2014
The short answer is yes - the 4G on the iPhone 4S is merely a label change for AT&amp;T 's HSPA + network . More info can be found in <URL> . From <URL> for the iPad 2 : Wi-Fi + 3G for AT&amp;T UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) From <URL> for the iPhone 4s : UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz )
There was no DVD for Mountain Lion . Since Lion arrived with the App Store as a digital release , the core OS is not something you re-download from the store . You do n't need to pay to re-download , but you do have to go through the Recovery HD to initiate the download . When you buy an upgrade from Snow Leopard to Lion or an upgrade to Mountain Lion - that installer can be re-downloaded , but when the OS is included with a CPU purchase , you do n't need to have an Apple ID or account to re-download the OS . You just enter recovery mode and run the installer . It downloads the package after verifying eligibility by checking the serial number on the Mac hardware . If you interrupt the process , you can grab the installer from the drive - but it 's not something that the system was designed to deliver to you as a downloadable package . It was designed to download and re-install on an " as-needed " basis without needing an account , a password - just an internet connection and some time to wait for the download .
So you went to your Keynote presentation document file and used the Finder to " Show Package Contents " then you deleted the image files you found in there . That would cause problems . Try this : Open a new Keynote document and select the Theme that you want to use as the basis for your presentation . Now do ... Delete all Master Slides that you do n't need . If you need a Master Slide with an image , replace the image with a small place holder image . For example , a JPG file with a solid color . Remove the Back Ground Image from All Remaining master slides , and remove any other unneeded elements from the slides . Click the button at the bottom of the Master Slide editing screen ( which will probably do nothing ) Give it a name such as " Church Music " Now you can create a new presentation using the " Church Music " theme . Your theme will be on the " My Themes " tab of the theme browser . After you save , you can now view the presentation 's Package Contents to make sure that there is no unused items . Keynote will generate a variety of slide previews and other images which you need to keep , but these should be very small . If there is stuff that you really do n't need , you might try re-editing the Themes Master Slides .
end question
start question
Can I gather the associated email address from an iMessage that was sent from a phone number ?
I see the mostly likely cause of this being the possibility that your default sending address is set to your email address . I say this because it appears that you initiated the conversation . You can check ( and change ) this by going to Settings.app - > Messages - > Send &amp; Receive . Under " Start new conversations from : " , observe whether your email address or phone number is selected . If your email address is selected , this would be an easy explanation as to why this happened . Otherwise , as far as I know , ( and I have just went over this to verify ) , it is impossible to extract the email address that is associated with an iMessage phone number from just a regular iMessage " text " .
When you do this , you should get a dropdown selection box that has your various email addresses in it . You can choose in there . If your gmail does n't show up there , then go to iPhoto in the menu , click Preferences , click Accounts , click the plus , click Email , click Add , click Gmail , and provide the relevant info .
Actually , if you just want to remove the " @me " from the " from " drop down when creating an email ( I found this excruciatingly annoying ) , go to Preferences , Account Information , and then in the Email Address field , delete the " @me " address , so that only your cool . Mac is in there .
I assume you are referring to the notice that comes up in Terminal " You 've got mail " Create a file . forward in your home directory . ( that 's a period and the word forward with no space . In it write the address you want the mail forwarded to . This file has to be owned and readable by your userid . Jobs run by cron by default mail their output to the owner of the crontab file . This can be overridden by specifying the option MAILTO=userid@somewhere.com at the top of the file . See man crontab for details . The second only forwards the details of jobs run from that particular crontab . If you have sandboxed services that have individual crontabs on a user basis ( E.g. . You have a database service that runs a consitency check on the database at 2:30 every morning , and runs that service as user mysql , then you have to add the line to mysql 's crontab . General best practice for email that goes to non-real users is to forward it to a role first . E.g. All the machines in your network send their system email to sysadmin@mydomain.com Then on a central server you forward sysadmin 's mail to a real person . This makes it much easier at vacation time to temporarily forward email to your temp sysadmin .
To use this ( or any ) script in a program like Apple Mail , you could create a service in Automator . Launch the Automator program . When it says Choose a type for your document , select Service and click Choose In the top dialog , select Service receives no input in Mail.app ( or , the name of your program , or any application if that 's what you want ) . You will insert one action : From the Utilities group , double-click Run AppleScript . Select the text that says and paste in the script you want to run . In your case , the script you want to paste is Once you have done that , go to the File menu and click Save . Give the service a name you will remember , like " Add Recipients to Group " . Then when you are in Mail , you can select a message or messages and go to the Mail menu in the menu bar , then the Services menu in the Mail menu , and select the service Add Recipients to Group .
It 's possible to have more than 1 email account associated with an Apple ID , without the 2nd address actually being one . So for example while my Apple ID is from a personal domain , say xyz@1234.com, I also have an icloud email address xyz123@me.com that is associated with my Apple ID . If your wide used a mobile me account , maybe as part of a family pack , and you migrated it to icloud , it 's possible that it has gained such a link in some way .
You might be able to use ioreg to determine the cycle count of the battery . A low cycle count indicates that the battery has not been discharged and charged very much . " Cycle Count " shows how many times the battery has been cycled . You can read more about battery cycle counts <URL> . Another idea is to use pmset to log the state of the system 's power . You could , in theory , have that dump to a file to investigate after some time has passed . Take a look at the <URL> . will log the state of system 's power . As the device is unplugged or plugged you 'll see the log update . This could show how frequently a notebook is unplugged and charged . If it remains plugged in for long spans of time , or is often drawing from ' AC Power ' then you 'd know if it 's mobile or not .
I have n't found any actual answer for my question , but instead found a very good alternative . Basically @icloud . com accounts also allow the creation of aliases that can be used in all iOS Mail apps , with one particular advantage : the alias allows changing the name of the recipient as well , something @outlook . com account aliases does not allow . You can create @icloud . com aliases using the web interface options .
Beware of legal issues . You can but you 'll need to jailbreak , use extra hardware ( plug a mic into the headphone jack ) , or use 3rd party SIP software . For example , Google Voice has an iPhone app , and Google Voice supports call recording . Google Voice does announce to both parties that it is recording the call .
Based on the <URL> , the information about original location is stored within DS_Store file . In older version of OS X it was just a plain text and now binary format and it 's undocumented by Apple , however there is a tool created by <URL> which can reads it . Written in perl project provides routines for reading and writing the files generated by the OS X. Using would attempt to dump a store file 's records in a more human-readable format . Example usage : See : <URL> and <URL>
How does an iPhone send iMessages to iPad : Make sure iMessage is set " on " on both devices On your iPhone , go to Contacts and find your friend 's name to check whether or not you have his email address . If not , you need to add his email address . On the iPad , go to settings >> messages >> recieve at >> add email . Put your friend 's email address from step 2 . It will say " verify " . Your friend need to verify by checking his email . There 'll be an email from Apple . Open the email and he 'll be asked to click on the verify link . Click on it and he 'll be directed to Apple 's homepage . Just follow the instructions there . Once your friend has verified his email address , the word " verify " in step 3 disappears . Now you can iMessage him . On your iPhone , go to contacts and choose your friend 's name . Click on " send message " and choose the email address that was just verified . You 're now directed to the message screen . In the " To " field , you 'll see that the email adress is missing " @ " . Ignore it . Make sure that the send button is blue . Now just type your message and send . Hope this works !
Update : I have discussed this with someone who has specifically tried this . I now understand what happens here . The answer is no , with one notable exception . Having looked through Apple 's documentation , I have found conflicting information . First , the <URL> describes going into Device Firmware Upgrade ( DFU ) mode and Recovery mode . It states that from either mode , the device must be restored to factory default settings . However , that is in direct conflict with the link it provides to recovery mode . The <URL> puts you on <URL> . On this page it states that if you choose the Update option , iTunes will try to reinstall iOS without erasing your data . I now know this line to be a simplification . In this scenario , when iTunes reinstalls iOS , it 's only option is to restore the iPhone to factory default settings . If you have logged into your phone but have n't rebooted it , and you have previously synced it via iTunes , you can backup the contents using the same computer . So in this case iTunes will backup the contents , reinstall iOS with a restore to factory default settings , then restore the contents from the backup . Once the iPhone is rebooted , you can only restore to factory default settings . You can restore the contents of a previously made backup , but you can not backup the data from the phone .
For Mac OS X Mountain Lion 10.8.0 : Click on the " Calendars " button on the main window to show the sidebar of calendars . Right mouse click on the calendar you want to ignore alerts from &amp; choose " Get Info " Check ON " Ignore Alerts " &amp; click " OK " Seems as thought you do n't have to globally set this preference , you can now selectively choose which calendars have alerts or not , through iCal .
Scroll to the bottom of the playlist . There is a " Download All " button with the cloud download icon . Tap and wait . Unfortunately , I do n't believe there is a way to scroll to the bottom in one gesture , so if the playlist is long , you 'll have to repeatedly swipe until you reach the bottom .
No , they 're not the same thing . Jailbreaking is a process where the iOS software and device firmware that Apple ships is modified to allow unauthorized/unsigned code to run . Unlocking means that you can use a GSM iPhone with any GSM carrier , not locked to one carrier in exchange for a discount or an exclusive sales agreement . Jailbreaking is the first step needed to unlock a phone . Jailbreaking allows additional root access to the device and allows for other app store mechanisms to load apps and code onto the phone . Some utilities , like redsn0w , will automatically unlock certain models of iPhone in addition to jailbreaking . Apple has sold authorized unlocked phones in several markets worldwide . As of June 2011 , Apple will sell unlocked GSM phones in addition to the locked to Verizon and AT&amp;T models . Some carriers will unlock an iPhone once your contract is up . There is a lot of confusion in the US on this point due to conflicting law of software licenses and Library of Congress exemptions that permit users to modify their phones for the express purpose of unlocking them when not bound by a contract to one carrier .
You can call AppleCare as suggested and merge all your purchases from the old Apple Id to the new Apple Id . <URL> Sorry , but this is not possible at this time via our online tools . You can speak with an AppleCare representative , who can help you consolidate your registered Apple products . They can also help register your iPods , iPhones , or Mac computers under a single Apple ID . Other links that could offer some insight : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I was having the same issue and here 's what just worked for me : Hold command , then drag it off the Favorites bar . The item will turn into a little " poof " white cloud and when you release , it 'll go away ! Finally !
In all cases I have tested , iOS recognizes epub files and will offer to send them directly to iBooks . I have tested this from the email all , dropbox app as well as mobile safari . Other apps like Evernote and AirSharing also are able to receive my epub files , so if you are not able to do this , perhaps it 's an encoding issue or something about how the files are being attached to the emails and not necessarily a problem with iOS .
At the moment you ca n't . My guess is it will be included in the next iOS update though .
Settings Before doing anything : Clear your App Switcher ( Double press your home button and swipe up all the applications you see ) ( Optional ) Go to Settings > Messages and Turn OFF and then back ON your iMessage option . Now open back Message and try to send a message to your friend 's iPhone , but make sure to use the button at the Top-Left corner to find your friend and start the conversation , do n't just open your recent chat with him/her . This should have reset your iMessage settings , so you should be able to send iMessages to your friend now . Restart If the process above did n't solve the issue , you may want to : Clear the App Switcher again ( Optional ) Restart your iPhone , long press the Sleep/Wake button until you see the Apple logo again , then release , OR you can long press until you see a slider which can be used to turn OFF the iPhone , once done that , press again the Sleep/Wake button to turn the iPhone back ON . Try to send a message to your friend I 'm sure you already know the difference between iMessage and normal SMS/MMS , although that , I 'll leave you a link to the <URL> about the difference , have a great day !
end question
start question
Where did folder " merge " or " keep both " go in OS X 10.9 Mavericks ?
OK . I found out myself ... Luckily Apple did not remove the Finder Merge functionality with Mavericks . But sometimes it is not offered to the user . But let me explain : Supose you have a folder named TARGET with a subfolder TARGET/SomeStuff . And you have a SomeStuff folder somewhere else . Now drag this second SomeStuff folder to the TARGET folder ( without any modifier keys pressed ) then the Finder will presented you the following dialog ( Stop and Replace ) : So , no merge here . Now - if you instead press the Alt key while you drop the SomeStuff folder to the TARGET folder there are two possibilities : 1 . ) If the files in the two SomeStuff Folder have completely different ( not overlapping ) contents . In other words : no duplicate filenames . Then finder will give you these options ( Stop , Merge &amp; Replace All ) : So , here you can merge . And the result will be a TARGET/SomeStuff folder with the content of both SomeStuff folders . 2 . ) But here comes what is sometimes confusing ( and actually made me think merging is gone in Mavericks ) : if there exists at least one filename that is contained in both SomeStuff folders , then merging is not possible . Then the finder will offer you these options ( Do n't Replace , Stop , Replace ) : So , no merge possible , here too !
You do n't get invisibility using Apple 's Messages app on OS X. <URL> , so perhaps it 's a limitation of their API and only something you can set using their web app . They get to serve you ads when you are on the web , but not on a client so perhaps that was a factor in deciding to code that function in one place over the other . Apple 's Messages app on OS X will set an invisible status for AIM accounts , but not for Google Talk , so it 's less like a Messages oversight as an account/API design issue from Google .
Automator You can use OS X 's Automator.app to quickly rename batches of images . The Actions you want are : Get Selected Finder Items Rename Finder Items Using this approach you can rename files , change the case , or append/remove specific parts of the original file name . You can create <URL> using Automator to make the whole process a single drag-and-drop . Alternatively you can <URL> to rename any image dropped into a folder . To learn more about using Automator , see Apple 's <URL> .
Your initial guess that it 's Google Contacts is right - if you 've set it up to sync with Google Contacts , it 'll pull down the same contact photos as you have in Google Contacts , and it works both ways ( assign a photo on iPhone , syncs back up to Google Contacts ) . If you 've got a contact photo set in Google + or the like , it 'll pull that photo automatically , so that 's the photo which 'll appear to others .
I presume you are referring to listing a folder using the disclosure triangle in list view : The state of shown/hidden folders in list view of a specific folder is stored in Finder cache , as well as the folder 's hidden . You can reset a folder 's folder disclosure triangle by running the following command inside the folder that you wish to reset :
So - It appears that they did remove this feature in Yosemite .
always is your home folder ( for instance ) . If ~ / . vim exists , that 's where you 'll find it . Unless you 've used vim before , the folder likely will not already exist , so to create the folder , open Terminal.app and type Assuming you downloaded ColorSamplerPack.zip to your Downloads folder you can then proceed with to unpack the content into the folder . A restart of gvim may be required afterwards . On second thought , the same result can be accomplished by just opening Terminal.app and executing
Unless you 've already found it , how about something like <URL> ? It seems to have been published in 2009 and references Leopard in the description , so may also be a little out of date , but from the <URL> seems to have a reasonable amount of information about security and OS X internals . May be a bit left field for what you want though ... ? Or for something newer ( due to be publishe June 2012 ) how about <URL> ?
The volume up/down feedback audio file is called volume.aiff and is located in :
Briefly ; no there is no easy way to update them . ( Assuming that compiling from source is not considered easy ) I would strongly caution against modifying the system installed versions as you 're likely to have your updated versions broken when Apple issues an update that updates them . ( Usually Security Updates and has bitten some users/sysadmins when Perl has been updated ) If you wanted to update them it 's a matter of downloading the source files and installing it over top of the provided versions . As a reasonable alternative I recommend installing your own managed version of PHP and MySQL into or using your packaging software of choice ( MacPorts , Fink or Homebrew ) or prepared installer ( eg . MySQL 's . pkg installer that installs into ) .
The KeePass documentation in <URL> , although not specifically mentioning OS X , describes your issue : Clipboard : On some systems , Mono 's clipboard routines do n't work properly . In this case , install the xsel package . If is installed , KeePass ≥ 2.20 uses this utility for clipboard operations . So should help . ( is available from MacPorts ( <URL> ) . The source is available here : <URL> ) EDIT : But it does n't . I was curious so I compiled on my Mac . It did n't solve the issue with copy/paste ( tested with Portable KeePass 2.20.1 ) , as I feared , I must say . Why ? Because as stated here <URL> is a tool that manipulates the clipboard contents of X11 applications . X11 provides the graphical user interface for Linux and UNIX , but OS X uses Quartz instead , and so does Mono , as I realized ( see <URL> ) . There 's a workaround for copying username and password to clipboard , as explained in this thread <URL> : Ureka ( sic ) . Your 2.19 is on the path to copy paste working on the MAC via Mono ! Your button to copy the username , and your button to copy the password works now !!! The poster above refers to these buttons ( portable KeePass 2.20.1 shown running on Windows ( sorry , no Mac nearby ) ) : For copying the username : For copying the password : EDIT : I 'd like to share how I compiled in case somebody needs it on OS X : Install X11 from <URL> ( this only applies to OS X 10.8 " Mountain Lion " users ) . Symlink header and library files from to and from to ( alternatively you can symlink to and ) : Otherwise you will get lots of errors about files not found or missing symbols . I tried passing the non-standard X11 directories as an option to without success . Download from <URL> and extract , for example , to your Desktop . You need plus libraries . Install Xcode and then install the command line tools from Xcode > Preferences > Downloads > Components . Change directory , configure and compile : You can also install with MacPorts using the command . In my setup it also required the symlinks for the X11 libraries and header files and needed much longer to compile . I 'd also like to share some caveats when using KeePass on a Mac : KeePass 2.18 ( from <URL> ) has trouble with case-sensitive HFS + . is typed ( notice lowercase ' p ' ) in ( so that it silently fails ) . I had to use a USB flash drive formatted with case-insensitive HFS + and run KeePass from there . I had a lot of trouble getting KeePass 2.20.1 to work on OS X 10.8 " Mountain Lion " . It could n't get rid of the error message : I finally found the culprit : The release notes for version 2.20.1 state ( <URL> ) : Changes from 2.20 to 2.20.1 : On Unix-like systems , KeePass now stores most of its temporary files in a private temporary directory ( preferably in ) . According to <URL> : defines the base directory relative to which user-specific non-essential runtime files and other file objects ( such as sockets , named pipes , ... ) should be stored . The directory MUST be owned by the user ... was not set . I set it to a directory I owned and KeePass worked like a charm :
The " Computer Name " screensaver is stored in . Displaying the computer name is just the default text for this screen saver , you can enter other texts in the Screen Saver Preferences .
The databases associated with your mailboxes are probably corrupted and need to be rebuilt . Simply choosing " Rebuild " from the " Mailbox " menu is <URL> , but is unlikely to do the trick . If it does n't , the following steps will fix the problem : Quit Mail . <URL> from the folder by opening the folder in Finder ( ⇧ + ⌘ + G ) and deleting all files whose names that begin with " Envelope Index " . After deleting these files you should " Secure Empty " the Trash to be sure they 're gone . Relaunch Mail and wait . This will take quite some time : many hours if you have a lot of messages . Once Mail is fully launched , search your mailboxes ( ⌥ + ⌘ + F ) for " flagged " messages and wait again . This can also take a surprisingly long time during which it will sometimes appear that nothing is happening , but patience will be rewarded as your flagged messages begin to appear . Depending on how serious and extensive your database corruption is , it 's possible that not all of these steps is needed . You might simply try the last step alone and see if it works . However , the missing flags are likely a sign of a problem that will manifest itself in other ways , so the surest approach is to do all the steps above .
Hopefully this should work regardless of OS version , but it 's been tested on 10.6.8 : Open Automator Choose to create a Folder Action Choose your photo folder as the folder to work on Chooses Utilities - > Run AppleScript and drag it into the panel on the right Paste the code below into the Run AppleScript panel Save the folder action and try it out ! end run Note : The script might have some unnecessary elements in it , but while trying to tweak it it often stopped working . Feel free to try on your own !
The ~ / Library folder still exists , but it is hidden . You can easily unhide it by running the following command in Terminal ( / Applicatiions/Utilities ) : Note that you 'll have to do this again after each 10.7.X update ( credit to <URL> ) . If you want to reveal it on a per-use basis , you can get in by holding down option and clicking on the Finder 's Go menu . Or , you can use Go - > Go to Folder and type in the path . Or , you can open Terminal and type The app Lion Tweaks gives you an easy GUI way to change this setting , as well as other hidden Lion preferences .
The " recording " label usually appears when you press ' q ' key to record a macro . It is not recording what you are typing , it is recording a command sequence to be re-used for later use . See : <URL>
You can find that information in the They will open in TextEdit , but hard to read . So you might need to <URL> for help with Plist readers . you can also see the plist changes in the : Console ( by typing pref in the search window ) While the Console is up to the moment reporting it will only report issues not the successful execution .
When you set up your export settings and clicked ' Next ... ' , a standard save sheet appears prompting you for a location to save the file . Wherever you selected as a save location will be wherever the file is . Once exporting is complete , the notification has a Show button which reveals the location in Finder . If you forgot the location and missed the notification , you can still reveal the location . Select the project in the Library viewer under the event where it is located . Show the Share Inspector using the button on the inspector toolbar . Click the reveal arrow next to the shared media , then select Reveal in Finder .
<URL> for OSX and <URL> for iOS Only 1.2 MB in size . ( Mac version ) The iOS version works on both the iPad and iPhone . Fullscreen Autosave Reading time , word counter sync via Dropbox supports <URL>
There is no provision to re-sign the files that have been downloaded so by policy and by design , purchased items remain under the Apple ID used to purchase the item . This means you ca n't divide up purchases after the fact ( but you can agree to share the password and share the 5 authorized computers ) even if you split up with a partner who shared an account with you . You also ca n't " combine " past purchases - that account and password need to stay around and you can register a new " email " for communications of password resets but that original apple ID remains even long after you 've left AOL or whatever name you originally used to purchase items .
end question
start question
Is there a way to delete only documents/data of an app without deleting the app itself ?
If the application does n't provide a way to delete documents , uninstalling and reinstalling the app is definitively the best option here .
Yes you can use logmein <URL> After installing and setting things up you will just need your browser wherever you are .
Garageband can do this . Open a new ( or existing ) project and add a new " real " track with no effects . On the bottom edge of the window you ´ ll see a LCD-like window which usually displays the current time or measure in the track ; depending on which version of Garageband you ´ re using , you can now either use the up - / down-arrows to switch to the tuner ( tuning fork symbol ) or click on the tuning fork symbol directly to select the tuner . Every sound that is picked up by your Mac ´ s microphone will now be displayed as note ( with off-pitch )
Borrow an old iPhone and <URL> by following the setup directions on iOS 9 or you could use the <URL> to attempt a dry-run on the Android side . That way , you can actually use the new OS for a bit and if it 's unlocked , you could swap SIM cards between the two devices . If you do n't mind the cash outlay , you could also buy a new phone outright and educate yourself on the return policy if you 're mostly sure the change will be for good .
I use Cloud Mate which shows all iCloud documents from all Apps ( including iOS ones ) . Only been using it for a couple of days , but it 's very simple and does exactly what it says it does : <URL>
If you want to measure the speed ( bandwidth ) between your iPad and your PC , take a look at . It is available for computers and there are versions on the App Store for iOS too ( the one I use seems to have gone away , but searching the App Store for " iperf " reveals several possible options ) . You run an iperf server at one end ( eg the PC ) , and a client at the other ( eg the iPad ) . It runs for a configurable amount of time ( I think the default is 1 minute ) , and then tells you how much data it managed to transfer . Compared to eg copying a file , the figures you get this way are a more accurate reflection of the available network speed , because copying a file requires retrieving the data from a hard drive , writing it at the other end , sending acknowledgements , the overhead of the file transfer protocol etc. . . iPerf is simpler than that : it just transfers data as fast as it can .
Yes , you have a choice of three built in methods for clearing the clipboard . AppleScript/Automator are two simple methods for programmatically manipulating the clipboard . Here 's a little script that does what you want . Also , Automator allows the same . You 'll need to define a variable , double click on the name text to set it to null , and then drag in the set clipboard action before running / saving it . The benefit of using automator is that you can assign it as a service and then use system keyboard shortcuts to call it . For AppleScript or one of the nice terminal answers here that use you might want to look at a free tool like <URL> to launch the action from anywhere .
Yes ! I had the same problem . Go to Settings → Music → Sort Albums and change this to By Title .
Apple 's iPhoto application will allow you to get the image size , location , fstop , iso and timestamp of images taken with the phone . The only downside to the app is that it costs $ 4.99 .
Since Mail does not have a predefined filter ( in Smart Mailboxes ) to get the 50 last received messages , I can imagine you could achieve something like this in an AppleScript . The AppleScript should : get every message in Inbox sort the list by date select all but the most recent 50 ones delete selected Then , create a Mail rule that will be triggered whenever a new email arrives ( e.g. you could trigger it on the condition that Recipient contains an " @ " or that Sender is not empty ) , and have the rule execute your AppleScript . To get you started on how to write an AppleScript that processes Mail messages , see the script you can find in :
Yes , start with <URL> which easily <URL> and then move on to <URL> once you have a feeling for what you want to open up past one app at a time as your two year old gets more able to use more than just one game at a time . .
Yes . Omit the " loc : " and just enter the coordinates . 40.748342 , -73.984606 will drop a pin right on the Empire State Building .
No , I 'll link to some of the questions that cover this . The App Store version is sold and licensed differently than the version licensed online . <URL> <URL> <URL>
I found this , and it works : Say you restore your iPhone with a full wipe and restore . Then you choose a previous backup to restore all of your settings and applications . When your iPhone is done restoring to your backup , all your icons are mixed up on the SpringBoard ... what the heck ? You want to get them back do n't you ? Well , I know a trick and I do n't think it 's documented anywhere . Here it goes . ** Important : Before starting these instructions , backup your iPhone . Then go into iTunes preferences and turn on " Disable automatic syncing for iPhones and iPods " This way your backup wo n't get overwritten after your iPhone gets restored . Restore your iPhone and let it restart and activate . Then iTunes will happily ask you if you want to restore from a previous backup ( with all of your settings and Applications ) . Click the backup you want to restore to and let it restore and reboot . ( Here 's where things get messed up . Your iPhone backup actually restored the correct icon positions except none of your apps were installed before the restore was complete , so iTunes has to copy all of your apps back to your iPhone . When it does this , it copys them in alphabetical order , thus messing up the location of all your 3rd party icons ) . Here 's how to fix this without memorizing where all your icons went . Right click ( or Control-click ) on the iPhone icon in iTunes and choose " Restore from Backup " and choose the backup you chose in step 2 again . Let your iPhone restore for a second time and when it reboots , all of your icons will be in their original places . ( This is because iTunes did n't have to install the Apps because they were already there , thus keeping them in their original locations according to the backup ) . Return your iTunes preferences and uncheck " Disable automatic syncing for iPhone and iPod "
If the application does n't provide a way to delete documents , uninstalling and reinstalling the app is definitively the best option here .
As you state , VLC has been pulled from the app store because of incompatibility issues between its GNU license and the AppStore DRM . If you have already bought it ( even at 0 cost ) you can still use it under the same account used to buy it . Because of DRM , apps can not be shared between users , so you can not use an . ipa from other user , just your own . If its your case , VLC is available as a Cydia download for jailbroken devices . Otherwise there are good alternatives for a few bucks . You might wan na check out these : GoodPlayer ( $ 2.99 ) CineXPlayer ( $ 3.99 ) I 've used GoodPlayer and it works as expected , allowing you to play almost anything without reencoding .
You can use Automator . Open Automator . Choose Application from the templates . Add a Ask for Text action . Tick ' Require an Answer ' Add a Create Banner Image from Text action . Tick ' Use text input as image filename ' . Open the actions options options . Tick ' Show this action when workflow runs ' Add a Lopp Action . Control + click on the Loop Actions Title bar and select ' ignore input ' From the Loop Actions 's drop down menus , select ' Ask to Continue ' and Use the ' current results as input ' Save and run . You will then be prompted to enter your text . Then after you ok that you will be prompted to Choose you font . Use the font size to determine the image size . example 64 in Helvetica Bold gives me about 46x77 The same font but at size 300 gives me 177x360 . In each case I am only using 1 character . If you want to do it from ' Selection ' Open Automator . Choose Services from the templates . Set the ' Sevices Receives input ' to : rich text * and in * any application Add a Create Banner Image from Text action . Tick ' Use text input as image filename ' . Set the Text Style drop down menu to : ' Use Style of Rich Text input ' . Optionally you can add a ' Reveal in Finder ' Action The Size is set by what ever the original fonts are . To use the Service . You can select some text , and control click to get a contextual menu . Listed is the services sub menu . Under this you should find your new service that will run on the selected text .
It sounds as though your iPhone and/or iTunes are n't synced to each other . Unfortunately , for you to manage the apps on the iPhone from iTunes , the iPhone needs to be synced to iTunes . So you 'll have to go through this procedure at least once , and replace what 's on the iPhone w / what 's in iTunes . No way around that , but thankfully , any apps you 've purchased are free to you to download again , so if there are any that are missing in iTunes , just download them again . But yes , if any of the apps are n't in iTunes , and you 've got data stored in those apps , that data will be lost .
There is no official way to do so , but if you 've jailbroken your iPad , you can use <URL> . It 's a Cydia Tweak and I can highly recommend it . It does exactly what you want .
There 's no official way to achieve this , however you can try <URL> in a certain order until they match the colour you want .
end question
start question
How to view progress when encrypting a disk ?
Open up the Terminal and enter the command : You will see an output listing at least one Logical Volume Group , with a Logical Volume Family and Logical Volume nested below . There is be a item in the Volume Family entry that will tell you if it 's converting to an encrypted volume or not , and for a progress indicator , look under the Logical Volume entry for and entries , to see how many GB have been converted so far . During encryption : Encryption completed : The actual Terminal output is nested and longer . Here , only the most important information is listed . Apparently decrypting an external disk is very slow ( or even paused ) if you use a laptop which is running on batteries . So always make sure to plug it into mains power when performing this operation .
Sure - all macs support network boot . You might look at Deploy Studio for help in setting up a server that can network boot images stored on the remote machine . Borrowing a USB drive or another mac in target mode with a working DVD might be faster - but with a little set up - network booting is very doable .
If you want to find out how much space an Application and it 's associated files are taking up ( not just the . app bundle ) , <URL> works great for that . As you can see in this screenshot for Chrome , it shows the application itself , as well as preferences , caches , etc. all nicely totaled up .
Font Book does in fact have a view that displays all glyphs provided by a font -- just select Preview - Repertoire on the menu bar : <URL> You can also get a preview of a font using Quick Look : select a font file ( from / Library/Fonts ) and press space .
Open Applications - > Utilities - > Terminal Enter the following command : Type root password Quit Terminal
Everything written to the volume under Filevault 2 is encrypted live and in-stream by the kernel / device drivers . As long as there is n't a bug where data leaks to outside the core storage wrapper , you do n't need to worry about someone analyzing the contents of your RAM by snooping the locked drive .
This was driving me crazy as well . Go to System Preferences - > Mission Control and make sure that ' Displays have separate Spaces ' is checked . You 'll have to log out and log back in for the change to take affect . That fixed it for me .
When you insert a USB drive it automatically gets mounted . You can see the name of the device using the mount command : Making the simplifying assumption that you only have one usb drive mounted at a time and it is always formatted with windows , you can then rename the drive like this : now when you look at the mount output , the name is changed : You may need to adjust the search parameters based on different assumptions , but this is the general idea .
I had the same problem and found a great article that helped me decrypt the keychain from my iOS 9 backup : <URL> . Here are the steps for El Capitan : Install pip : Install m2crypto ( see answer to <URL> ) First , install openssl and swig with Homebrew : Then install m2crypto using pip : Install some more Python packages : Download the <URL> Extract your backup : And finally , decrypt your keychain :
Here 's a few ways to check . The last one only works in Lion . The third one is probably the easiest if you 're comfortable using Terminal . Lock All Keychains A quick way to check is to open Keychain Access ( found in / Applications/Utilities / ) , choose File > Lock All Keychains , then try to mount the disk image . If it 's encrypted , you should get a message like diskimages-helper wants to use the " login " keychain and be prompted for the keychain password ( same as your OS X login password ) . If it 's not encrypted , it will simply mount . Search login Keychain Instead of locking all keychains , you could instead search for your disk image in the login keychain : Select the login keychain , then type the name of the . sparseimage file in the search field . However , if the . sparseimage name has been changed since it was created , it wo n't show up in the login keychain with the new name . If you do n't find your disk image you can try the Lock All Keychains method above or the Terminal method below to be certain . Terminal Command You can enter the following command to check if the disk image is encrypted : Replace the with the path to the disk image . If the disk image is encrypted , the command will return something like : If it 's not encrypted , it wo n't show anything at all . Use Disk Utility in Lion New in Lion , Disk Utility now shows if a disk image is encrypted . Unmount the disk image if it 's mounted . Open Disk Utility and drag the . sparseimage file to the device list on the left side of the Disk Utility window . Select the . sparseimage in the device list and look at the information area at the bottom of the window . If the disk is encrypted , then that will be indicated under " Disk Write Status " .
It ca n't hurt to repair permissions on your actual disk , but it is quite unnecessary , because " Macintosh HD " contains the actual operating system , so the stuff that you want to repair .
This is for sure an iPad Air 2 , correct ? It should have TouchID ( a fingerprint sensor ) on the front . To verify the model , go to the settings app , General , About : Model MH2P2LL/A is an iPad Air 2 Other ways to identify your iPad are at <URL>
<URL> is not supported on Macbook Air that lack a true Thunderbolt port . The <URL> is purely a video out port , and can not be used for data transfer , despite the identical connector . The only supported option for transferring data between two Macbook Air , using a wired connection , using Migration Assistant , is through ethernet . Since both models of the Macbook Air do not have an ethernet port , you will need to purchase the <URL> for the older model Macbook Air which does not have a Thunderbolt port , and an <URL> for the newer model which supports Thunderbolt . If you do not want to purchase the adapters , you could migrate the data off the Air using file sharing or have the Mac opened by a service technician to remove the storage and assist with a converter or another Air to house the drive while it 's being accessed . By deleting all files that are non-essential you can speed up the time of transfer , but the USB to ethernet adapter is 100MB speed and likely the fastest you could transfer files . Wireless network would be slower in almost all cases than a direct connection and neither would be as fast as a target mode Firewire or Thunderbolt transfer sadly .
Zeroing out a brand new disk is , for the average user , a waste of your time . Writing all those zeros to every single block on the disk is time consuming ( and yes , your zero-out time seems to be in the ball park even for USB 3 ) and has no real benefit . The disk , if new , and freshly HFS + formatted is ready to go without any additional work . Zeroing out can help the security-paranoid erase latent data from the platters ( though , zeroing is n't sufficient to meet US Government regulations for sanitizing media see <URL> for more details ) . And it can help find and mark bad sectors before you start relying on the media for day to day use . I 'll contend that , except for ultra rare cases where new media is heavily damaged on arrival , that modern methods for finding and marking bad sectors in situ are good enough to make pre-finding them before serious use unnecessary in this day and age .
In general , you should hold the key ( s ) down until they take effect . For single-user and verbose modes , that means hold them until you see text start to appear . For the others , it 's generally ok to let go once you see the Apple in the middle of the screen ( the Apple is drawn by the booter , which loads after the firmware has detected startup options ) . If you have FileVault 2 ( full volume encryption ) set up , things are a little more complicated , since some key combinations ( mainly single-user , verbose , and safe boot ) do n't take effect until after you 've authenticated to unlock the startup volume . It currently seems to do a good job of detecting the key combos before the authentication screen , then having them take effect after you " log in " . But if that 's not working for you , try holding them down as you press return on the FV2 authentication screen , and keep holding them until you see them take effect .
You can change the library location from the window on the tab . and select the tab . At the top where it says click the button : In the Finder window that opens , move the to the place where you 'd rather it exist . This can take some time if it 's a large library . Once it 's moved , double click on it in Finder and your Photos app will update and point to the new location .
Switch to Fullscreen mode , there you have a black background color . And then your background is black :
According to the man page , hibernatemode = 3 ( binary 0011 ) by default on supported portables . The system will store a copy of memory to persistent storage ( the disk ) , and will power memory during sleep . The system will wake from memory , unless a power loss forces it to restore from disk image . But then also standby causes kernel power management to automatically hibernate a machine after it has slept for a specified time period . This saves power while asleep . This setting defaults to ON for supported hardware . The setting standby will be visible in pmset - g if the feature is supported on this machine . standby only works if hibernation is turned on to hibernatemode 3 or 25 . ( which it is by default on supported portables ) standbydelay specifies the delay , in seconds , before writing the hibernation image to disk and powering off memory for Standby . On my machine , with settings that I believe are default , when I type I get the result of 4200 , meaning that after 70 minutes of sleep , the machine cuts power to the memory and restores from the memory image saved to the hard drive . If your settings do not look like this , the command just might be your new friend .
I decided that the best way to identify the file being downloaded was to write a small script that fetched the files held open by the App Store program . I set variable to the PID of by extracting it from the command using and Then I use to list open files by the PID of and I print out the size of the files and the files path . If you do this several times in succession you can see the file ( s ) that 's growing and make a good guess by its size that it is the OS download .
Double tap on the photo to make it full screen . Alternatively , you can see toward the end of the commercial , a simple swipe to the left or the right brings up subsequent photos full screen without the overlay of controls on the top or bottom .
end question
start question
Is the font in Messages.app changed in iOS5 ?
Same font , but Apple added a very subtle text-shadow and tweaked the bubble reflection . That 's the difference . iOS 4 iOS 5
Yes it is . I use it for my firewall needs . A great way to test if it still exists , is to just run it . Open Terminal.app and enter the following command : It should report the following ( rules may vary ) : Additionally , Apple will not remove it as it is actually the backend for the default Application Firewall found in System Preferences , at least not for some time . You can read up more on ipfw in OS X using <URL> ( or simply type in Terminal.app ) . As for pf ( the actual implementation of OS X is ) , it is a much more object orientated program that can control network access translation and packet filter ( while requires external components to handle them ) . It is born from OpenBSD ( as opposed to FreeBSD ) and has been around for quite a while as well . It 's power comes from being able to accomplish more internally , but also optimize long rulesets ( that sometimes bogs down ) . They are both , however , excellent firewalls and can coexist quite happily . <URL> .
Yes , if they activated " Keychain " using another device you should change your passwords . Keep in mind that activating " Keychain " in the iCloud preferences should require you to confirm the device using another device . Please check to see how your account 's authentication is currently set up ( e.g. log out of your Apple ID on your Mac ( iCloud ) , turn on iCloud using your Apple ID and try to activate " Keychain " . Now your Mac should prompt you to activate Keychain using on of your other devices .
To add a rule in Mail , open Mail preferences ( Mail > Preferences ... or ⌘ + , ) and go to the Rules pane . The Apply Rules function applies to all rules whose " Active " checkbox is ticked .
No , the iPhone 4S has an 8mp camera . The prior iPhone 4 had a 5mp camera though . But , yes , the older iPad had a much worse camera - less than 1mp . This would seem to show it 's from the iPhone 4 : <URL> Megapixels are n't everything - but the new iPad certainly has the best camera in an iPad so far . The front facing camera is n't that great though , even with the rear one hugely improved .
There is no " forward delete " key ( as it 's often called ) on the iPhone . The same is true on the Mac . On the Mac you can hold down the Fn ( Function ) key and press the Delete key to get forward deletion , but there 's nothing on the iPhone .
You ca n't upgrade a beta device to the final GM release . You need to restore the device with final public iOS 5 release .
Pressandhold.app should be in exactly the same place in Yosemite that it was in Mavericks . I just checked on both my Macs that I upgraded to Yosemite . exists exactly where it should . And to try to confirm whether this is a holdover from Mavericks ( since both my Macs were upgraded from Mavericks to Yosemite ) I checked the Info.plist with the PressAndHold.app bundle . It lists " 10.10 " as the LSMinimumSystemVersion and " macosx10 .10 internal " as the DTSDKName both of which indicate Yosemite . So please check that folder on your Mac again . I 'd be very surprised if that folder was empty .
Inside the Eclipse.app is a setting for the font size . To make the fonts globally larger edit Eclipse.app " Contents " MacOS " eclipse.ini and remove the line from the file . Save the file and restart Eclipse .
The keys h and j should respectively decrease and increase the delay .
This is a very wide reaching question , but to answer the central theme , the rough equivalent of explorer.exe on Windows is the application . Finder is the only application you can not remove from your dock , mainly because it is the finder that runs the dock etc , much like explorer.exe runs the taskbars etc in Windows ( I think I got that right for windows ) You can kill the finder , and it will automatically re-spawn . The equivalent of Task Manager would be as a graphical app , and of course you have a fully featured Unix command line environment in , which allows you to interact with processes using all sorts of commands , for example : ( lists active processes ) ( send interupt request 9 , or terminate with extreme prejudice to the process number 243 ) There is no Registry in OS X , which is nice because that was a horrible idea ( in my opinion ) , but settings and preferences etc are commonly stored in files that reside in either the system or an individual users folder , which I suppose could be analogous to the windows \ system or user \ application data folders in Windows .
It is possible . Just hold down the Command ⌘ button and drag the Picture in Picture window anywhere you desire .
<URL> is the app you are looking for . It has activation/deactivation , web preview mode , glyph overviews , collections etc. .
The Debug menu mostly gives access to functions in relation to hidden partitions ( e.g. the system-restore-partition in Lion ) . see <URL> Most likely the Debug menu is mainly for Apple internal use ( their techs dealing with stuff probably found these functions useful ) so it 's hidden by default .
Effectively yes - you should not expect to be able to use a Verizon iPad on an AT&amp;T account or the other way around . The next two paragraphs only apply to the US iPads . Internationally ( outside the US ) , the micro SIM slot is unlocked , so you will be able to insert a non-AT &amp; T/non-VZW card in either and have service without needing to jailbreak the device . See : <URL> - the section on selecting a carrier and ready to take on the world .
No , the PIN Code does n't prevent you from using the camera shortcut . Just make sure to double-press the home button to show the camera shortcut . Note : you ca n't access your old photos as long as the iPhone is locked .
No changes in file bytesize at least . The first GM seed for 10.7.2 was initially marginally different to the final version in some way and was updated , but the iOS 5 release is identical . No need to change anything . If you were not already on the GM/release version , it would have complained by today and deactivated your phone ...
Starting in Lion , Apple added a command to Font Book . Open Font Book and choose :
Add a rule like this to : The is required because a div has an inline style attribute that overrides the fonts in .
I had this problem with Leopard and it continues in Lion . The only solution that works for me is to reboot . Changing the settings in system preferences does not work on my machine .
end question
start question
Move desktop item to system tray ( dock ) ?
In OS X to " properly " install an application , just take the . app file a drag in into your applications folder using the Finder ( due to localization the Application folder in the Screenshot is named Program ... , but the icon is the same ) When you then launch the application it will appear in the dock ( the " tray of icons " ) . Right click the icon and and choose " Options " - > " Keep in dock " and it will stay there for quick launching . You can also move it around in the dock if you want to have it in another spot .
First off he 's wrong on all levels . The <URL> is $ 29 , the <URL> is $ 500 . A standard <URL> is $ 700 base . <URL> is $ 1000 base . Second , the distributions are pretty much identical . The difference is that the Server Version ships the server applications , tools , and processes . Postfix , Dovecot , Jabberd2 , OpenLDAP , the entirety of the / Applications/Server directory , and some of the things in / Applications/Utilites like XSan management and the RAID Utility . If he 's looking to do development for iOS , getting the server version makes no sense . If he 's looking to do development for Web Services , it 's still easier and cheaper to run it on the Desktop version . If he 's looking to run a server , trivially , for mail services , chat and calendaring services , MORE than just web services ( web services are trivially easy on the Desktop Version ) , then he should get a MacMini Server . Use a Server for a Server for the features it provides , otherwise , use a standard version . [ edit ] We have two versions of XServes , and two Mac Mini Servers ( classic style body ) , I 'd be glad to answer any additional questions you or your friend has .
Although there is some very tiny overhead tracking the views of 4 or 9 windows - and your graphic card may be stretched to render more than X items at once - so it feels slower and renders slower animating the in/out of the spaces . As far as the apps and the system - each window that is running simply gets coordinates . If it 's marked on screen 1 and offset X and Y or no screen and X and Y - the system does no extra work . Each window must be tracked and only windows that are somehow visible get refreshed . Spaces adds no extra work or saves any work as far as the application is concerned . If you tend to open more apps due to spaces organizing them - that will slow the machine down - but it 's not inherent that spaces makes anything on the system or app level slower other than an added graphics drain to animate the changes . When you are not switching - it 's probably faster since fewer windows have to draw into active viewports if you have less " on screen " at one point in time .
You can find that information in the They will open in TextEdit , but hard to read . So you might need to <URL> for help with Plist readers . you can also see the plist changes in the : Console ( by typing pref in the search window ) While the Console is up to the moment reporting it will only report issues not the successful execution .
The MS RDC has a preference menu so that you can customize the shortcuts .
You can use a shell script like this : skips a file when a file with the same name exists in the target .
May be able just create a simlink to the / User directory . To do this , open up Terminal and enter : You 'll want to move your original Users folder out of the way ( rename it or move it or whatever ) . * Where [ SeperateDrivePath ] is the path to your volume just underneath the cloned / Users folder . Probably something like / Volumes/Some Hard Drive Name / . In this case , your clones / Users should exist at/Volumes/Some Hard Drive Name/Users .
Actually I use RDP from a Mac all the time to Windows servers . The right-click can be simulated with a two finger tap on a track pad . The same behaviour works from a magic mouse and magic track pad .
Yes , you can easily go back to a previous version of os x if you have correctly saved that version using time machine . You 'll need to : connect the time machine to your mac Restart your mac and hold Command + R After the mac boots go to OS X Utilities and select Restore from a Time Machine Backup then hit next or continue A screen will show Select a backup source select your time machine bacup You will have next a screen with OS X Version and Backup Date and Time , If you want to go back to Yosemite select 10.10.X ( Mavericks is 10.9 . X )
Yes it can use iCloud back to my Mac to locate remote Macs behind a NAT router . Also , if your network allows inbound network connections then that also would work over the Internet . And no , ARD is not a service where a client runs on each Mac to tunnel out of more arbitrary network connections as Team Viewer , Citrix/GoToMeeting and other solutions that are designed to have the computer that is " to be controlled " initiate contact with the administrator . For example , setting up the clients over Bonjour will not work if you then try to access the clients over the Internet . Select the scanner . Select the Network Address scanner type , and enter the public/BTMM IP address of the computer . Yes , the client computer will need a " real Internet IP address " for this method to work , or the Back to my Mac address if enabled . To find the Back to my Mac address , make sure that iCloud and Back to my Mac is enabled , then run the following command : The final line shows the account number . Use the following syntax for determining the address : You can find the computer name in System Preferences & rarr ; Sharing .
The Dock process on OS X is responsible for more than just the actual Dock on your screen . It does a bunch of background stuff , including Dashboard . Most notably , the Finder wo n't function properly if the Dock process is n't running , so turning it off completely is pretty much a no-go without breaking OS X in the process . The best I can suggest is keeping the dock hidden , and make the size as small as possible so you 're less likely to trigger it . You can also position it where it 's least likely to get in the way - as you probably know , you can put it on the left , right or bottom of your screen . But you can also pin it to a particular corner , just use the command . Type that command in Terminal ( replace with to change which corner it goes in , or to go back to the default ) , then to restart the Dock and apply the change .
You can move your wallpapers into and have them in single location . This should n't affect the system because I have the wallpapers since Leopard and each OS update only include more wallpapers . Go ahead and include yours in there . Make sure you make a backup of just in case you want to revert them back to default state .
The only application I 've found that supports that on 10.8 is <URL> . It does n't create new spaces though . <URL> stopped working in 10.7
There 's no default , but you could probably use AppleScript to accomplish this . Hmm ... EDIT : Make an AppleScript to run this shell script :
In OS X to " properly " install an application , just take the . app file a drag in into your applications folder using the Finder ( due to localization the Application folder in the Screenshot is named Program ... , but the icon is the same ) When you then launch the application it will appear in the dock ( the " tray of icons " ) . Right click the icon and and choose " Options " - > " Keep in dock " and it will stay there for quick launching . You can also move it around in the dock if you want to have it in another spot .
Try adding in front of your email address . I 'm not familiar with Windows 8 , but with previous versions this directs Windows to perform authentication on the local system , rather than on the domain in which it resides . If this does n't work , try also , where is the name of the computer you are trying to log into .
Backup keychain before trying anything . Listing root certificates : Just look in a dump for a names or SHA-1 hash values of certificates that you want to get rid of and write them down . Now you can delete that root certificates using command . Usage : delete-certificate [ - c name ] [ - Z hash ] [ - t ] [ keychain ... ] string found in its common name , or by its SHA-1 hash . If no keychains are specified to search , the default search list is used . For example you can delete chinese root certificates using this command :
I answered a similar question <URL> . You can summon the Dock on a different display by dragging the cursor to the bottom of it 's display , and then continuing the dragging down motion for a second or so . Is it possible that this is occurring when you inadvertently perform that action ?
In the Finder 's preferences , there is an option at the bottom of the General pane for " Spring-loaded folders and windows " that seems to control this . You can adjust the delay using the slider there , and also ( as it notes ) press the spacebar when dragging an item to invoke Exposé immediately . It 's not a hidden preference ( in the sense that you need to get at it ) so much as a preference in a somewhat unexpected place . ;)
Options provided by OSX Using your mouse , click and hold the window you want to move to another Space . a ) While still holding your mouse button down , use your Spaces keyboard shortcut to move to the desired Space . ( default : ctrl + & #x 2190 ; / & #x 2192 ;) b ) Drag the window to the edge of the screen . Wait a second or two and the window will be dragged into the next space . You can change the delay before the OS switches spaces using ... ( here 2 seconds ) Third-party solutions <URL> ( unlimited free trial available ) Your question has been asked before on <URL> .
end question
start question
Will upgrading to 4GB RAM on a white MacBook work ?
All white Macbooks can certainly be upgraded to 4 and - in some cases - 6GB of RAM . Depending upon your model , you should check <URL> and go from there . I believe other vendors ( Crucial , Newegg , etc. ) will have similar pages with similar info ( and similar prices ) . I 've brought different memory upgrades from OWC and never had a single failure so far . I have an old Macbook 4.1 White Core 2 Duo 2.4 and can go up to 6GB . So best thing to do is check your exact Macbook model and see what they offer .
There 's no benefit in going with faster RAM because the speed is limited by what your motherboard supports ( the <URL> has a 1066 Mhz frontside bus . ) In theory the faster RAM should be able to work at the lower speeds and should be safe to install , however macs do tend to be fussy when it comes to RAM so I would recommend sticking to the RAM recommended in the system specs . Edit : More often than not your mac will accept higher speed RAM . However it can cause problems ; <URL> from the Apple Support Forums . You can find similar stories all over Apple forums . This is why I advocate sticking as closely to the specs as possible . As to the advantage of possibly installing the RAM in a future computer , in 2 years you 'll probably be able to get twice the RAM for the price ( and be wanting to install twice the amount too . ) Lastly , if you compare the 2 chips you linked you 'll notice that the 1333 memory has a <URL> of 9 , while the 1066 has a lower ( better ) latency of 7 . So you 're trading an imaginary upside for a real downside .
To answer the question , you 'll need to understand how Apple 's push notification service works . Every application that wants to use push notifications must register with the Apple Push Notification Service ( APNS ) . Typically , this is done right after installation . iOS asks the user if the app is allowed to receive push notifications . If the user agrees , his iPhone talks to the APNS and requests a token that can identify the combination of application and device . This token is then handed to the service provider ( i.e. the developer of the application ) . If the provider wants to send a push notification , it sends this token along with the payload to the APNS , which then delivers the message . So you can imagine the token as some kind of address . That is , the provider has to include the token in every push message request . But how is the token generated ? According to Apple 's <URL> , the registration mentioned above works as follows : The device sends its unique device token ( this is another one ! ) to the APNS and requests the mentioned from the APNS . This depends amongst others on the device ID and the app ID and is generated using cryptographic functions , so it can not be forged . Now here 's the point : The unique token iOS needs to register applications and hence to allow push notifications is generated during the activation process in iTunes . The unique token also uses cryptography and can only be obtained from Apple during this activation process . Jailbroken and hacktivated iOS devices never perform the official activation , so they miss the token . Hence , push notifications can not work ( at least if Apple did not make a major mistake in the implementation ) .
Short answer : 16GB should be fine for photos . Long Answer : Your question is hard to answer with any accuracy as photos come in a variety of sizes depending on resolution , subject matter etc. . For example , a photo taken on your 3GS iphone will be smaller than one taken on your 4GS iphone , which will also be smaller than one taken on your nikon DSLR digital camera . And as you could also reduce the image size based on how you want the photos to appear on your ipad , it becomes a bit more complicated to answer . However , some math might give you a better idea at least . 1GB = 1024 MB so 16GB is 16384MB . Assuming you lose say 4GB for the in built apps and skype etc. we could say you might be left with 12GB or 12288MB . Let 's assume your mother is n't a professional photographer with a 30 megapixel dslr camera , but for the sake of being conservative we 'll say all of her photos are taken on a hi definition camera , like the iPhone 4s . Depending on a variety of factors the photo size will range from about 1.5 mb to 3mb at full size ( bearing in mind these are still HUGE photos at full res . ) If we say 2.25 is an average photo size , you 're still left with roughly 5,500 photos on your spare 12GB of space . Bearing in mind this is still pretty conservative the answer is that your mum can store literally thousands of photos in her 16GB iPad . If you were n't using a really hi def camera like the 4s iPhone , your photo sizes could be as small as 100 or 200 kb 's each and the number is more like 50,000 photos . Hope that 's helped .
From a software standpoint , it 's perfectly fine to leave your Mac on continuously . It can even be considered recommended , since Mac OS X has a number of optimization scripts that run on a daily , weekly , monthly basis , but can only do so if the computer is on . From a hardware standpoint , it depends on your model . If you have an older ( pre-2008 ) MacBook with a removable battery , leaving it on and plugged in continuously will kill the battery quick . In that case , you should remove the battery from the machine , only putting it back in occasionally , charging it to around 60 % , to keep it in good working order . The new MacBooks with non-removable batteries are designed to be able to be left plugged in constantly . The battery has circuitry to optimize the charge cycles so that the life of the battery is not adversely degraded over time ( more than just normal use causes ) .
According to <URL> The iPad Smart Cover is compatible with iPad 2 or later . Also at <URL> So , the answer , based what Apple has said , is yes , the original Smart Cover will fit both the iPad 2 and the iPad 3 . There are also <URL> <URL> linked in the product page that say that the cover will fit . Edit 9/1/12 : I did mean to update this when I found the link , but I lost it for a time and recently found it again . According to <URL> , some people did ( and presumably still are ) have some trouble with the magnets on the iPad 3 . According to <URL> , Apple changed the polarity of the magnets sometime in 2011 , because " some iPad 2 customers were having issues with their iPads entering sleep mode when they flipped Apple 's Smart Cover around flat behind their iPad 2 " . Marc also reports that " Apple is replacing older Apple Smart Covers at Apple Stores for customers who ask . "
According to <URL> the 85W power adapter is the right one . However , there seem to be issue with " T " style ( the old ) vs. " L " style ( the new ) : see <URL> . It seems that for some people , a workaround does the trick : Turn off your computer , flip over the laptop and remove the battery , hold down the circlular button on the battery for 10 seconds , the green light should go out . Re-install the battery and turn your computer on . Your new charger should work fine . If that does n't work , you need to call Apple support to arrange for your power adapter to be replaced with a " T " style adapter : Apple is aware of the issue with the pins being at a different depth in the new chargers with the " L " shaped connection . After having two new ones not work , I contacted tech support . They sent a new version of the old charger with the square mag safe connector . It works fine . Edit : Apparently the <URL> should fix the " L " style power adapter issue on older MacBooks .
edit : See this as the behaviour has changed : <URL> There are two groups of people . Those who wish to have dual displays and have closing the lid go into sleep and people who wish to disable the monitor display , close the lid and use the external monitor as if you had ' docked ' with it . Previously , if you wished to switch from the macbook to an external monitor entirely then you had to perform the following to put the laptop into clamshell mode : Make sure the computer is plugged in to an outlet using the AC power adapter . Connect a USB keyboard and mouse to your computer . With the computer turned on connect the Apple portable ( using the appropriate Apple adapter if necessary ) to the appropriate port on the external display or projector and turn the display or projector on . Once your computer 's Desktop appears on the external display , close the computer 's lid . Once the lid is closed , wake the computer up by either clicking your mouse button or by pressing a key on your external keyboard . source : <URL> So to put the machine in clamshell mode required you to put it to sleep and wake it back up again . As far as user experience goes , that is somewhat jarring . As you have the other options to put the machine to sleep , it seems very likely that this change will remain . Right now , there is no way to alter this behaviour .
For what it 's worth , iTunes is probably exactly the most bloated and slow software that Apple includes on a Mac , as it 's pretty much the only built in app that is n't 64 bit , and until very recently it was n't even using Cocoa but Carbon APIs which Apple have been telling people not to use for years now . Having said that , the largest bottleneck is the speed of the USB transfer along with the ability of the iphone to process the update and write to its flash memory and validate it etc , so really I would n't expect to see a massive difference .
As far as I can tell , Final Cut Studio 2 will run on Lion , but will not install on Lion . Apparently , the installer program requires Rosetta , but the software itself does not . So yes , it should work , if it never needs reinstallation , but if it does , you 're stuck . Proceed with caution . Sources : <URL> personal experimentation
Yes , most external webcams will work fine with a MacBook Pro with a built-in camera . Just check the box for the camera before you purchase to ensure it 's compatible . Some webcams may come with bundled software which only works on Windows which is why you should check before you buy in case the software features are important to you .
By now it is possible to down-grade your baseband - at least for the iPhone 3G and 3GS ( unfortunately not 4/S ) - from the iPad 's 06.15 to 05.13.04 ( un-lockable ) thanks to the great work of the iPhone Dev Team : The iPhone Dev Team is happy to announce a baseband downgrade option in redsn0w for those who are using the iPad 's 06.15 baseband on the iPhone3G or iPhone3GS . Typically you 'd have the 06.15 baseband if you unlock with ultrasn0w but updated your iPhone baseband past 05.13.04 . With this new capability , you can now downgrade specifically from 06.15 to 05.13.04 ( even if you never had 05.13.04 on that device before ) . This gives you the best of both worlds : ultrasn0w compatibility and a normal iPhone baseband with full GPS and the ability to use stock IPSWs again . See <URL> on their blog .
Many have tried to do some benchmarking see e.g. . <URL> <URL> <URL> and looks like differences are small . One remarkable exception is FileVault 2 <URL> In my ( not very extensive ) experience with Lion I noted no difference ( but Lion is definitely more buggy and less dependable than Snow Leopard )
Even if LTE does n't work where you are traveling , the <URL> will work on the following 2G/3G/4G network frequencies . UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1700/2100 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 7 , 8 , 13 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 , 25 , 26 , 28 , 29 ) Your phone is unlocked , so any carrier 's SIM card will work and you can connect to WiFi to download the latest carrier settings that will properly configure the radio for all deployed cell towers and frequencies that the handset can communicate with . So , your question basically boils down to picking a price point and picking a specific carrier with coverage where you actually will be traveling . The good news is you can get a cheap SIM or two and then pick the one that works best to reload data and minutes once you know more about the conditions on the ground when you arrive . My experience is the specifications are very conservative and you end up getting better/faster/more LTE coverage than is advertised as every carrier that can support iPhones gets more revenue from travelers even if the handsets in that country are sold primarily the device that speaks all the frequencies of the A1549 as well as it 's own . I would love to be in on the marketing and engineering talks that led up to choosing models , but can only guess being on the outside of Apple .
I 'm not sure it 's the same effect you 're looking for , but to apply different borders in Pages I followed these steps : Place the picture where you want it in your document Open the by holding CMD+I Go to the tab : Go to the menu and choose from the drop-down menu . Now you can choose a picture frame and alter its appearance by using the slider .
Use Boot Camp 6.0 , it will let you use Bluetooth on the MacBook 2015 .
The limitation imposed is based on the chipsets used on the computers motherboard . For example , the noted Apple maximums you mentioned for the MacBook Pro and the Mac Pro , are smaller than the maximums that those machines can address in practice . The MacBook Pro tested maximum is 16 GB according to <URL> . And as for the Mac Pro its maximum is 128 GB according to <URL> . As noted on Intel 's Specs , the CPU supports a different maximum than the chipset on the motherboard does . The <URL> supports up to 288 GB . And as for the <URL> it supports up to 32 GB . So these limitations come from engineering decisions made by Apple based on what kinds of chipsets are selected to be installed on the motherboard and what those chips support is what enfoces the maximum amount of RAM that a particular Mac can address at or below what the CPU can actually address . As for why Apple under rates their maximum numbers for RAM on some Macs , thats for Apple to know and for us to wonder . However , admittedly it is a nice practice to <URL> for whatever reason Apple has . Although , the Mac Pro supports more RAM than Mac OS X can address , according to OWC 's testing on Mac Pros , <URL> , but other 64-bit operating system can get to the full 128GB .
I make no guarantees here . Probably no harm will come to the MBA . The power is buffered through the transformer in the power adapter . You might burn out your power adapter if you vary ( dim ) the voltage while it is in operation . I would also strongly suggest not plugging in the power supply to the adapter until you have adjusted the adapter to full power .
If you are using something like the <URL> drive from MCE Tech , you an put either drive in the caddy . I prefer to make a single change at a time , so when I did this I put the new drive in the caddy and left the old working boot drive alone . As for installing from a USB thumb drive ( I assume this is what you meant since you were n't clear ) , you should n't have to . You can download the Mountain Lion installer and run the app . During the install process you can choose what drive to install the OS on , simple choose the newly installed and formatted SSD . Once you have both OS installed , the system will remember the last drive that was selected in the Startup Disk preferences and store that choice in NVRAM so that it will continue to start from the preferred drive . You can hold the option key at boot to prevent this choice and pick from all bootable drives when you want to switch things on a specific boot . Most people find that having two OS internally is confusing . Spotlight will try to find the correct version of Safari if you do n't keep them both updated , but sometimes you end up running the wrong version of an app . This is confusing at best , and troublesome most of the time and can cause data issues when the wrong version of an app opens data it did n't expect from a newer version of iPhoto for instance .
When I upgraded from 3 to 4 , after I setup the iPhone 4 to sync with my computer , I took the iPhone 3 and used the reset-erase function on the iPhone and then when I connected it to my iTunes , I gave it a new name ( so I could setup different sync options ) . I use it as an extra ipod-like device for the kids to play with or watch movies on when we are traveling . Note : the iPhone 4 has a different sized SIM card than the iPhone 3 so you wo n't be just swapping them . I had to go to the AT&amp;T store to affect the move from my iPhone 3 to iPhone 4 . The iPhone 3 just has an inactive SIM card in it . I did n't have to Jailbreak it to keep using it . And you can still use it with XCode Organizer to install applications that you are developing for testing purposes .
end question
start question
Is the i7 2.2 GHz MacBook Pro worth the price difference with respect to the 2.0 GHz model ?
I bought a new 15 '' MBP just one week ago and I considered the same choices . Finally I took the 2.0 GHz for the following reasons : from the pure CPU point of view this would be an endless pursuit : there will always be a CPU with a frequency a bit higher than what you have ; for example you would be tempted to go from the 2.2 to the 2.3 GHz the 2.2 ( and 2.3 ) have 8 MB ( instead of 6 MB ) of L3 cache , that 's my only regret I think it is more useful to upgrade from the 5400 RPM drive to the 7200 RPM , I think there 's a noticeable difference if you 're a software developer then you should really consider to upgrade to the HD screen In my opinion , unless your budget is unlimited these two upgrades are much worth their price than the CPU upgrade to 2.2 GHz ( even considering the GPU and the cache ) .
There is no " official " way of changing it , though OSX is customizable with 3rd party apps . I researched around a bit and found out though that most of these apps wo n't work with Lion . Perhaps as time passes by Lion updates for these apps will be released , and perhaps you will be able to make Lion look however you want . Here is a <URL> with some themes for both Mac OS and iOS . They provide a theme for Lion , the only one I could find . Nevertheless , I should clarify : Aqua is still there . The term " Aqua " refers to the whole UI of Mac OS X , including that of Lion . Over the years it <URL> , and it happened again in Lion . I too thought the Leopard-style aqua was better , but trust me , you will like the Lion Aqua . Scrollbars hide automatically and they are meant to be discrete : having the blue scrollbars back would just defeat the purpose . Just the same , Lion tries to streamline elements such as tab views and progress bars that were perhaps to " obtrusive " to the eye , or called to much attention . Im typing this from a machine with Lion , and can tell you you will love the new UI whenever you get your mac . Just give it a try ! :) Designers at Apple did a great job to my opinion . Hope it helps !
The version of Safari that ships with IOS 5 has much better performance than the versions that ship with iOS 4 , as reported in <URL> and <URL> . This increased performance may address the checkerboard rendering issue that you 've mentioned . HTML pipelining was introduced in iOS5 , and may help with the latency that results in slow rendering . Anecdotally , viewing web pages in Safari does seem a lot faster after I upgraded to iOS 5 . Regarding a rollback to iOS 4 if you do n't like iOS 5 - <URL> provides some detailed info in this <URL> .
I think if the rest of the laptop is still in good condition , then replace it . For one thing , it leaves a bit of a bad impression with a potential buyer . You 're giving them a machine which works only with the plug and if they wants to use it on battery they 'll have to go out and work it out with Apple himself . Personally I 'd expect a pretty hefty price reduction for that . If you replace it on the other hand , you can clearly state so in the description ( eg " battery was recently replaced for $ 120 and should now allow you to work for a full X hours while not plugged in " or whatever ) which actually increases the price and the value of the laptop .
edit : See this as the behaviour has changed : <URL> There are two groups of people . Those who wish to have dual displays and have closing the lid go into sleep and people who wish to disable the monitor display , close the lid and use the external monitor as if you had ' docked ' with it . Previously , if you wished to switch from the macbook to an external monitor entirely then you had to perform the following to put the laptop into clamshell mode : Make sure the computer is plugged in to an outlet using the AC power adapter . Connect a USB keyboard and mouse to your computer . With the computer turned on connect the Apple portable ( using the appropriate Apple adapter if necessary ) to the appropriate port on the external display or projector and turn the display or projector on . Once your computer 's Desktop appears on the external display , close the computer 's lid . Once the lid is closed , wake the computer up by either clicking your mouse button or by pressing a key on your external keyboard . source : <URL> So to put the machine in clamshell mode required you to put it to sleep and wake it back up again . As far as user experience goes , that is somewhat jarring . As you have the other options to put the machine to sleep , it seems very likely that this change will remain . Right now , there is no way to alter this behaviour .
is an application that will show you hardware information to determine which bus the CD drive is connected . Once you know your hardware specifications , you can shop better . Check <URL> and <URL> for housings that work physically with SATA connectors . Also check <URL> on the issues you might face moving to an SSD / HD combination .
The comparable page you 're looking for is : <URL> . A1454 is used for AT&amp;T and similar Canadian networks only , while Sprint , Verizon and overseas carriers use A1455 . All bands are also listed on <URL> : Model A1454 GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 4 and 17 ) Model A1455 CDMA EV-DO Rev. A and Rev. B ( 800 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 1 , 3 , 5 , 13 , 25 )
The Thunderbolt monitor includes a number of integrated peripherals as well as being a monitor : Three powered USB 2.0 ports FireWire 800 port Gigabit Ethernet port Thunderbolt port The actual connector for MiniDisplayPort and Thunderbolt is the same , but Thunderbolt can pass many protocols over the same cable , not just A/V signals .
Apple only produces <URL> to connect the original Magsafe to Macs with Magsafe 2 . It does n't provide one to go the other way around . At the moment I 'm unaware of any third party product that does this ( and given the lack of third party Magsafe accessories in general , I would n't expect one any time soon ) .
Yes , RAID 0 is faster than using the drives independently of each other . Whether or not its noticeably faster depends on what kind of application you 're looking at . Some setups benefit hugely from a RAID 0 setup , while for others , its pretty marginal . There 's also the convenience of everything being treated like one big drive . I will however say that spreading your data like this has one huge disadvantage . You 've multiplied the number of potential points of failure by increasing the number of drives in your array , and the data is n't being protected by any sort of mirroring or large scale redundancy . When a RAID 0 array fails , it fails hard , and you 'd be well served by having a very robust backup scheme . For the record , my Mac Pro 's drive are not in a RAID configuration .
You can leave your MacBook Pro running when plugged into an external power source . This should not dramatically reduce the life span of your computer . Be sure to allow the display to sleep after idle time . Leaving a typical display powered on constantly can reduce the life span and cause problems . When your Mac is not plugged in , try and follow <URL> . Apple recommend running down your MacBook Pro 's battery once a month or so . This will help maximise the battery 's life .
The takeapart guide on iFixit sells replacement parts , but expect them to be pricey . The Air is a very , very delicate machine so be warned that getting it put back together takes more grace than getting it apart . Worst case , you could buy an entire display assembly if you feel you are doing more damage than good by proceeding with this repair . Three cables go into the Air 's display assemblyL Wi-Fi antenna Backlight power LVDS cable I presume you nicked the last one - it has the widest connector to the logic board . The real problem is getting inside the Air 's display assembly as I have n't seen that documented anywhere publicly available . That cable might be part of the LCD panel and might be something you could try to buy used from a liquid damaged or physically damaged Air . Here 's where the question lacks details to know why you were in there to begin . What part was being replaced that caused you to need a razor blade on this repair ? Are you going inside the display assembly in the first place ? Do n't rule out taking it in to the store in a static safe back with your tail between your legs . You will then know if they can fix it by quoting you an out of warranty part cost plus labor to fix things - both what was originally wrong and the things that have now gone not right .
Short answer No The background that tables , graphs , images etc. rest above is just a workspace . It 's not a canvas . ( Just to be complete I did try it with my Pencil in my iPad Pro )
The best guide to reference here is : <URL> To use your Apple Thunderbolt Display with your MacBook Pro lid closed : Connect an external USB keyboard and mouse to a USB port on your display , or use the Bluetooth ® Setup Assistant to set up a wireless keyboard and mouse . Make sure your MacBook Pro is turned on . Close the lid on your MacBook Pro to put it to sleep . Wait a few seconds , and then press any key on your external keyboard or click the mouse to wake up your MacBook Pro
I can buy a regular MBP , with a cheap HDD , open it , upgrade the RAM and replace the HDD with a SDD , all for a fraction of the price Apple would charge me . In addition , I still have Ethernet and a CD/DVD drive , in case I need one . As I said , you might need the retina , or you might just like it , both of which are perfectly reasonable points . I do n't , and I prefer to keep my money with me , upgrading my hardware when I need it , and at the price I choose to pay ( out of a range of options ) . Uh , and I also hate the lack of Ethernet port . To each their own .
The short answer is processing speed , screen resolution and memory . The newer ones are obviously faster , and the lastest generation ( 4g ) includes both front and back cameras for shooting video and video calling . For a full list of the differences check out this <URL> .
Console.log is usually written to by calls to Apple 's <URL> ( ) function call . ( I ca n't find any other way to write to it so might be the only way ) This writes to the log of the user that the app is running as system.log is written to by the unix call <URL> . syslog can be configured to write to different files and machines . system.log is a central file written to by all users . Thus only code written specifically for OSX will write to console.log and only by the current user . syslog is used by pure unix apps and if you want central logging . OSX since 10.4 actually writes the logs to a database using <URL>
Go to System Preferences - > Keyboard and , in the Keyboard tab , turn off ( uncheck ) " Automatically illuminate keyboard in low light " . Then , if you turn the brightness down all the way , it should never turn on . If you then want it on ( say , a friend who is not a touch-typist ) , just use the brightness keys on the top row .
is simply a <URL> version of the M3U format [ <URL> ] . ( files can have <URL> . )
In addition to the aluminium vs stainless steel case , The Apple Watch has a <URL> cover as opposed to the Apple Watch Sport 's <URL> cover . In addition , there are more options for bands that can be used with Apple Watch . Specifically , while the <URL> is sold just with the Sport band , the <URL> is available with the Sport Band , the Classic Buckle , the Milanese Loop , the Leather Loop , the Link Bracelet , and the Modern Buckle . However , you can purchase any band to go with your watch as every band will fit every watch . In effect , you can get the Apple Watch Sport model and then purchase the Milanese Loop to wear with it . Changing bands on all models is easy .
end question
start question
Finance App That Charts Bank Info ?
I believe Mint.com does exactly that : <URL> They have a website as well as iPhone and iPad apps .
<URL> ( free , or $ 0.99 <URL> ) will prompt you to open a copied URL on launch . You tap " Okay " and it opens a new tab in the foreground containing the page . I have n't been able to find an iOS browser which automatically opens the URL on the clipboard with no user action .
Try installing the <URL> from this <URL> . This will install the musical notes you need ( free ) . You can then test it out on this <URL> . Hope this helps .
The Siri app was withdrawn from sale to new people , but if you purchased it you can download it still from your history . It wo n't work without servers running , but you can still " get the app " from the store . The app does nothing but check to see if the Siri servers are running . Since they are no longer operational - even people who have the app can launch it to see this announcement .
It all depends on how the app developers chose to implement the software . Take Dropbox as an example . It 's pretty popular and let 's you <URL> at once : In fact , I would also expect them to eventually make it automatically upload all your photos as part of their <URL> feature they are rolling out . For facebook on the other hand , you <URL> need to use a 3rd party application such as <URL> or <URL> , until Facebook change their application to allow this feature .
I use <URL> and it has this capability . If RedLaser ca n't connect to the internet when you take the picture of the barcode , it will store the number and let you look it up later :
They 're in the iTunes . plist-file on a Mac . Since you do n't specify platform , I ca n't offer that much . In Windows , they 're almost certainly stored in a similar preference file . In Mac OS X , they 're not conveniently readable . If you just want to back up your subscription info , locating and backing up the iTunes preferences will do it . If you need to scrape/publish the subscription info , that 's beyond my capabilities . Hope this at least gives you a jumping-off point .
This will not be possible . You will see an cloud icon when you previously " purchased " an app . This will notify you that you could download the app withous any costs . It is not possible to delete those apps from your apple is . If you do n't want to see the cloud icon , you could sign out from the appstore via settings > iTunes &amp; App Store > sign out . This will hide the cloud icon but you have to log in each time you want to download an app .
This sounds like the app <URL> which is available on Mac OS X and iOS . It allows you to use a mixture of natural language and spreadsheet/calculator functions to perform easily readable equations .
Check out <URL> , it 's quite awesome . Boom boosts the volume of your Mac at all levels . From boosting the volume of your music on iTunes , it boom the YouTube videos playing on your web browser . You can now boost the volume of any application playing sound or video like QuickTime , Podcasts , Skype , iChat , DVD Player , Garageband , iMovie and so on .
A common way to work around the cross-border restrictions of the iTunes store is by using pre-paid iTunes cards . These are often available on eBay and you can redeem them in the iTunes store for the country of origin ( assuming you want US items , you need to buy a pre-paid card from the US . )
Apple does not provide any public APIs for interacting with any of the device radios , and would not approve any app that did so with a private API .
You could certainly script this . There are many approaches that would work . It depends on how comfortable you are with the various tools , and if your Mac automatically logs into a user account . If your Mac automatically logs into your account on powering on , consider using Automator or AppleScript , and <URL> . Automator and Twitter Consider combining this <URL> . You could send a private tweet when your account is logged in . Save the workflow as an application and add it your account 's Login Items : System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups Alternative Approaches If your Mac does not automatically log into a user account , you will need to use a shell script approach . Automator and AppleScript both require an active user session . You could use AppleScript or shell script for sending a messages or e-mail . Add <URL> or a <URL> for scheduling the event on start-up or login . This can all be integrated into <URL> as a trigger .
Currently , it is not possible to gift Mac App Store apps directly . There is a workaround where you could buy an iTunes Gift card ( from the iTunes store home menu ) for exactly the price of the app and the recipient can redeem the code in the Mac App Store
I use the MyFitnessPal app when on my iPhone and I use their website when on my Macbook Pro and find them to be easy to use . They do list the foods you 're mentioning on their website here ( the list is enormous , look around ) : <URL> I 'm in the USA so make sure they have the foods you want before signing up / buying the iPhone app .
Not without a jailbreak . If you get a jailbreak there are various ways to do things such as switch airplane mode on/off , adjust screen brightness , turn wifi/3G on or off . The app <URL> is one such example . You 'd be better off diagnosing your AP problem than jailbreaking your phone for just this feature though in my opinion .
One solution I 've come up with may be to convert the PDF document to individual JPG images , then sync those ' photos ' via iTunes . They can then be viewed individually or as a slide show . Caveats are : limited resolution once iTunes downsamples the photos for syncing slideshow stops once you zoom in or manually disrupt it : ideally would like it to automatically continue ( hoping there is a better slide show app to do this ... )
<URL> should help you . From the above-linked splash page : The Word Counter ... gives immediate feedback on your productivity as a writer . encourages you by showing you your daily output . gives you clarity about your daily goals . keeps a complete history of your daily achievements . assists with finding your perfect writing environment . counts what counts : words -- the ultimate metric for writing .
Yes , you 're just syncing the App 's data with iCloud , as no files are leftover when an App is deleted . iOS apps ( and now OS X apps too ) , are Sandboxed . This means that each App has its own space in disk , with its own directories , which act as the home for the App and its data.Deleting an app from the iPhone deletes this sandbox , deleting all data associated with the App . So , if an App supports iCloud sync , whenever you install that App with your Apple ID , in any of your devices , all the information will be synced .
The built-in application is called Grab . You can find it under the Utilities folder in Applications . You can also use keyboard shortcuts to take screen shots . Here 's a quick guide from <URL> : In Mac OS X , you can use simple keyboard shortcuts to do all sorts of things , including capturing images of what 's on your Mac screen . For example , you can take a screen shot of your entire screen by holding down the Command and Shift keys and pressing a 3 . If you hold down the Command and Shift keys and press 4 , Mac OS X turns the cursor into crosshairs you can use to select whatever portion of your display you 'd like to capture in a screen shot . If you immediately hit the Spacebar after typing Command-Shift-4 , Mac OS X replaces those crosshairs with a little camera . Using the camera , you can take a screen shot of the Dock , the entire menu bar , a single open menu , the desktop , or any open window .
end question
start question
How can I be auto logged in with the computer locked ?
I outlined how to do this at <URL> but I will summarize it for you : set your account to autologin create a login item ( using launchd ) which calls : / System/Library/CoreServices / Menu \ Extras/User . menu/Contents/Resources / CGSession - suspend NOTE : that command should be ONE LONG LINE not two lines with a line break/line feed . A more thorough explanation is available at TUAW , so I wo n't repeat it all here , because those are the relevant details . What it does : The idea is very simple , your account is set to auto-login , so all of your login items will run , however , one of those login items ( the CGSession command listed above ) will tell the loginwindow to appear . If you have used Fast User Switching before , you will be familiar with how it works . " But what if someone holds down the shift key to stop autolaunching ? " In my testing , that will also prevent the user from being automatically logged in . Is this 100 % as safe as not using auto-login ? Probably not , but I 'd consider it close to 99.999 % as safe . That said , use at your own risk , etc. .
Since you mentioned Firesheep , let me put in a plug for <URL> : Sheepsafe was built to automate the task of switching your network configuration to use a SOCKS proxy whenever you join an untrusted network . Sheepsafe works by keeping a configuration of known safe wireless networks . When you join an untrusted network , Sheepsafe switches to a network location that has a SOCKS proxy configured and starts a SOCKS proxy by SSH ' ing into a remote server , thus protecting your browsing traffic from FireSheep and other snoopers on the local network . When you switch back to a safe network , Sheepsafe switches back to the default , trusted location and shuts down the SOCKS proxy .
This issue has been removed with the latest Chrome update ( 18.0.1025.142 ) . You can read more about the update here : <URL>
Sorry but it is n't possible from just a configuration change . Neither the iPod nor Windows have options to not mount it . I had the same requirement and ended up making my own USB cable that only passed the power but not the data connections . If you look around online , you can find the same thing for sale for only a few dollars
Yes , the device can communicate with Find my iPhone over Wi-Fi . Find my iPhone uses the currently available network connection , regardless of whether that be Wi-Fi or cellular . The GPS is still used to obtain location information along with Wi-Fi data and the location is sent over Wi-Fi to Find my iPhone .
Just like in the Windows version , this is done via the menu : Tools > Templates and add-ins . In the dialog box that appears , check " automatically update document styles " . And of course set the correct template if necessary . Each time you open the document , and the template location can be found , the styles will be updated to match those from the template .
You are quite correct , you do n't want to sync your iPhone to this new Mac . At the least , you 'd lose any songs or movies you have loaded . You can do what you want using the iPhone Configuration Utility ( free at <URL> ) . Install , connect the iPhone , click on the iPhone 's icon , and go to the Applications tab . It will let you install or uninstall individual apps . Or connect your iPhone to WiFi ( you could use Network Sharing from the new Mac , if no other WiFi is available ) to download directly , after buying from either the iPhone or the Mac .
I have a shell script that I run via a launchd plist every few minutes to automount an NAS drive . I use it from home to mount my NAS as it contains our shared iTunes Media folder . You can look at the script <URL> . I you have questions about the code I 'll be happy to discuss . It has a lots of error checking etc. . Using a shell script and a launchd plist has the benefit if the the mount becomes unmounted for any reason .
There is a free utility called <URL> that helps you clean out the unnecessary apps associated with certain file types : Open-With Manager lets you edit the list of file types a given application thinks it can open . This is most useful with regard to the Finder 's " Open with " context menu ; and it also affects the way applications behave when you drag files to their Dock symbols . Behind the scenes , Open-With Manager works in a way that 's quite similar to <URL> . And to be perfectly honest , Open-With Manager is in fact Service Scrubber 's well-hidden , slightly older twin brother . That 's why the restrictions detailed for Service Scrubber in <URL> apply to Open-With Manager as well . When running on Mac OS X 10.5 or later , Open-With Manager will not edit signed applications . I use this on Snow Leopard , but I have n't tested it on Lion . Also , it may take a while for the Open-With menus to reflect the changes made in Open-With Manager , so try waiting or just reboot .
If this iPhone model has a SIM card , try to put it to another phone/iPhone and try to disable SIM Pin . On iPhone : Settings - > Phone - > SIM PIN - > disable Then put this SIM again to your friend 's iPhone and reboot it . After restart , iPhone should automatically log in to cellular network and you should be able to disable the lost mode using iCloud page . Maybe your friend should consider using two factor authentication to enable additional protection to iCloud account : <URL>
Check Zooom/2 and its Auto Raise feature that " causes the application currently under the mouse point to become the front-most application , after a user-specified delay . It 's possible to raise just the window under the mouse or all windows for an application . " <URL>
I do n't think there is any enforced limit for using one account on lots of devices if all you care to do is use Find My Phone . You will run into the 10 device limit if you try to install apps using this ID , but just entering it into iCloud and only turning on FMP ( FMi / FMiP ??! ) should scale past the limits people normally reach when using one ID for multiple devices . Even if you get away with this , your users might get confused or wish to use Find My ... / iCloud themselves and find you have locked their device You might want to reach out to your Apple account rep to avoid running into several anti-fraud efforts that prevent this sort of mass scale deployment if you try to use one Apple ID for say the App Store on so many devices . In addition to that specifically being against the licensing terms , you will face delays if and when this account gets locked , so plan to test things out with a small group ( say 3-8 devices sharing one ID ) as a pilot before you decide how to manage all 100 devices . There are quite a few MDM packages available , but without knowing your specific situation , it will be hard for you to determine if automating some of the management will be a good investment or if you can just use the Apple Configurator to set up your deices and depend on the end users to manage their Apple ID/iCloud accounts and not mess with your one set up to track all the devices .
Sorry , but it 's not possible to do this without jail breaking . The " Personal Hotspot " function on an iPhone only allows for sharing the 3G connection , not the wifi connection , so you ca n't use it as a wifi adapter . It 's feasible that Apple could add this functionality , but it 's a fairly niche case , so I would n't count on it . More immediately , if you have a laptop with wifi available , you could use Internet Sharing ( OS X ) / Internet Connection Sharing ( Windows ) and an ethernet cable to get connectivity to your desktop . Or if you 've got a Staples or something similar nearby , they usually have USB wifi adapters for $ 30 or less .
Yes it is . At least in the iBooks app ( the one from Apple ) . I do n't know about the Kindle app , but I 'm pretty sure it 's possible as well . You can make a single touch in the right or left part of the screen to go to the next or previous page in your eBook .
Navigate to ( e.g. use & #x 2318 ; + & #x 21E7 ; + G. ) Then , in list view hold & #x 2325 ; while clicking the triangle . This will show all subdirectories of a certain folder . By default , you 'll do n't see hidden files/directories . To show hidden files type the following commands in the : You can use the value in the command to unto this action .
The Auto Correct ( spelling ) is located in the Outlook Preferences . Open the AutoCorrect and uncheck all . Just in case we are talking about something else : To turn off automatic spell checking , on the Edit menu , point to Spelling and Grammar , and then clear the check mark next to Check Spelling While Typing .
Autofocus on the iPhone is done via an electrical motor , moving the front lens backward and forward , and software that captures and analyses the image for best sharpness , which usually is the " sweet " spot . Recent versions of iOS probably offload the analysis to the <URL> available since the Apple A5 chip .
Unfortunately I 'm unaware of any way to do this without a workaround . Here it is : Go to preferences - > signatures and create one that uses the font color you want to use . You have to select the text , right-click , go under font and pick the color from there ( at least on my Lion machine ) Set that signature as your default When you compose a new message , put your cursor on the beginning of the line that the signature is on , hit enter a few times , and when you start typing your message it will be in that font/color . There will be a blank line at the top that is formatted black , which you can backspace to delete , just make sure you 've started typing something first or it will set it back to black .
It is loaded by default by . If you run that will disable it for your user . To turn it back on
If it 's an iMac 21 " / 27 " , yes you can use it as a display with the so called <URL> . You can enable it using the Cmd + F2 keyboard shortcut !
end question
start question
Is FileVault distinct from Finder 's " Encrypt ... " command ?
<URL> use the XTS-AES 128 encryption . As Finder 's contextual menu encryptation option and the Erase with the Encrypted format use Filevault 's system , the encryption is the same . Disk Utility 's , in the other hand , when creating an new image , lets you choose between a 128 or 256 bits AES Encryption . These two methods are , therefore , different . The latter just creates a folder which requires a password to be opened , while Filevault is a lot more complex . And for the Logical Partition , <URL> is explained in detail . How Does FileVault 2 Work ? Compared to the bare file system , or even FileVault 1 , FileVault 2 seems like magic . How does it work ? The first thing to know is that Apple has included a Logical Volume Manager ( LVM ) with OS X Lion . This is what FileVault 2 gets to ride on top of . Physical media still exists -- we really ca n't get away from that , as the data need to be stored somewhere . CoreStorage does n't really care what the media is , though : traditional spinning-plater drives , SSD , USB storage or even a disk image . Represented above in green , we have three volumes that reside on some physical disks . These three volumes are converted into CoreStorage volumes and imported into a Logical Volume Group ( LVG ) . This sets up a " pool " of storage . Volumes can be added to and removed from the pool after creation . A LVG is represented with a UUID . This LVG is then brought into a Logical Volume Family ( LVF ) . An LVF maintains properties about the volumes in a LVG and presents these Logical Volumes ( LV ) to the system . CoreStorage creates new device nodes for each LV . As shown in the visualization above , the LVs , in blue , have a device node ( disk1 , disk2 , disk3 ) . The ' key ' icon associated with the LVF shows that encryption is one of the properties maintained about the LVG . This is the layer at which the encryption key resides . When you " Turn On FileVault ... " , one of the steps converts your disk to a CoreStorage volume . Of course , when you " Turn On FileVault ... " , only your boot disk is encrypted . Naturally , this fits Apple 's 99 % case and is the right fit for the bulk of Mac users on the planet . That said , FileVault can not and will not encrypt any other drives you may have attached to your system . That 's up to you .
Select the folder you want ( or command + A to select all ) and then press : Command + right arrow And the left arrow undoes what the right arrow did , should you want to close things back up again .
A beep indicates that the shortcut that was pressed was not interpreted by apps on the system . This means the shortcut is already unbound , so it seems you 're having some problem with Sublime Text itself rather than the shortcut being bound to something else .
, , and are perfectly good DNS query tools in OS X , but they all query DNS directly rather than going through OS X 's internal resolution system . As a result , they do n't check the / etc/hosts file , or resolve Bonjour/mDNS names ( those ending in . local ) . The standard ( quick 'n dirty ) way to test resolution is to use , since it 'll resolve the address you give it through the usual system before attempting to ping it . If you want something intended for the purpose , use instead :
I 've set a stylesheet in Safari and these are the changes that occurred in Safari 's plist : Your command line would be :
The response I got from Apple Support : For many repairs , as well as quality checks after a completed repair , it is necessary that our technicians can boot the Mac . If FileVault is enabled , that means that we do need to note the password for the time of the repair . A viable alternative is to wipe the Mac 's hard drive or flash storage prior to the repair and restore from a backup afterwards . So either prepare to hand off your password to them , or empty your hard drive before giving the macbook for repair .
The following works . System Preferences - > Login - > Login Options - > Check Enable Show Input menu in login window
To create an account in the Users folder Create and set the shell property to bash . Create and set the user 's full name . ( Displayed in some of the panels/login screen ) Create and set the user 's ID . ( this is the unique id , you need to find out what id your last user create was and add one ) Create and set the user 's group ID property . ( This can be your default group ) Create and set the user home directory . Set the password . ( dont use password as a password ) Some more details can be found on <URL>
You can look at <URL> and apply accordingly to your case . TL ; DR version :
Yes this really is one long command -- make sure to run it all . Replace with actual website , and with the relevant version of the simulator that you 're using .
OS X ships with and you will want to to get vi-style commands . A very popular choice is and the many customization packages like <URL> . Neither she 'll is fully in either style by default . For emacs style , it 's similar - see <URL> : You switch between the two modes in bash , zsh or ksh with set - o vi or set - o emacs , and with bindkey - e or bindkey - v in tcsh or zsh .
The official answer is No . As of iOS 4 , there is a simple workaround , however . You can just add a podcast to a playlist and speak " Play playlist PlaylistName " .
From Apple Support : Warning : If you encrypt an iPhone backup in iTunes and then forget your password , you will not be able to restore from backup and your data will be unrecoverable . If you forget the password , you can continue to back up and use the device , however you will not be able to restore the encrypted backup to any device without the password . You do not need to enter the password for your backup each time you back up or sync . If you can not remember the password and want to start again , you must perform a full software restore and when iTunes prompts you to select the backup from which to restore , choose set up as a new device . I assume it applies also to iPad , and yeah that 's a terrible inconvenience for you , but at least it 's a definitive answer from the source . <URL>
There is a command line wireless utility called , but it is not in the user $ PATH to be able to call it without remembering where it is . so to make it available at the line , and put it where it really belongs , in Terminal : And when calling it , gives great info about the wireless network you 're connected to : for syntax and quick help : outputs what looks like a man page , for examples and full help , call command without arguments :
I frequently reinstall MacPorts ( e.g. , when there 's a new major version of Xcode ) so I keep a file with a list of my essential ports for easy reinstalling . Here 's my list of essential software that does n't come with OS X . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
You could easily achieve this using ( which is , actually , a wrapper for ) : Optionally , add the workgroup : You could , of course , change the ( for something like ) . After doing this , simply go to to browse your data . To unmount , using the following command :
I think what you could do is creating a encrypted disk image on the external HDD and put your time maschine files in it for the timeframe your friend has the disk . To achieve this open the disk utility tool and choose File - > New - > Blank Disc Image ( or Image From Folder ) . BUT keep in mind that as long as this disk is not ( re - ) formatted properly it will be easy to recover unencrypted data which seems to be deleted or moved ( using some fancy recovery tools ) .
Both use the same data structure to create a volume within a volume . One creates a wrapper and the data that is on the disk is scrambled / mapped through a cryptographic function so that the same data written to two different blocks ends up physically different on the drive . That 's FileVault 2 . The other creates a wrapper and the data on the disk is either mirrored elsewhere or mapped through a splitting or shared checksum function so that the data on the drive is physically part of a check sum or a portion of a logical block in the filesystem . This is RAID . Apple 's RAID and encryption tools are not the only ones you could use , but this is how they are currently engineered - to be mutually exclusive . I expect this to not change on HFS + based systems since Apple has announced the new APFS for Sierra ( macOS 10.12 ) which will allow significantly more robust storage encryption and physical volume spanning options like COW , snapshots , per file encryption , etc. . .
<URL> use the XTS-AES 128 encryption . As Finder 's contextual menu encryptation option and the Erase with the Encrypted format use Filevault 's system , the encryption is the same . Disk Utility 's , in the other hand , when creating an new image , lets you choose between a 128 or 256 bits AES Encryption . These two methods are , therefore , different . The latter just creates a folder which requires a password to be opened , while Filevault is a lot more complex . And for the Logical Partition , <URL> is explained in detail . How Does FileVault 2 Work ? Compared to the bare file system , or even FileVault 1 , FileVault 2 seems like magic . How does it work ? The first thing to know is that Apple has included a Logical Volume Manager ( LVM ) with OS X Lion . This is what FileVault 2 gets to ride on top of . Physical media still exists -- we really ca n't get away from that , as the data need to be stored somewhere . CoreStorage does n't really care what the media is , though : traditional spinning-plater drives , SSD , USB storage or even a disk image . Represented above in green , we have three volumes that reside on some physical disks . These three volumes are converted into CoreStorage volumes and imported into a Logical Volume Group ( LVG ) . This sets up a " pool " of storage . Volumes can be added to and removed from the pool after creation . A LVG is represented with a UUID . This LVG is then brought into a Logical Volume Family ( LVF ) . An LVF maintains properties about the volumes in a LVG and presents these Logical Volumes ( LV ) to the system . CoreStorage creates new device nodes for each LV . As shown in the visualization above , the LVs , in blue , have a device node ( disk1 , disk2 , disk3 ) . The ' key ' icon associated with the LVF shows that encryption is one of the properties maintained about the LVG . This is the layer at which the encryption key resides . When you " Turn On FileVault ... " , one of the steps converts your disk to a CoreStorage volume . Of course , when you " Turn On FileVault ... " , only your boot disk is encrypted . Naturally , this fits Apple 's 99 % case and is the right fit for the bulk of Mac users on the planet . That said , FileVault can not and will not encrypt any other drives you may have attached to your system . That 's up to you .
Your best bet seems to be AppleScript : ( from <URL> ) As for entering a username and password , I 'm not sure how you could do that . Further scripting could get you the frontmost window and input the username and password , then submit the dialog , but as I do n't have a Cisco VPN to test I could n't tell you how to set that up . If you have the actual Cisco VPN client installed ( which afaik is not necessary ) , you could just use this command :
end question
start question
Can I play chess on my Mac from the command line ?
Yes ! The OS X Chess app relies on the <URL> engine , which has a command line version . Type and press enter to play : Make moves with the coordinates of the origin and destination you want : moves the piece at e1 to e4 . Sjeng does n't take any command line arguments , but you can edit the config file ( stored in ) . This will probably mess with your settings in the GUI Chess app ; make a backup before editing .
CMD + n opens a new terminal window . CMD + t opens a new terminal tab . If you want to open something other than the default Terminal , use the techniques <URL> to open a pre-defined Terminal setup . You can also do CMD + n , i , Tab to bring up the Inspector , then use up/down arrows , or type the names , which lets you choose a pre-defined Terminal . If you want a setup hard-coded and not yet known to Terminal.app , follow <URL> .
is a configuration tool for network settings in System Preferences . event I do n't really known what the ShadowsocksX project is , but I decided this command can help up . PS : if you just need to set the proxy for something like wget , or curl , then you can use the fairly universal ' http_proxy ' and ' ftp_proxy ' env variables .
Check out the Mono Project . It may be what you are looking for . <URL> <URL> is a cross-platform IDE primarily designed for C# and other . NET languages . MonoDevelop enables developers to quickly write desktop and ASP.NET Web applications on Linux , Windows and Mac OSX . MonoDevelop makes it easy for developers to port . NET applications created with Visual Studio to Linux and Mac OSX maintaining a single code base for all platforms .
AFAIK these display are not HDCP compliant therefore you 'll have some troubles watching movies that have these protections .
Simply the answer is : you can not change because of the update
Use the following Terminal command : For a list of valid timezone values , use :
is a binary available in a set of tools <URL> . It can also be installed via Homebrew with . <URL> is a SH shell script that calls AppleScript to create an alias . I 'm including the shell script here for future reference incase it goes missing from the nets .
You can use <URL> . This solution has an iPhone and Mac ( or Windows ) client and sends a push notification from the Mac app to the iPhone with the information for a call , text , URL , text or an image . The iPhone app then opens the data sent to it by the Mac app . The iPhone app <URL> and the Mac app is free . myPhoneDesktop requires an account to be set up , but it is free .
You are able to see the charge status on the iPhone page on the new iTunes 11 .
No , this is currently not possible . Your browsing history is not shared over iCloud and ca n't be viewed on your Mac .
I frequently reinstall MacPorts ( e.g. , when there 's a new major version of Xcode ) so I keep a file with a list of my essential ports for easy reinstalling . Here 's my list of essential software that does n't come with OS X . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Yes you can , drop them into iTunes or email them to an account you can check via the iPad . You can choose to either read it in the Maill app or read it in iBooks . Or just use Safari on the iPad to go to <URL> and download the PDF to iBooks right there .
Bowtie should solve your problem . It 's a free desktop app that talks to a .99 cent app that you download on the iPhone : <URL>
Have a look at " Combining PDF files on the command line in OSX " in <URL> . It turns out that from Tiger onwards , OSX ships with a Python script that does exactly what you need . The script is already executable , and Python is pre-installed on OS X , so all you need to do to run it is opening the Terminal and typing Also on the linked page it suggests making a symbolic link for the file to make typing easier however they omitted the in , and without it , a hard link is created . Probably would n't matter , however though I 'd mention it .
I know I 'm replying on an old question , but I came in here googling . My iPhone 4 had the same behavior , I just updated to iTunes 10 and I my music is no longer greyed out . In essence : upgrade to iTunes 10 and you should be able to do this .
I 've set a stylesheet in Safari and these are the changes that occurred in Safari 's plist : Your command line would be :
It seems that an USB cable is still required . The <URL> in Apple Support that shows how to import videos into iPhoto has not been updated recently . Either Apple is still behind in updating these support articles ( not likely ) or there is nothing to update -- in other words , you still need USB . The <URL> for iPhoto 9.2 list the major updates to the app . It mentions that iCloud support is now included , but nothing specific about importing videos wirelessly . Hope this helps .
Here is a shell script I wrote at work to handle this as part of the NetInstall process ( creating a local administrator account automatically during imaging process ) . Some notes to mention : I have this saved as an executable " . sh " file . Since it executes during NetInstall it runs as root , and needs to run as root to work properly . You can also subtract the first two lines , add a " sudo " to the beginning of each subsequent line , and manually run these as individual commands in Terminal . Modify UniqueID from 501 to a number that you will know is safe on all systems ( 501 is taken by the first account created on a Mac , generally something higher like 550 will probably be safe , depending on how many users you have on your system ) . PrimaryGroupID of 80 creates an Admin user . Change to PrimaryGroupID of 20 to create a Standard user . I 've imaged well over 50 Macs this way with no issues . I use this account to run commands via SSH , to push out patches via ARD and to do local desk-side administration .
OS X ships with and you will want to to get vi-style commands . A very popular choice is and the many customization packages like <URL> . Neither she 'll is fully in either style by default . For emacs style , it 's similar - see <URL> : You switch between the two modes in bash , zsh or ksh with set - o vi or set - o emacs , and with bindkey - e or bindkey - v in tcsh or zsh .
end question
start question
Can I move an existing iPhoto library to a location on a network-drive so I can use it from multiple apple computers ?
You can do it , but do it with caution . I 've run network home directories before , which is essentially what you 're describing , and iPhoto supports it fine . On your standard Desktop OS , simply create alias to the iPhoto library on your network share in your User home directory photos folder . You can also set iPhoto to use a new library in a new location by opening iPhoto with Option ( Alt ) held down , where it will then prompt you to locate the new library ( which would be on your network share ) . The biggest issue you 'll have to address is ensuring it 's not open and being edited by two iPhoto instances at the same time . I 'm not 100 % sure how it will behave , but you can bet not well . You could get situations where photos become orphaned , etc. .
You can only sync local music ( music that exists in the iTunes library on the computer you sync your iPhone with ) .
From my hands-on experience , I 'd have to say , " negative " . I 've created a couple of fusion drives on a 2008 Mac Pro from devices with preexisting partitions . Building the fusion in Core Storage destroyed all partitions on the media .
This works exactly as one would expect it to : When you share from an iOS 8 device , purchases made with the Apple ID used on that device for purchases ( iTunes , iBooks , AppStore ) -- even if that ID is different from the one used for iCloud ( Photos , Mail , Contacts , Calendars ) on that device -- will be shared .
You should be able to filter your firewall logs down to requests originating from your computer/your phone 's local IP address , and look it it 's outgoing requests . I 'm pretty sure all that app download traffic takes place over bog standard HTTPS , 443/tcp . Ensure all apps have stopped running , open App Store , move over to the Updates category , wait for all traffic ( app image requests and the like ) to die down , then tap update . The next series of requests should fail , and you should have the reason relevant to your own configuration .
The best way to get TV hooked up to a Mac is through a TV Tuner . The best TV Tuners for Mac are by far the EyeTV <URL> . The TV tuner could also be used to hook up to your Wii , however that is a bit impractical . Instead consider buying an adapter from RCA to <URL> to use your iMac as a Monitor for the Wii .
Macs work just fine with non-Apple keyboards . Alt becomes option , and the Windows key becomes the command key . And if you want to rearrange them , you can easily do so in the System Preferences : However , I prefer to use Apple keyboards with my Mac as they have buttons on the top to control expose , volume , and pause/rewind/fastforward of media playback . Apple keyboards also have the command key better positioned for keyboard shortcuts than the Windows key is on regular keyboards .
I 've had to do this on an iMac with a failed optical drive before . From <URL> : ... then reboot , and hopefully the option will then show up in Finder > Preferences > Sidebar .
Try the <URL> first . It will move everything you need from your old mac . ( OS 10.6.8 or later ) Many applications have data in the / Library/Application Support folder or the ~ / Library/Application Support folder as well as prefeferences and other scattered support files that would all need to be moved .
Try this ( not automated , because i do n't like automated delete for anything ) : Make a " smart album " in the iPhoto with the condition " Photo is Movie " . With this you get all movies into your new smart album . press info ( for check how much MB they 're occupied ) Simply drag &amp; drop movies out of the iPhoto ( long time ) ensure ( double check ) they are really OK move the movies from the smart-album into the Trash empty ( triple check before deleting - do not blame me , when your computer get destroyed or so )
You certainly can . In iTunes , you can choose where your music library is stored : If you want multiple iTunes accessing the library , it can get complicated . If other music players just use the folder structure , it should just work . Extra scripts and config options can be set up so that iTunes uses a small local library if the network drive is not mounted , etc. .
it generally depends on being constantly connected ( be it ethernet , wifi or some sort of 3g dongle ) or not . ultramobile and having the data everywhere where you have an internet connection : I personally have tried to host my 80gb itunes collection on a jungledisk ( powered by amazon s3 ) and I can only say it 's cumbersome . e.g. : you download new podcasts and end up re-uploading them to your s3 storage . ultramobile and all your data at home on your network ( e.g. time capsule or some sort of network attached storage ) : also did this for a while , no hickups , works great via 802.11 g although I 'd recommend 802.11 n if you 're likely to watch HD videos straight from your NAS/Time capsule . ultramobile and all your data always with you : that 's the approach I 'm currently using , I have a 500g usb2 drive I carry in my notebook bag containing my itunes library and assorted other data ( iphoto library and what not ) that does n't fit on the internal drive . It 's my favorite solution as I have my data on me even if there is no internet connection available . cheers florian
AFAIK these display are not HDCP compliant therefore you 'll have some troubles watching movies that have these protections .
The Install App that you download from the Mac App Store is a universal installer that is n't tied to a specific model/build . Similar to the retail installation discs from earlier operating system releases . It will install properly on any supported systems that meet the <URL> . So yes , as long as the installer is from the Mac App Store then you should be able to copy it to a thumb drive and install it on any supported Macs .
You ca n't , as Apple does n't provide this ability . From <URL> : You can not merge two or more Apple IDs into a single one . You can , however , use one Apple ID for iCloud services and another Apple ID for store purchases ( including iTunes in the Cloud and iTunes Match ) . You can keep using all the old apps , but they wo n't update without the original password for the original Apple ID . In practice , you will eventually tire of the prompts or delete the apps in question . In the short term , you can use them all without needing the other account name or password .
Yes , you can move the applications . Providing the destination remains in the Spotlight index , the Mac App Store will continue to update the app .
<URL> details a way to do this . Basically you 'll create ( or modify ) the file and add a line similar to : The actual UUID will vary , you can find the UUID for your disk in : In Mac OS X Panther , Disk Utility and the diskutil command does n't display the UUID value . But if you look in the system.log file , when the disk is mounted , you can see something similar to this ( line breaks added for narrower display ) : FireWire HD / Volumes/FireWire HD ... localhost diskarbitrationd [ 87 ] : disk1s10 hfs F0E430C1-5558-3BB3-9FA9-6904B663FEEA Mac OS X Disc / Volumes/Mac OS X Disc The string before the volume name is the UUID for the disk .
Your frustration with the Finder is a worldwide sport :) Finder does make things harder sometimes . Finder exhibits different behavior depending upon the context ( both the source and destination ) of your files . If you drag files in the same " Volume " ( or Drive ) , it will default to Move . If you drag files to a different " Volume " ( or Drive ) , it will default to Copy . However , this behavior can be inverted by pressing ⌥ while dragging . ( That 's option or alt in non-apple keyboards ) . So for instance if you Drag a set of files to another folder in the same drive ( say from your Documents to your Desktop ) , Finder will default to Move those files . If you intend to Copy , you have to press ⌥ . This will change the cursor and a green " + " marble will appear , indicating that you will be making a copy . If , on the other hand you insert a USB Key and want to Move files from there to your Desktop , Finder will default to Copy ( when you drag ) , so you will have to override it by , again , pressing ⌥ . This time the Green " + " Marble will disappear . If you happen to have a two-button mouse , you can always drag with the right mouse button ; upon release in the destination folder , a contextual menu will appear , asking you for an action ( Copy or Move ) . Finder does n't implement cut , so any " move " operation must be manually performed by using the mouse as I 've just described . There is , albeit for a small price , a very decent Finder " plug-in " . I 'm talking about <URL> . It 's not a bloated piece of software and has been decently stable since I got it . Among other features ( like tabs ! ) it sports Cut and Paste : Use keyboard shortcuts to move files around . Faster than drag &amp; drop . I do not work for BinaryAge but I do recommend TotalFinder to people who does n't want to use a full finder replacement ( like the excellent <URL> ) , but still wants a few details . All these pieces of software offer trial versions so you can " see for yourself " . Finally , as already suggested , do n't ⌘ and click to move or copy files or you will be effectively deselecting the last one . Hope this helps you a little bit more . As a side note , there are some Finder alternatives or enhancements , some of these topics have been discussed here on Ask Different .
Just move them is probably the best solution . The user caches and preference files stick with the user home folder , so other than convention - most cases it does n't really matter which volume contains an application . You 'll need or file permission tweaking to actually delete some of the apps , but I 've found no downsides to moving any apps to an external drive . Spotlight still indexes them , updates to the App Store work as long as the drive stays mounted when you want to see that an update is available . Tools like LaunchBar and others will probably need hand-holding to find your moved applications - especially if you do n't place them in / Applications on the destination volume . You will need to re-introduce the moved copies of the App to <URL> , but in some brief testing , the following apps worked flawlessly when moved to the root of an external drive . Mail iWork 09/Keynote Utilities/Terminal
No there is n't . Pretty much the point of iPhoto is that it treats the original file as a " digital negative " and the non-destructive editing feature is based on that . So , iPhoto ( and Aperture ) never perform any operations on the Original , only on a copy . It does n't make multiple versions , tho . There 's only one edited version . What you can do : Export the Edited Versions . Delete the photos from iPhoto . Re-import the edited versions . You 'll lose a lot - not least the ability to edit non-destructively - but if that 's what you want . A better solution is to use an app that does what you want - that is , edit the pics directly . You know that you can store an entire iPhoto Library on a disk formatted Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) ?
end question
start question
How do I install Flash in the guest account only ?
Yes , Google Chrome has a sandboxed built-in version of Flash . Download Chrome . Navigate to : Macintosh HD > Users > Guests Right Click and select " New Folder " and change its name to Applications Open the Google Chrome disk image and drag Chrome.app to this folder Google Chrome and its Flash player will only be accessible to the Guest user .
No . CDMA will only work of you buy and activate your 4S device onto a CDMA carrier . The <URL> shows that when you activate the phone it will choose one technology for coverage in country . GSM Registered phones will roam on GSM as will CDMA phones . Sprint should work in 35 unnamed countries and Verizon in 40 at launch .
Sorry , by design the Guest users are Guests ( temporary visitors ) . They do not require password and you can not set one . Your only other alternative is to set up a user account with password . However , that could bring trouble and I would not trust the 4 years one , he/she could find how to change password and then you are locked out :)
Per my answer on a related question ( <URL> ) , there are only two order states with Mission Control . Order generated as Desktop/Full Screen spaces are created , or the default ; " Automatically rearranged based on recent use " which I admit that I have no entirely narrowed down exactly when it changes them . As of this writing , in OS X Lion 10.7.1 , there is no way to explicitly order spaces except to remove and re-add them in an order you would prefer , after unchecking the checkbox listed in the screenshot above .
As far as I know , not with the stock options . You may be able to do this on a jailbroken phone if there 's a jailbreak community app for that . Short of that , you 'd have to make one yourself . Otherwise , you 're down to changing these settings manually when you 're away from WiFi .
In iTunes Connect , under Agreements , Tax , and Banking , you can add your bank account . Apple will then pay the money into the account when it reaches a certain amount .
When you turn on the computer , put the disc in the drive with one hand , and hold down the option key with the other . This forces the Mac to look for ANY bootable media . If nothing comes up , the hard drive is blank ( as you suspect ) , and the ROM drive ca n't read the disc you are putting in ( or the ROM drive has failed ) . You can try creating a Mountain Lion USB key . Incidentally , what Mac are you putting this disc in ? A Mac Book Pro , an iMac ? What generation ? What CPU is in it ?
Yes . Sign up with apple for their custom B2B store and you can sell apps to only the clients you approve . Your clients will sign up for VPP and you 'll need to set things up when you upload your app to the App Store . <URL> For the administrative hassle , you get the ability to sell purchase orders , set custom pricing , negotiate custom contract directly with your customers and have Apple still do the app review , the QA and app distribution for you . Alternatively , your clients can set up a MDM and custom App Store and you can follow Apple 's instructions for app distribution outside the App Store .
No , it is flash memory soldered onto the main circuit board and can not be changed . It is not similar to devices with removable/upgradeable storage at all . In this case " no user-serviceable parts inside " would be pretty close to the truth . <URL> has a great iPhone 4S tear down if you 'd like a complete tour of the internals . They have done the same to many devices if you explore a bit , very interesting .
You only need the first part of this code to do what you ask , but the rest may also be helpful .
There should be a preference thing on YouTube to select HTML5 , but they 've reorganized the page so many times since I last tracked it down that I have no idea where it is now . Instead , I have ClickToFlash installed ( it 's under " Most Popular " in the Safari Extensions Gallery ) ; open its preferences ( Safari Preferences ... > Extensions ) and you can tell it to always use HTML5 for YouTube and other sites that support HTML5 in place of Flash .
Assuming that the InstallESD.dmg is on the windows 7 computer : Copy the InstallESD.dmg file onto the USB drive ( just copy , not burning etc ) Boot into the MacBook 's Recovery Partition . Plug in the USB drive and open disk utility . Restore the USB drive using the InstallESD.dmg on the USB drive * Restart and boot from the USB Drive . * You might not be able to restore from an image that on the drive being restored . In which case use 2 USB drives ( one to copy the InstallESD.dmg from the PC and one to restore it to and boot from ) or : open terminal from the Utilities menu in the recovery partition ( on the homescreen ) . Use to find the location of your hard drive and USB drive Use to copy the InstallESD.dmg to you hard drive . ( e.g. , where you replace the paths with the ones found in step 2 ) Open Disk Utility and restore the USB drive using the InstallESD.dmg on your hard drive , if you ca n't find your hard drive in the Open dialog , press cmd + shift + g and you can enter the path manually . Or if your USB CD drive can burn DVDs and you have a DVD , you could use the USB drive to copy from windows and then use the Macbook 's Disk Utility to burn the image to the DVD . ( or use the DVD to copy from the PC and use the USB drive to boot )
The developers of those apps have blocked AirPlay video . Though the default is to allow video streaming , individual developers can make that call for their app . Older apps ( before iOS 5 ) will all do it , as well many released after iOS 5 came out . See the developer documentation , specifically " allowsAirPlayVideo " <URL> .
Unfortunately Eclipse is not a well behaved app . Yo need the Eclipse.app and the other files in the downloaded directory to keep the same relative directory structure . Thus you need to move the whole directory from Downloads as is . I moved it to ~ / eclipse.helios and then dragged the Eclipse.app into the Dock .
<URL> explains it very nice . Basically you are modifying a " User Template " file , which is used to create a fresh new user every time you log in as a Guest . If you 're not quite sure on how to do it just ask for help . :)
iOS 8.4 is not an open beta , so you have to be registered Apple developer ( 99 $ a year ) to use beta software on your iOS device . Also note that getting the software-package is not enough . You 're devices UID has to be registered with apple so it will activate when you install the beta software .
I saw your question before , but was at a loss to provide specific information . However , I took a look at <URL> . In particular on the page , <URL> , I noted that it 's actually the hardware address , not the user ID , that is used as identification by Time Machine . From the page : Each Mac is identified by a hardware address internal to the Mac . It 's embedded in the Logic Board ( motherboard ) . The hardware address is n't displayed in the backups , but is kept in an extended attribute of the folder representing the Computer . That 's why when you get a new logic board , Time Machine thinks you got a new Mac . That 's also why you can rename your Mac ( System Preferences > Sharing ) and Time Machine will automatically rename the Computer folder on the backups ; or you can have two Macs with the same name , but Time Machine still knows which backups belong to which Mac . However , on the same page , Pondini goes on to say that each backup volume is assigned a Universally Unique IDentifier ( UUID ) that is in the extended attributes of the volume . Pondini says that this " should " cause Time Machine to automatically recognize the old backup . However , if Time Machine does not automatically recognize the old backup via the UUID , then there is a <URL> . It 's getting fairly involved at that point , and though it might be worth the effort from an investigative standpoint , you might be better off starting your Time Machine backups from scratch ( just to wipe the slate clean , so to speak ) .
It is also the tab key . The difference to Windows is , that the " return " key always pushes the default button ( which is the colored one ) . The currently selected button ( which can be changed using the tab key ) is marked through a colored border . If you 'd like to push this button , you have to press the space bar .
I recommend and use <URL> ( donation-ware ) . It 's much more flexible than what Apple provides .
Usually when Apple says " SSD " they refer to a removable/upgradeable solid-state ( flash ) storage device . The MBP with Retina Display ( and the MacBook Airs ) are also using solid-state storage , but they are non-removable . See also : <URL>
end question
start question
How to create playlist from Up next songs in iTunes ?
I have n't found any " one click " method , but these steps do the trick : Create a new playlist and give it a title . This playlist should now be open in the right sidebar in iTunes 11 . Open the Up Next list via the blue icon to the right of the current song 's title . Click on the first song you want to add to select it . Shift-click on the last song you want to add . All songs between and including the first and last should now be highlighted in the Up Next pane . Click and drag the list into the open playlist . You 'll need to switch to the History view in the Up Next pane and repeat the process of selecting tracks and adding them to your new playlist . Click " Done " in the playlist sidebar once you 've finished adding tracks and putting them in the desired order .
Apple Music offline songs are stored in this directory : A normal Song with a duration between 3:45 min and 5:02 min is about 7MB to 11MB large . rule of thumb is to calculate 10MB per Song and you are on the safe side . For Example a Maroon 5 song :
I use iTunes 10 in Windows 7 . Select the tracks . Right-click and select Get Info . Open the Options tab . Set : Equilizer Preset = Spoken Word Media Kind = Audiobook Part of a compilation = No Remember position = Yes Skip when shuffling = Yes Gapless album = No Press OK . Also , make sure the correct track numbers and disc numbers are set for each track .
The file will be saved if the containing folder has not yet been backed up , otherwise it will be backed up next time Time Machine makes a backup . The backup will not be corrupted .
There currently is no way for you to disable this as of < = iOS8 and within the boundaries of factory OS . This is a visual aide for those people that have automatic updates enabled . You can look into jailbreaking your device if it is worth that much to you
The folder to open is controlled in a special field in the filesystem header . You can change this entry using the command as described <URL> . To review the current settings , use the following command : You can change which folder of the mounted volume is opened in Finder on mount : You can reset the information completely as well : Note that using these commands make the volume unbootable , so be careful if you need this . Of course , they also do not work for volumes with a read-only filesystem/medium , such as a CD/DVD .
What you observe is the default setting for podcasts in iTunes , which is to download the most recent episode of a podcast . To avoid this , follow these steps : Go to Podcasts in the iTunes Library pop-up menu . Select a podcast . Right click and choose " Settings " ( or alternatively , click on the gear icon next to the podcast title on the episode list on the right ) . In the Podcast Settings dialog , under the " Settings for : " dropdown , select " Podcasts Defaults " ( this would apply your changes to all podcasts ) . In the " When new episodes are available : " dropdown , select " Do nothing " ( the default option being " Download the most recent one " ) . Click OK . With this change , iTunes will never download new episodes for any of your podcasts . If you wish to change this setting only for specific podcasts , you can do so by selecting the specific podcast in the " Settings for : " dropdown and/or by changing the defaults .
Scroll to the bottom of the playlist . There is a " Download All " button with the cloud download icon . Tap and wait . Unfortunately , I do n't believe there is a way to scroll to the bottom in one gesture , so if the playlist is long , you 'll have to repeatedly swipe until you reach the bottom .
Please try it with <URL> , see <URL> in the Videolan wiki .
I had a white MacBook with roughly the same specifics ( except for a 160 GB HD ) and it would n't run so slowly . You can try the following software fixes : Go to System Preferences - > Users and disable unnecessary login items . These items are executed right after login . Go to and disable unnecessary startup items . These items are executed before login , just after boot . This is safe because essential system scripts are not placed there . Do n't touch anything in , instead . Use Activity Monitor and identify third-party daemons and processes that are running in background . Disable/uninstall unnecessary software . Open Console and look for unusual error messages . Clear and . Check and -- if needed -- repair your hard drive . You can do this booting with <URL> . Check and repair permissions with Disk Utility . Go to Dashboard and close unnecessary widgets . Some widgets run in background and use system resources . Only if you know what you 're doing , you could also check third-party kernel extensions . Hardware improvements : Buy a SSD . The spinning hard drive is the greatest bottleneck in modern laptops . If you 're running short of RAM , consider upgrading to 8 GB if your machine supports it ( 4 GB should be enough , though ) .
It keeps holiday music out of my playlists , off my iPhone , until I want to overdose on them from December 24th through 25th every year . For that alone : I love the check box .
How to see iTunes U courses without iTunes iTunes U courses are RSS feeds , so you will need : An RSS reader , either web browser-based , like <URL> ( * ) or <URL> , or standalone , like <URL> . Make sure that in either case it can display H. 264/MPEG -4 videos . ( * ) Google Reader will not be available <URL> . The feed URL , which for the iOS programming course <URL> is : <URL> For example , after subscribing with Google Reader you 'll see a list with links to the course videos : How to obtain the feed URL Neither Standford University nor <URL> publish the feed URL , so you will need iTunes to get it : Open iTunes and look for " Stanford coding together " Select the course and subscribe : Navigate to iTunes U , right click the course and select Copy iTunes U URL :
Some step by step instructions can be found <URL> . After opening Disk Utility : Click the New Image icon Place the contents of folder/directory into the newly created disk image .
No - the playlists only get curated from the playlist tab . The iPods with physical buttons have an " add to playlist " functionality that worked this way but there 's nothing yet in iOS 4 or less to do a similar thing . The drawback there is everything got added to the " on the go " playlist - not an arbitrary one .
You should take a look at <URL> . It can selectively toggle function keys between being regular function keys or the special hardware keys , including the media keys ( F7 , F8 , and F9 ) . Essentially , it does the same thing as " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " setting ( System Preferences > Keyboard ) , except only to individual function keys instead of all of them .
Well , here are a few things : 1 ) That OS X installation disk ( 10.6 ) , will only install Snow Leopard for your 2009 MBP You can not use that disk for OS X installs on other machines 2 ) Generally , the applications disk is nearly useless . Your milage may vary , but I 've never , ever used them . 3 ) Obviously your external drive ( USB you say ? ) will have to have enough space to boot the installation process . I 'd recommend 8 + GB if you will actually use this thing . However , you will only need a usb drive as large as the disk image file that we will create later on . So , lets get started . There are probably guides out there that have more comprehensive answers than this , but I digress . You need to use Disk Utility for the following steps . It should be in your Utilities folder . Put the OS X install disk into your Macbook , while your USB drive is also in the computer . Wipe your USB drive , and reformat it as Mac OS Journaled Create a disk image of the CD , saving it to your computer 's hard drive . Once you have created the disk image , it should be on the left pane of the Disk Utility window . Click on it , then select the ' Restore ' tab to the right . You will want the Source to be the disk image file ( the OS X install disk ) , and the Target to be the USB drive . Let me know how it goes ! Charlie
Search for the App in the iTunes store ( OS X or iOS as appropriate ) and then look for the stars to rate and then write a detailed review . You should be asked to sign in to your Apple ID and you must have purchased the app to write a review . If you received a gift or promotional copy , you might not be able to write a review in some cases . The Write a Review text is below the ScreenShots section so you may need to scroll the content up to see the link to submit a review .
Nope . You wo n't be able to add the in iTunes and thus you wo n't be able to add them to iTunes match .
The 1st sort column is sorted by when the file was added to the playlist . If you can drag them into the playlist in the order you want ... you are set
As they say in the iPhone world , <URL> :-) It 's called <URL> .
end question
start question
Why do I get " no volume available " when using an iPhone 4s in a dock ?
Yet the the dock is designed to just provide charging power and to hold the device , there is no line out on the dock . This is incorrect . The description for this device <URL> ( sorry , I could n't find any information on it that was n't on a for-sale site ) has this feature listed : Built-in , 0.125-inch stereo line-out audio jack lets you attach an audio cable directly to your stereo , or run the included cassette adapter into your stereo 's tape cassette player Apparently the device does have an line out on it some place . And this is why your headphone and volume controls are disabled when you dock your phone in it .
No , you will not be charged . You can re-download them in iTunes or directly on the phone . You 'll have to hit the " buy " button , but after it starts downloading , you should see a message saying you already bought it once . The alert box includes a button to go ahead and re-download the app , which you will then not be charged for .
On your iPhone : Open the app Go to - > Under the section , wait till it shows the list of apps Click on the app you 're interested in to see the App Version , the App Size and the amount of data it has stored on the device . This works only for third party apps . The Apple provided stock apps will not show this information .
The iPhone ( apart from the obvious phone/messaging features ) , will give you an ultra-portable computing device to carry around with you when you are not near your iMac or do n't want to open the Macbook Pro . This will give you the ability to check your emails , browse websites , listen to music , watch podcasts and even record and edit videos . You will also be able to read books and take part in the eco-system of hundreds of thousands of 3rd party applications that available on the Apple App Store . Best of all , because all your devices are from Apple , you benefit from not only knowing how most of these items work and are configured , but the huge benefit of interoperability . You most probably have your music in iTunes already , so you 're music can be synced with your new iPhone . Your web bookmarks are probably already in Safari , so can be synced with Safari on the iPhone .
I guess I was n't that convinced , so I tested this empirically . With TRIM disabled , I nearly filled the disk ( 5 GB left ) over the course of everyday usage . Deleting ~ 50 GB of files , I then tried to create a 50 GB disk image . Results were pretty pathetic - an initial peak at 180 MBps quickly dropping down to average writes of about 15 MBps , the disk clearly stuttering ( showing periods of zero writes where presumably the disk was trying to catch up ) . The file was deleted , and afterwards I <URL> . Again , I tried to create the disk image , and again I got the same results . Finally , after deleting the disk image , I created a disk image for the third time - with freshly TRIM 'd bits . Average performance was 200 MBps and was sustained . So no , FileVault2 does not interfere with TRIM . ( And no , garbage collection is not sufficient , Crucial . )
Yes . The easiest way to do this is to do a full backup of your iPhone 4s via iTunes . Then you would connect the new iPhone to iTunes as well and then do a Restore from the iPhone 4s backup to your new iPhone . Important The iPhone 4s was available in various sizes , namely 8GB , 16GB , 32GB and 64GB . So you will need to ensure that your new iPhone has as a minimum the same capacity as your old one . You should also select the " Encrypt local backup " option as this will " allow account passwords , Health and HomeKit data to be backed up " . Of course , in your specific case , an iPhone 4S does n't have health and home data .
By snooping around in the iPhone simulator app bundle , i came up with this in : It 's higher quality , already has the middle ( screen area ) cleared out , and the aforementioned folder even includes a sprite for the pressed home button
To force the usage of the discrete graphics card in your macbook you can uncheck the automatic graphics switching checkbox in the system preferences / energy saver panel As the message states , this does drain the battery faster . However , your mac should not behave as you describe , I suggest taking it to a service desk so apple can take a look at it , or call apple to ask why it is so choppy .
Turns out there 's a setting in Keyboard Settings . Change to No idea why Yosemite changed that setting from whatever it used to be or if it did n't exist before why they felt the need to change the behavior .
T-Mobile 's 3G/4G coverage for an iPhone 5 is better than a year ago but still limited so you are rolling the dice . They just released a carrier update for the iPhone that will give an iPhone 5 access to some of their 4G network . But it 's still early days and the usefulness will greatly depend on your location . T-Mobile also offers a pay-as-you go plan where talk and text are charged as used and data can be activated on a day-to-day basis . StraightTalk is another option for an unlocked iPhone but is only 3G . $ 45/month for unlimited talk , text , and data . As usual , " unlimited " means " secret limits " that we can arbitrarily use to kick heavy users off . The big advantage of T-Mobile is that you can walk into a T-Mobile store and get it set-up . AT&amp;T is still officially restricting the use of non-contract iPhones on their network and walking into a store will be a bust , but they do n't actively hunt them down so GoPhone is an unofficial option . You have to buy a GoPhone SIM and cut it down to size but it will work . Unofficial and a bit of a PITA but the option exists . You can buy pre-cut cards on Amazon but getting one in a store is a bit trickier . <URL> I suspect this gives 4G/HSPA + and not 4G/LTE .
You were probably switched to the App Store app through a URI scheme . The web page will still be open in Safari . You can either switch back to Safari normally using the home screen or through multitasking .
Removing Dropbox does n't delete its preferences/cache/etc , which is stored in ~ / . dropbox . You can delete this yourself .
You can not at this time . The option to disable 3G no longer exists for the 4S . No word on why Apple disabled the feature . It may be a proactive move to dump old technology as the phone still supports 2G and will switch to the slower network if 3G is not found . There is a rather <URL> regarding this matter on Apple 's forums .
This would make scrolling up ( or dragging up with two fingers ) over an icon show app Exposé :
Go to and then turn and then the . That will reset the dock .
If you setup your Gmail account as IMAP , it is not pushed . If you setup your Gmail account as an Exchange account , then it will be . The instructions on how to do this are found on <URL> . Hope this helps .
The default key bindings are stored in . You can use to convert the file to an XML format , like so : Or , if you have Xcode or Property List Editor , you can open it there . In addition , you can add your own bindings system-wide to , or per-user to . <URL> has a nice overview of bindings . I 've grown particularly fond of Transpose ( ⌃ - T ) , which swaps the two letters to the left and right of your cursor , fixing my most common kind of typo quickly . In addition , there are various additional tricks using the ⌥ and ⌘ keys : ⌘ - ← and → move to the beginning or end of the line . Add ⇧ to select everything in between . ⌘ - ↑ and ↓ move to the beginning or end of the document . Add ⇧ to select everything in between . ⌥ - ← and → move to the beginning or end of the word , or between multiple words . Add ⇧ to select everything in between . ⌥ - ↑ and ↓ move to the beginning or end of the paragraph . Add ⇧ to select everything in between .
Yet the the dock is designed to just provide charging power and to hold the device , there is no line out on the dock . This is incorrect . The description for this device <URL> ( sorry , I could n't find any information on it that was n't on a for-sale site ) has this feature listed : Built-in , 0.125-inch stereo line-out audio jack lets you attach an audio cable directly to your stereo , or run the included cassette adapter into your stereo 's tape cassette player Apparently the device does have an line out on it some place . And this is why your headphone and volume controls are disabled when you dock your phone in it .
It 's not possible to connect it to a Mac . The <URL> says that it 's only compatible with the iPad . Note that the full product name is " iPad Keyboard Dock " . Here are some ways you can use the iPad Keyboard Dock , though : Connect the dock to your computer with the USB cable included with your iPad to sync iPad and charge its battery . Connect the dock to an electrical outlet using the iPad 10W USB Power Adapter ( included with your iPad ) to charge the iPad battery . Use the dock to hold your iPad at the perfect angle to compose email and notes using the keyboard or to watch your favorite videos or photo slideshows . Connect the dock to a TV or video projector using a compatible cable such as the iPad Dock Connector to VGA Adapter or the Apple Component or Composite AV Cable . Connect the dock to a stereo or speakers using an AV cable or a stereo audio cable to play music from iPad .
No , the iPhone 4S has an 8mp camera . The prior iPhone 4 had a 5mp camera though . But , yes , the older iPad had a much worse camera - less than 1mp . This would seem to show it 's from the iPhone 4 : <URL> Megapixels are n't everything - but the new iPad certainly has the best camera in an iPad so far . The front facing camera is n't that great though , even with the rear one hugely improved .
end question
start question
Can I remove the clip of the iPod nano 6G ?
It 's very tricky . You have to disassemble the whole iPod nano as the <URL> shows . This is a picture taken from the second last step :
According to <URL> , an Apple spokesman stated that the touch-screen iPod Nano does not run iOS .
The iPod nano and classic iPods get loaded a custom firmware that could be downloaded from the internet and possibly loaded with a tool other than iTunes , but on a PC you could easily use whatever disk tool you want to erase the drive by reformatting it . Since this would render the device unbootable , you will not want to sell it to a user that 's not familiar with why it 's not working , so the elegant solution would be to rent another computer with iTunes and restore it . Apple 's retail stores usually will even loan you a cable to restore your device from any of the display Macs . iTunes on a new computer would want to erase all the content anyhow - so going another step to wipe and restore the device will leave a clean slate and you might even be able to sync some demo content to the device depending on how iTunes is set up in the store you visit .
You can delete the stocks app from your phone on iOS 10 - and that removes it from the watch . There is n't a way to have it on the phone but not on the watch . There were currently no workarounds , jailbreaks or non-obvious ways hide and minimize the stocks app on the Apple Watch apps display on iOS 9 and associated watch OS . The rest of this answer applies if you can not upgrade to iOS 10 and watchOS 3 . Consider making a long tail arrangement of apps placing the ones you do n't want to see to the end of the line . In practice , you 'll see the few apps centered around the clock face central point of the graph .
Since <URL> you could use a cronjob to just clear the file every now and then . For that you will need the Terminal . If you are not familiar , <URL> . Use the following command to open the crontab file ( just call if you want to use vim instead ) : Insert the following and save the file ( with Ctrl-X - > y - > enter ) . You must change the file to the log file Let me explain : means that on every full hour the command will be executed ( unless it 's turned off of course ) . See <URL> for more info . The command being executed is basically saying " redirect nothing to the file " effectively truncating it to 0 bytes . You may recognize it from . FYI : The cron daemon will automatically be started by launchd if a cronfile exists .
You can easily check the model of the device using information found in Settings > General > About and a simple Google search . . Open the Settings app and select General . From the General * pane select * About . Scroll down in the About pane until you find the Model . Type the model number into a Google search box . That should be sufficient , but you can add additional search terms like Apple or iPod Touch if need be .
Based on your updated question , the answer is no ; there 's not a standard , built-into iOS way to go to the end of a file . Individual apps are able to create custom gestures or menu commands to perform that function , so it might exist in specific apps but there 's no standard way that works with every app .
I just got the iPod Nano 6th generation , and was able to plug it into my <URL> via dock connector without any problems . So , I think the 6th generation iPod dock connector is not different from the 5th generation at all . ( The Altec Lansing IMT325 says on the box that it works with iPod Nano 3rd to 5th generation , which led to my original question . )
Unless you 're willing to jailbreak your only option is talk to your company 's administrator . That policy is indeed enforced by the company , but maybe you 're lucky and the responsible did it without caring too much about it . Anyways ... For changing the policy , try starting <URL> . For removing the policy with jailbreak , you 'll have to <URL> . If you your Hit Points are below zero , <URL> . ( joking )
To remove Firefox.app : Login with an administrator account You get the same result by just dragging the Firefox app from / Applications / to the trash . If the crashes continue after reinstalling , deleting preferences and support files in the user library may help :
Nope . The glowing Apple on your MacBook Pro is actually illuminated by the backlight of your screen as well . So you ca n't turn it off as long as you have your screen lighted on . Your best bet is probably to put a sticker on it .
No there is n't . Pretty much the point of iPhoto is that it treats the original file as a " digital negative " and the non-destructive editing feature is based on that . So , iPhoto ( and Aperture ) never perform any operations on the Original , only on a copy . It does n't make multiple versions , tho . There 's only one edited version . What you can do : Export the Edited Versions . Delete the photos from iPhoto . Re-import the edited versions . You 'll lose a lot - not least the ability to edit non-destructively - but if that 's what you want . A better solution is to use an app that does what you want - that is , edit the pics directly . You know that you can store an entire iPhoto Library on a disk formatted Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) ?
According to the <URL> , the fourth generation iPod touch supports 802.11 b/g/n on the 2.4 GHz band . The first through third generations support 802.11 b/g , while the fifth generation supports 802.11 a/b/g / n on both the 2.4 and 5GHz bands .
You can change this in " System Preferences " - > " Mouse " This change actually happened from <URL> with the introduction of Natural Scrolling to match iOS scrolling behavior where the motion is expected to work on the content - not the scroll indicator - as the two move in opposite directions .
Usually apps do n't place themselves in the dock without your consent or knowledge . There are a couple ways to put them there though . Perhaps you may not realize it , but it may be one of these reasons : The App Store will place an app in the Dock upon installation . Note : Lion will not do this though ; it simply places it in Launchpad . The App Store will place an app in the Dock upon updating an app . Note : Updating an non-docked app individually via the updates tab is when it gets re-placed in the dock . However using the ' Update All ' button at the top of the page will not do any such thing . Again , this is changed in Lion . If you run an app that is not kept in the dock and drag it to another position anywhere on the dock , it will stay in the dock Drag an app into the dock from Finder Right click an app in the dock an under options select ' Keep in Dock '
Yes . The " location services " work the same way on all iOS devices , while the specifics of how that data is obtained are hidden from the application . This Apple support article might be helpful to you : <URL>
Yes - I had to do this for the same devices : 2G to 4G . I think I just synced the new iPod Touch ( there is no such thing as an iTouch ) with iTunes , and everything went over , but I might have had to restore a backup from the old to the new .
Turns out the real problem is when I sync with Foobar . Looks like I 'm stuck with iTunes .
It 's good for avoiding tangles when you 're not using your earbuds , or when you are using them , from preventing you from tearing your earbuds . ( When you 're jogging or whatever . ) That extra clip is the first thing to give when you pull them apart . If that was n't there , the next thing to pull would be the splitter . Then you 'd have half a pair of earbuds .
There is no easy way to do this , but there is a little hack :) Navigate to / System/Library/CoreServices / Dock.app / Contents/Resources / Backup DockMenus.plist Open DockMenus.plist in your favorite text editor with root access Find section and add new sub-section or just <URL> my version of DockMenus.plist In plist editor file should look like this : Open Terminal and run . Right click on Finder icon in Dock - Bingo ! p.s After Dock restart ( manual relaunch or mac reboot ) you need manually remove Finder icon from Dock
end question
