start question
Publishing PhD thesis at another university due to not being able to afford high publishing costs ?
Emphatically , I do n't see how this could happen in any subject in the U.S. , nor , to my knowledge , in Europe , though I understand that there , in some cases , the actual work can be viewed as somewhat disconnected from a university . But the point is that , in most subjects in the U.S. , for example , one is not required to " publish " one 's thesis in any fashion that would incur great expense . A handful of required copies , often printed nearly-for-free , and everything else is optional . Not " page costs " to journals , for example . Further , in the U.S. , it would be essentially impossible to " change universities " for any reason whatsoever , without re-doing many required activities , time-in-residency , and such . So whatever other advantages , there 'd be something like a two-year delay , tuition , other things . I really think that the question 's hypotheses are iffy , possibly due to a misunderstanding of how things work . Certainly in the U.S. , most likely in Europe , and I 'd be surprised to hear that the questions implicit assumptions made sense anywhere in the world ( though I 'd certainly be interested to hear about such a thing ) .
Like everybody else is saying : Just Ask . And do it sooner rather later . Telling a university that you have an offer already will signal that other schools ' further along in the process think you 're great . And anyway , you have absolutely nothing to lose by asking . If they want you , they 're not going to think it 's annoying and will be afraid that will lose you to your other offer . If they do n't want you , asking ca n't hurt . If they are on the fence , a signal that you 're admittable will only help .
In addition to the other answers , there is a perverse effect to local hiring : a professor can promise to her PhD students/postdocs a permanent position later on , which in turn tends to " tie " the student/postdoc to her professor , perhaps preventing her to develop her own research agenda , and doing more administrative/teaching/supervision tasks than normally required ( to basically look good in the eyes of the advisor ) . This then builds a stack of postdocs , waiting for the next permanent position , which would be awarded not to the best candidate , but to the one who has waited long enough . Of course , I 'm on purpose exaggerating the description , and this is no way can be generalised : many , if not most professors will actually recruit the best possible candidate , local or not . But I have observed this behaviour several times , in different countries , and although forbidding local recruitment would n't solve every problem , it would perhaps solve that one .
No . I work at a university that focuses almost exclusively on research ( we have only graduate students , most of whom are Ph.D. students , and the number of postdocs , research staff , etc. is approximately equal to the number of students ) . A few faculty members are well known as excellent teachers , and a few are commonly known to be poor teachers . In general , I do n't think the distinction has very much influence on the respect accorded to each within the university ( and even less in the larger academic community ) . But I think the good teachers are better liked , both by their peers and the administration . I certainly appreciate it when I find that students are well prepared thanks to having taken a course with a " good " teacher . And bad teachers are occasionally so bad that they cause administrative problems , which makes everyone unhappy . Part of each faculty member 's annual review is an evaluation of his/her teaching ( by the dean ) . A positive review is definitely a good thing .
Much of the answer on this question is dependent on the <URL> and the specific policies of the journal . Here is a <URL> . Among authors , the topic of <URL> . What consequences are typically enforced : According to <URL> , However , even this action is somewhat limited , as academia.edu received a peak of 2,800 requests over a few week span for a site that hosts over 2.3 million journal articles . Remember : As Bledsoe points out , this is still murky territory . Publishers , journals , and scholars are all feeling their way around . Possible extent of consequences : When an author agrees to publication from a publisher , the publisher receives not only the words and graphics , but also ( sometimes ) the copyright from the author . If the publication required a copyright transfer , a copyright violation is being committed by uploading a published paper , even by the author of the paper . The possible consequences are as diverse as typical copyright violations , but can be up to and including paying money to the publisher for loss of revenue . Money damages in copyright infringement actions are commonly awarded under three legal theories , actual damages , profits , and statutory damages . Source for <URL> .
When it comes to typographic design , it can be dangerous to adhere to rules of thumb . Sometimes ( actually most of the time ) sans-serif fonts work , sometimes they do n't . It would depend on tradition , trend , and overall feeling that the fonts project . If the journal does not specify . I would usually favor sans-serif . The reason is that unlike my texts , I am not always sure how much the editorial team may size down my illustration . Sans-serif has a pretty good property that they are quite resistant to shrinking , and can still be legible at relatively small size . In the mean time , if the publisher uses any software to smooth out the edge of the fonts after resizing ( e.g. through <URL> , ) serif fonts can sometimes appear broken at their thinner strokes . There are , however , some illustrations that just do n't look right with sans-serif . For instance , line labels and angle labels of trigonometry problem sets and formula like <URL> are much nicer with bold and/or italicized serif fonts , monotone ink-drawn anatomical charts ( like <URL> ) will just look very odd if we put on sans-serif labels . This <URL> describing Shakespeare 's Life may look ridiculous if sans-serif fonts are used . In those difficult situations , look for serif fonts that are beefier or with more uniform stroke width . As they can likely withstand shrinking and aliasing . In addition , look for fonts that are slightly wider , and have a good " x-height " ( literally height of the font " x " ) . Some possible candidates are <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . Avoid cursive fonts , or fonts with some very thin lines like <URL> . A more in-depth discussion on squint-free fonts can be found <URL> and this <URL> .
( I will quote a <URL> by <URL> and a <URL> by <URL> . ) You have got three qualities of the thesis production : good , cheap , fast . You can choose two . Hiring a LaTeX specialist is good ( if you find a good one ) , fast ( if you find a good one ) but expensive -- typesetting a 100-page thesis can take around 20 -- 30 hours of work , easily more depending on the text , on the person you work with , on the amount of discussion about the appearance , proofreading etc. . Making it yourself is cheap . However , unless you are Jarod from the Pretender series or you know LaTeX already , it can not be both good and fast . Of course , making it yourself is better in moving your LaTeX skills forward , but I do not think this is crucial for an academic career , surely it is not more crucial than submitting a quality thesis in time . People hire services of all kinds , you get grant-writing , typesetting , conference organization , IT , etc. -- very various kind of out-sourced services for which someone can say : " A good researcher has to be able to do this . " To answer your question about LaTeX services : I doubt universities have , in general , such services themselves . Some have a LaTeX theses class ( of varying quality ) , some even do not have this . However , there are independent LaTeX consults and consulting companies . I ca n't list any since ( 1 ) I do n't know them and ( 2 ) this is not an advertising site . However , remember that these people are highly specialized , and the prices of their services reflect this .
Traditionally , affiliation address must be where the research has been conducted therein ( this is the statement given by some scholarly journals in Guide for Authors ) . Professors normally use their official affiliation for any publication/presentation even if their university has not supported that research . Probably , because their secured salaries let them to work on an external project . This is different for graduate students , but still can be applied . In any case , nothing stops you for using both affiliations in your poster . Normally , a graduate student is gaining credit from his/her affiliation . Then , two affiliations can be indicative of your research potential , as you have not stuck to your academic project .
I 've never heard of a publication requirement for a masters degree in the USA or UK . There is not even a novelty requirement for a masters dissertation , that 's what makes it different from a PhD . Obviously publishing is a good idea if you want to continue on to a PhD , it makes your CV look much stronger and shows your promise as a researcher . But frankly , in the UK at least there is no time to publish before you finish your dissertation ( Masters degrees are very compressed one year degrees ) and most publications follow the formal completion of the degree .
Acceptability is in the eye of the beholder . You can not get this " right " for two reasons : Different scientific communities have conflicting opinions about about the credibility of various publication venues . Even " good " venues publish rubbish papers . Some important papers are published as white papers or technical reports , and will not appear on any list of journals . To my eyes , the real question is not about what the " right " value is , but about how the boundary that you draw will affect the conclusions of your systematic review . For example , if you are attempting to perform a meta-analysis on the data within other data sets , then you just need a wide enough scope to be sure to get good statistical validity . Therefore , if your topic is well-studied , you can probably restrict yourself to only those publications listed in some field-appropriate major database , e.g. , PubMed for biomedical literature , DBLP for computer science . It does n't really matter which one , because you 're not actually going for comprehensiveness , just for sufficient sampling , and it 's more important to get well-curated data than all data . Moreover , the bad publications in the dataset are expected to be drowned out be the good ones in your data processing . On the other hand , if you are attempting to summarize all of the credible thinking regarding a topic , then you would want to set a much broader criteria , e.g. , any journal or conference with at least 5 years of publication history and not on <URL> . In this case , you can be so generous because you are going to be using a lot more personal discretion in deciding how much weight to give each paper and interesting thinking may turn up in obscure places . These are the two main cases that I typically see for systematic review ; for other cases , you may need to adjust or pick other strategies . In all cases , however , the guiding principle is a ) there is no " right " answer , and b ) your choice should be driven by the effects it will have on your review .
Whether your institution plans to put it online is a question you have to ask them . Whether they are allowed to put it online depends on the policies of the journal where it was published . You will need to read the copyright transfer agreement that you accepted when the paper was published .
I also have a very common name ( usually quoted along the lines of " Smith , J. " ) and despite the fact that I have worked and published with two different institutions there has never been a problem assigning all my papers to me personally ( ORCID and other system let you take your institution ( s ) into account ) . As long as there is n't a person with the same first and last name in your institution ( and even then , it usually a couple of clicks to rectify the situation and I am speaking of someone who had to contend with a Joan/John Smith situation ) . My university makes all researchers from post doc onwards keep a list of their publications on their official university homepage , so even google will associate my publications correctly . So if you come across a paper from my old affiliation you can get my current contact data from this . And honestly most subfields are specialised enough that people roughly know that John Smith at institution A is working on a certain topic ( because that 's what your group does ) and John Smith at institution B will probably not have published a particular paper . If people want to talk to your about your results , they will find you , even with a common name .
You can take a more birds-eye view of the question . Recall that the main purpose of the NSF is to support part of the public policy interests of the U.S. government . Here is a quote from " <URL> " : NSF 's goals -- discovery , learning , research infrastructure and stewardship -- provide an integrated strategy to advance the frontiers of knowledge , cultivate a world-class , broadly inclusive science and engineering workforce and expand the scientific literacy of all citizens , build the nation 's research capability through investments in advanced instrumentation and facilities , and support excellence in science and engineering research and education through a capable and responsive organization . As the NSF says on the same page , We fulfill our mission chiefly by issuing limited-term grants -- currently about 11,000 new awards per year , with an average duration of three years -- to fund specific research proposals that have been judged the most promising by a rigorous and objective merit-review system . It is true that indirect costs on a grant do n't directly support costs of research - that 's why they 're " indirect costs " . But they do support the national research infrastructure by passing additional funding to institutions that show merit by winning competitive grant funding . The indirect funding helps these institutions provide a research environment not only to the researchers who are awarded grants , but also to other researchers and students . Supporting the overall national research infrastructure is certainly a reasonable part of the public policy goals of the NSF , and the indirect costs system is not the worst way I can think of to decide which institutions will receive such funding . Of course , there are also equipment grants and other specialized NSF grants , which also help support the national research capacity .
Copyright protects published texts and images , not the underlying ideas . A concept such as a " Fourier transform " can not be copyrighted , no matter how it 's written or described . However , what you can not do is republish the material that 's been put under copyright without obtaining permission , or demonstrating a clear fair-use case . For instance , one or two short , relevant quotations that are properly cited in a 50-page manuscript will not get you into trouble . Reprinting larger amounts or more complicated material ( tables , graphics , etc. ) , however , should be done via a copyright request to the publisher . You can not reprint the text of problems that have been published elsewhere ( unless , of course , it 's sufficiently generic that it could be found in multiple books . For instance , the following text would not likely be copyrightable : Prove that a connected open subset of R ^ n is pathwise connected . for the reason that there is no " unique " or " original " content here ; literally any book in the field could pose the same problem in exactly the same way . However , a longer , more detailed statement of the problem , guiding you through specific steps , would probably not be publishable . On the other hand , the solution of such problems , so long as they represent independent scholarly work , need not be " suppressed . " Again , copyright applies to the authors ' wording of the solutions of the problems ; the method for solving them can not be copyrighted ! If you solve them yourself , and publish your own solutions , that 's not violating copyright . ( There is the issue of making the lives of future students easier , because you 're publishing solutions online that they could plagiarize from , but that 's a separate issue from if you 're allowed to publish such material . )
Yes . The affiliation serves two purposes : acknowledgement and identification . Even if it is not part of your thesis research , if you are receiving resources of any kind from your institution , you should list them as your affiliation . These resources include money ( whether directly related to your research or not ) , computing equipment , internet access , printer access , electricity , phones , faculty and student colleagues ( whether coauthors or not ) , library access ( either physical or electronic ) , whiteboards , local coffee shops/bars , and the general intellectual atmosphere that encourages you to do research in the first place . You can afford to be generous . Also , the affiliation helps identify you as an author , especially if you have a common name , or you publish other papers with the same affiliation .
The United Nations University does not really work as a normal university , but rather as a research center . The difference is that they recruit students from developing countries as for a period that can go from several months to a year , in order to make them work on concrete research projects , so that they can gain experience ( which can help them to apply for a Master of PhD program somewhere else ) . For instance , this a <URL> for students at the UNU-IIST ( International Institute for Software Technology ) . Note that the UNU-IIST also plan to offer a joint <URL> with the University of Pisa . Note also that it seems that each institute of the UNU is to some extent independent , so maybe other institutes provide more academic programs . So , to answer your questions , technically speaking there are students at the UNU ( when I was working at the UNU-IIST , there were something between 10 and 20 students ) , but they are not " enrolled " by the UNU , it 's more like some kind of internship .
It is absolutely fine to contact current PhD students of programs and departments that you are interested in . On an average , I get about 1 email of this sort everyday and I make my best effort to reply intelligently . Keep in mind though that many PhD students will simply not reply to your email . Sometimes folks are inundated by too many emails and commitments to respond to any additional emails and sometimes people just have bad emailing tendencies in general .
I think the question here hinges upon how specific the book title is . If you could not repeat book titles , there would be hundreds if not thousands of calculus and organic chemistry courses in violation , for instance . However , if the title of the book in question is Sprockets and Doohickeys : A History of Widgets in 20th Century Television , you might want to find an alternate title do the course . Technically it 's not a copyright violation , but it does betray a lack of independent thought on the part of the instructor in a specialized course .
Many university mental health centers have PhD-only group therapy programs . These often focus on stress and anxiety . They will be proctored by a professional counselor but are designed to be a space where graduate students can help each other . The benefit is two-fold - you get to talk to people who are in grad school in your university , perhaps in a similar field or program . You 'd be surprised how similar some issues are regardless of field of study ( research falling behind , concern about funding , conflicts with PIs/advisers , etc. ) . But in group therapy you are able to work through issues in an explicitly private space . If you are having a serious issue , it may be good to start here rather than within your department . I 'd say that is any grievance you air to someone within your department has the chance to spread .
Based on our work with them , it seems to be a high quality publication . We published a JoVE article last year and several of the protocols we use in the lab are adapted from other JoVE articles . So it seems effective in its mission . The video format really works for certain protocols , and it may make it easier for people to reproduce your work ( thereby getting you more citations ) . That said , there is the price tag to consider , and the editorial process is extensive and time consuming ( you write an article , then go through normal peer review , then work with them to turn it into a screenplay , then get everyone together with the videographer they provide , etc. ) . So I would say that if your method does not specifically benefit from the video format , there is n't an advantage over a conventional methods journal . As far as how it 's received , I have n't noticed any differences from any other small journal .
end question
start question
what does [ citation ] mean in google scholar search results ?
[ Citation ] means that Google Scholar has not been able to find a source for the publication , but that it has inferred that it exists because other publications cite it . Taken directly from Google Scholar help " These are articles which other scholarly articles have referred to , but which we have n't found online . To exclude them from your search results , uncheck the " include citations " box on the left sidebar . "
There is actually an entire field dedicated to answering the question about how to measure scholarly impact . Two indices that you could probably compute by hand in a little bit of time are the h-index and the g-index . <URL> <URL> Also , if you are an author thinking about submitting a draft , and looking for a good journal in your field , one place to look is on Google Scholar . Go to scholar.google.com , then click on ` metrics ' . Google has auto calculated the h-index and g-index for the last five years of a lot of different journals in different fields . Generally speaking journals with higher h or g numbers are going to be better places to publish . ( Not an ironclad rule , so check with a trusted advisor before sending something out , but a good rule of thumb ) If you are an editor of a journal and you want your journal indexed , then just write to the editor of Journal Citation Reports and ask about the process to be included . Be prepared for a lengthy wait though . <URL>
In addition to sending an e-mail to the journal , as suggested already , you should check the most common academic databases such as Scopus and Web of Knowledge/Science and submit corrections to them so that they pick up the citation correctly . They have a form to submit this kind of corrections automatically ; it will then take a few weeks to apply them . People often ( way too often , actually ) rely on these databases to measure the performance of academics , so it is important that they do n't miss any of your citations .
Since you ask those questions , I assume you are relatively new to CS research . I do not know if you have previous research experience in any other scientific area , but let 's assume you are new to research all together . Correct me if I am wrong . When your paper gets rejected , the feeling of rejection sucks . It sucks a lot . But in research you have to deal with this rejection and move-on . It does not matter if other people 's works that you consider worse have been accepted . Maybe they are better than yours maybe not . But that is really irrelevant . Focus on your work and how to improve it . The questions you should be asking : Is this problem you are trying to solve interesting ? Is your solution substantially better than previous state-of-the-art ? Are you certain that you described related and recent literature thoroughly ? Are you up-to-date on related literature ? Did you make clear the benefits on your approach ? Is your paper well presented and written ? Have you explained your approach thoroughly ( with pseudocode , figures ) and not just with words ? Were your experiments thorough ? Did you use many datasets for your experiments ? Have you used the datasets that the related papers use or at least similar if not bigger in size and scope ? Have you compared your results with previous approaches ? Have you many charts demonstrating the various aspects of your solution ? Have you advertised your work by finding many test-cases for your problem ? If any of those answer is NO , then you must turn them to YES , before resubmitting your work . You must understand that if your paper or the problem you try to solve is boring , then it gets rejected . It is as simple as that . In that cases , the most usual reason for rejection is " not enough contribution " . So , probably it is also your presentation that needs to be fixed . Also , it seems rather strange that although you are probably new to research , you have submitted two papers at the same time . Perhaps this is too ambitious and it would be better to focus on one of them , improve it and resubmit it . Perhaps , they should be sent to different venues that are more tailored for each one of them . And last but not least . Do not worry . It gets better with time . Both the way you handle rejection and the way you write papers . So , improve what needs to be fixed and everything will work out .
As @vadim123 said in the comment , this is to estimate the size of the special issue . If it were too small , the journal may decide to : make a very small special issue ; join special issues from two conferences into one ; cancel the special issue and propose acceptance of the paper through a standard process . If the special issue is too large , they would typically make it into a supplement . What should you do ? Reply yes or no for your participation in the special issue , and if yes , then the estimated length , like : " We 'll provide the full proofs while in the 10-page extended abstract there were obly sketches , it 'll be circa 20 pages long . " If they wanted more information , they would have asked for it explicitly .
Writing an expository piece is not a research activity . Research activity in general refers to original research with things like systematic reviews and meta analysis falling into a gray area .
This exact question has been asked at Webapps Stack Exchange : <URL> Quoting from the ( unaccepted ) answer there : Unfortunately there is n't an option to restrict results like that in Google Scholar ( I appreciate the idea , running into paywalls is very frustrating ) . I guess the argument could be made that you are limiting the articles/knowledge you could be exposed to be only looking at the free things . That and Google 's recognition of what is accessible is n't 100 % . See <URL> for more information .
A very good site for CS conferences and journals call for papers and their respective deadlines is <URL> .
The interaction between student and professor should not be a one-shot set-a-problem . Instead , they should be talking frequently , often once a week , and adjusting the nature and direction of the project based on what is being learned during it . The project starts with some idea , from either the professor or the student , that the professor thinks likely to lead to an appropriate outcome within the available time . As time goes on , the student should come to learn more about the project than the professor , and be reporting progress or lack of progress . The professor should be continuously evaluating whether the current line will lead to a good result , and encouraging redirection if not . I am sure my doctoral dissertation was not at all what my advisor would have expected when I started on the project - it was a result of things I learned during it .
I would construe " scientific report " here to encompass all forms of scientific publication and communication , including peer-reviewed papers as well as possibly internal technical reports . Remember that a technical report is just something that has n't gone through peer review . The exception would be if this were for a corporate position , where publication may be more difficult . In such cases , one would expect " grey literature " to be the primary " publication " mode .
It is still an open question whether open access actually leads to <URL> or <URL> . This is at least partly because the models and players in OA are still rapidly shifting , especially with the rapidly increasing influx of low quality or scam publishers who have embraced open access because it is an easier way to bilk money out of insecure early-career academics . I will assume , however , that you have already vetted the journal and know that it is a significant and reputable one in your field . Let us also assume that it really is just as you present : the article will still be published in exactly the same way , just not behind a paywall and this will cost you nothing . In that case , the general wisdom is that , all else being equal , an article that 's easier to find and read is likely to have higher impact than one hidden behind a paywall . Free open access in a normally closed journal is actually less unusual than you might think . For example : Nature makes <URL> open by default . Special issues and special collections in a journal are sometimes negotiated to be open access by their organizers . If your article fits with such an upcoming collection , it would be natural for it to become included in the policy . Certain types of information , particularly in biomedical research , are required to be published open access ( either immediately or within certain timeframes ) by some government funding agencies The real question is : what is the reason in your particular case ? Ask the editor . If it 's something that makes sense , like one of the cases above , then great ! Embrace it and get some extra citations . If not , then ask yourself again whether you really trust this journal ...
In part it means that the conference organizers have access to the conference administration tools and resources that IEEE , ACM , or the like provide . Having been around some IEEE-sponsored conferences , that can mean things like payment processing and credit card handling ; access to a journal special issue for proceedings ; conference organization website for registration , submissions , and reviewing ; and registration discounts for members of the society . Access to these features does n't come for free . The professional societies charge for their use and stand to make money on them . As such , while you have to propose the conference and get it approved , after that the oversight is less . The quality of a conference comes down to the Organizing Committee and it 's technical/content/papers committee . If you 've never heard of any of the members of these committees , or many of them appear to have low-quality papers , there 's a good chance that the conference is n't all that great .
To be short , yes . According to the <URL> , it means ' see the index ' . It basically tells you to refer the index section and look for the topic that is discussed in the context where it is cited . Note : This question was asked in both Academia.SE and English.SE to benefit both communities as there is n't a single standard dictionary that could be found online to define this term . Credits go to the <URL> in English.SE for answering my post .
As of August 31 , 2016 , this functionality has been added ! See this blog post : <URL>
Following multiple authors ( or journals , or documents , or keywords ) is in my view , much easier using a saved search rather than ' following ' multiple different authors : " A. A. Author 1 " OR " B. B. Author 2 " OR " C. C. Author 3 " and so on . That way , you can pack as many authors in as you like which avoids restrictions ( but there will probably be a search string limit somewhere ) . Also , you wo n't receive two separate emails about the same paper if it contains two authors you follow . Reducing the number of alerts to one per category ( authors , documents , sources ) also cuts down on the emails you will receive . Personally I use Scopus to do this . I have an author alert and also a journal alert . The reason I use Scopus is because authors and sources are assigned a unique ID which makes it more precise . Simply edit the alert to add/remove authors/journals/documents when the need arises . I keep a list of the authors and sources that are currently inside the alerts , with their associated Scopus code , so I can easily swap out or add if I need to . In Gmail ( where my institutional email is redirected ) , I have labels set up for ' Author Alerts ' or ' Journal Alerts ' etc. . Keeps everything tidy and separated from personal stuff .
The answer to your question is probably " Yes and No " or , more properly , it depends on who is telling you this and why . If the individual wants you to find his or her research , then " in Nature " might mean in Nature . However , if someone wants you to find research , why are n't they giving you a full citation ? Usually someone would say their work is published " in Nature " to make themselves sound important ( sometimes rightfully so ) . In this case , I doubt that the individual would make a distinction between Nature and the derivative journals , most of which also have high impact factors . The person is more likely to be vague if the field-specific NPG journal in which the work is published has a much lower impact factor than Nature . In the field of chemistry , Nature Chemistry is relatively new , 4 years old . Since NChem is so new , most folks I talk to distinguish whether they mean Nature or NChem . NChem 's newness leaves it with a lower impact factor ( 20.524 for 2011 , the first year it qualified for one ) vs. Nature ( 36.280 in 2011 ) .
Contribution to knowledge means creating new knowledge based on the previous available knowledge by doing extensive and innovative research . Look up this related illustrative post by <URL> on what is a PhD . And for the said MS student , he should get his degree without any problem , because he showed a new &amp; original application of the CS algorithm in a new field . Hence , new knowledge generated .
In Germany , access to universities is regulated by the Numerus Clausus system , which basically says that the number of students admitted to any given programme at a university can be either unrestricted or restricted to a fixed number of students . For an unrestricted programme , students just need to fulfill the basic formal criteria ( they need a german Abitur , or an equivalent ) . For most restricted programmes on bachelor level , prospective students need to apply and are then ranked based solely on their Abitur grades ( plus a few exceptions for corner cases , foreign students with no german Abitur , etc. ) . For restricted master level programmes , many universities ( including , apparently , TU Kaiserslautern , as linked by the original poster above ) have adopted a more US-style admission system , which is based not only on previous grades but also on letters of recommendation , statements of interest , interviews , etc. . TU Kaiserslautern also has its selection procedure <URL> . This will vary per university , though . Edit : to answer your subquestion ( which I happened to have missed the first time around ) : Do German universities discriminate students on the basis of their age ? No , not in general , and certainly not officially .
Here you go : prof is short for professor . dr is short for doctor , which signifies either MD or PhD . dr. h. c. stands for doctoratus honoris causa , which is an honorary title . ir stands for engineer ( ingenieur ) . In this case it means a professor ( with a PhD ) with an engineering background , who got an honorary title at some point .
You have a compilation to scientific research referencing websites and networks , and some links to further information , <URL> ( post in spanish language , with automatic transation available ) .
end question
start question
My paper was accepted in Springer International Conference and National conference . What to do ?
The only thing you can really do here is to contact the organizers and publishers of both journals , and indicate what is going on . More likely than not , you will need to withdraw one of the papers , as publishing both papers under very similar titles with identical scientific content ( or very nearly so ) is considered inappropriate .
Whether or not it 's technically legally acceptable , I would find it extremely gauche to post a publication online before it has been made available by the venue where it is scheduled for appear . Thus , for conferences I wait until the date of the conference , and for journals I wait until the " online early " copy appears . Now , if your publication is also compatible with an alternate means of publication , like arXiv or a tech report at your institution , I would find it completely reasonable to post a version up that way , citing that , and then later update the links and citation information when the " official " version comes out .
From what I 've heard the NSF fellowship is not an easy one to get , and having one seems to carry some sort of prestige . Sure , the program may have accepted you on the ground that they do n't have to pay you , but the fact that you have an NSF fellowship may have changed the admission committee 's perception of your ability , which could be what tipped the balance in your favour . No matter what , there is no point in dwelling on the past . What matters is how you perform in the program now , not how you got in . Do n't be the college freshman who keeps talking about his high school athletic achievement ; truth be told , nobody cares . As for your lack of passion for the subject , I want to point out that passion usually does not precede mastery of a subject . Rather , people usually develop passion after they become good at something . So I do n't really think lacking passion at this point is a deal breaker . I 'm sure astrophysics is large enough for you to find something that you are good at and can develop a passion for . Of course , if you ca n't see yourself doing research , teaching , or anything science-related in the future , you might want to rethink about your decision to go to graduate school in the first place .
Keeping in time is mandatory In general , you can expect to be cut off if you are over the time limit , so you definitely should shorten your presentation - it 's very likely that important parts of your talk are at the end so it 's very important not to lose the ending ! In most fields , presentations are very , very different from the actual content of the paper - if someone wants to read the paper , they can do so at any time ; but the presentation should cover why they 'd want to read your paper afterwards and also explain things that might be easier to show or demonstrate rather than read about . Even if in your field tradition is to read the paper as-is , that is optional but keeping the schedule is mandatory . I would suggest to reduce some parts that describe the background/foundation/earlier results which would be known by the conference attendees but might be less known for a general reader of your paper . You should mention earlier work , but you do n't need to go into detail about that even if you do so in your paper . Keep the focus of your talk on the novel parts of your paper , and also make sure cover in detail the motivation of this research and it 's wider context in your field .
It would seem that you should contact the organizing committee of the conference and get their advice . To me it seems kind of low to write papers that have very similar content but it does happen . If you are questioning it that much I would bring it up with the Organizing Committee and see what they say . You do n't even have to mention names or specifics but just get their general opinion .
The main reason for fees is that there is a cost for renting the auditoriums and perhaps other services ( refreshments , facilities etc. ) . Under such circumstances all participants need to pay to support the conference . Exactly how the pricing is done differs widely but in most cases it is based on costs divided by a certain number of projected participants in different categories . There are conferences which I have attended that seem horrendously expensive and are held in luxurious places with organizing services and then there are those run by a smaller society where making a cheap efficient meeting for the members by the members is a priority . In all cases you pay just to get in . So pricing will vary depending on venue and organiser . Depending on how the conference is organized you may be able to gain some insights into how the costs come about and then make constructive comments to the organisers on how it should change ; particularly if the organisers are a membership organisation where you are a member .
I think you are mixing up a few different definitions of " count " here . Workshop papers typically " count " very little on your CV . That is , having a few workshop papers will not make you graduate much sooner , and they are pretty much useless when you start looking for e.g. , a tenure track position . Workshop papers , but only those with no formal proceedings , do n't " count " as publications . That is , you can hand in the same material again at a conference or journal without being accused of self-plagiarism . The workshop paper on the website of the workshop is basically a preprint . Hence , formally , the work is still unpublished and you can submit it wherever you want . Workshop papers , no matter if they appeared in formal proceedings or not , can and should be cited . Clearly , if you use this citation to , e.g. , support the validity of a statement , this carries less weight if the cited source is a workshop paper than if it is a well-known journal . However , if you want to apply method A , which you have already presented in a workshop , it seems correct to cite the workshop paper . Note that you will still need to describe the method , as you can not assume the reader of your conference paper to go back and read the workshop paper first .
I think the best answer to this question has already been given as a comment : You should ask your advisor . The fact that you are asking this question suggests that you and your advisor have n't discussed in detail what your thesis should consist of . It 's important to have this conversation , even aside from the particular question you are asking here . ( You do n't want to risk discovering much later that you and your advisor had different visions for what the thesis should be like . ) This is a good answer to so many questions on this site ( I have started to think that there should be an " Ask your advisor ! " closure option ) , but it seems especially true here . From the OP 's comment I can see that the master 's thesis is being done in mathematics . The expectations and requirements for a master 's thesis in mathematics are so highly variable across institutions and countries that I can think of almost nothing ( other than " Ask your advisor ! " ) which would be guaranteed to be universally applicable . In mathematics programs in the US , it is especially unclear what work constitutes a master 's thesis , especially in pure mathematics . Unlike the situation in many other countries , there are relatively few full-time master 's students in American universities , even compared to the number of master 's degrees awarded : in my experience , more master 's degrees go to talented , ambitious undergraduates who get them alongside their bachelor 's degrees , or to PhD students who have decided to drop out of the program and get a consolation degree . In my case I got a master 's degree along with my bachelor 's degree at the University of Chicago , and for such a top university you might be surprised to hear how minimal the requirements were : I had to complete all nine trimester courses that first year graduate ( i.e. , PhD ) students take ( I did so over two years ) and pass a pro forma foreign language exam . [ In particular I did not write a master 's thesis . ] When I went on to my PhD studies ( at Harvard ) I found that I was about as well prepared as most of the other students . I do n't recall that my having a master 's degree came up once during my five years in a PhD program ... with the possible exception that some students would , a year or two into their program , fill out paperwork and pay a small fee to get a master 's degree , whereas I already had one of those so chose to keep my money . Having been heavily involved with the graduate ( mostly PhD ) program at the University of Georgia in recent years , I can say that here a master 's thesis is whatever the advisor and student agree that it is , subject to the approval of two other committee members . Writing a thesis is one route ; there is another route involving more coursework and some exams . Among master 's thesis advisors I 've talked to , the sense is that the student should take the thesis as an opportunity to engage with some piece of mathematics at a deeper level than they have done before , to the extent that they have mastered it and can show this mastery with an original ( or at least , independent ) exposition . This description seems rather at odds with the one given in another answer to this question : NO . Undergrads may get away with using one ( or a few ) papers to synthesize the essence into their own viewpoint , but at the post-grad level you should be reading for width and depth , which means using every seminal work in your field as well as exploring the newer papers on the topic . This is probably a correct description of some academic fields , but not for mathematics . Very few mathematics undergraduates are reading " real " math papers at all . The task of reading , understanding and writing about even one " real " math paper may in fact be sufficient for a master 's thesis . There are even certain papers out there for which rewriting them so as to contain the level of detail and completeness that would satisfy a master 's thesis committee would be a real service to the mathematical community . I think that most PhD students in mathematics do not use every seminal work in [ their ] field : I did n't , for instance . I am not saying that just any old thing will suffice for a master 's thesis in mathematics : I am saying that the global requirements are very few , so it becomes more important to talk to your advisor . I have so far supervised one master 's thesis . My student carefully read and wrote about two papers concerning geometry of numbers and Legendre 's Equation ax ^ 2 + by ^ 2 + cz ^ 2 = 0 . She then tried to extend the techniques of the second paper to diagonal quadratic equations in n \ geq 4 variables . Much of this was easy , but the key was the existence of a " magic sublattice " defined in the three-dimensional case by the necessary congruence conditions for Legendre 's Equation to have a solution . After much trouble ( and some help from me ) , she was eventually able to prove that for more than three variables such a magic sublattice did not exist . She wrote up a thesis which contained exp
" May I submit a paper to another conference that is essentially the same as a paper that is already published or accepted for publication ? " NO * " May I substantially change the content of an accepted conference paper after peer review ? " NO * * Unless it is disclosed to , and permitted by , the PC/editor .
I do n't know the relevant laws , which may vary between U.S. states , but I would n't focus on the legal question . Regardless of whether you have the legal right to make a recording , you should not do so without the speaker 's permission . If someone asked me , I would probably give permission , but making a recording without asking feels creepy and inappropriate . If you go around doing this in academia , it 's likely to be viewed as unprofessional , and some speakers will become angry . Even if you ask , people may wonder why you want a recording . ( Are you stalking the speaker ? Are you going to scrutinize the recording to try to find misstatements ? Are you working on competing research and trying to document exactly what was said in your competitor 's talk ? ) If you have a compelling reason to make a recording , it 's worth explaining why . For example , perhaps it could help accommodate certain disabilities . Otherwise , you can certainly ask , but it may come across as a weird request .
Print it locally . Hopefully , your conference is in a city of some non-negligible size and not in the middle of nowhere . Find a copy shop in the city and print your poster there . Large conferences may even have their own on-site printing , although a last-minute print job may be expensive or even unavailable . Some people do this in any case , so that they do n't have to travel with a poster . ( Your university/employer may or may not be willing to pay for a 2nd printing of the poster )
A paper submitted to a conference can be accepted either as an oral talk , a poster talk , or a short demo/industry track , with variations ( small talks , long talks , plenary talks , e-posters , etc. ) . In some fields , the poster is considered less important , and will not be published as a paper in proceedings . In others , they have the same importance . Conferences have two main purposes ( I forgot about vacations in paradise places ) : present your paper , either talk or poster , attend other talks/posters , meet people . To me , " submitting a paper to a conference implies a moral obligation for one of the authors to present the talk or the poster , if the paper is accepted " . If one does not attend , the submission should be withdrawed , for different potential reasons : you ( and your co-authors ) do not need , or can not afford a poster presentation , the conference program is not good enough for your purposes , you should not fool attendees with papers that will not be presented . In the conferences I do summit to , both oral and poster are considered even . I now do : prefer posters when I present , as I have more time ( 1h-2h vs 15 min-20 min ) to present , to talk with attendees , adapt to their background , prefer attend to posters than to orals , except when I spot a specific point for a given talk . Plus , I do bring along with me small copies of the poster , copies of papers that are related to the work at hand , that I can offer to attendees . Reminder of the root : a " publication " means : make a research " public " . Posters are a good vector for that , and bring you more feedback ( very few questions asked in traditional oral sessions ) . Sometimes , somebody who can not attend your allotted slot can propose a specific meeting . I should admit I even went to a person presenting a poster , to ask him about her/his previous work . In those conferences , poster chairs spot " no shows " : poster panels without posters , posters without presenters , posters with a presenter who is not a co-author . <URL> No-show papers are defined as papers submitted by authors who subsequently did not present the paper in-person ( no videos , no remote cast ) at the technical meeting . Presentations by proxies are not allowed , unless explicitly approved before the conference by the technical co-chairs . No-show papers that were not withdrawn and were published in the Proceedings must be identified as " No-Show " in the files submitted to IEEE for further publication ( IEEE Xplore ) . No-shows will not be available on IEEE Xplore or other public access IEEE forums . IEEE will maintain an archive of no-shows . Authors of " no show " are sometimes blacklisted , and can be banned of publications in the scientific organization places ( future conferences , even journals ) for a couple of years . So it will be perceived poorly if you do not warn the organizers and withdraw the paper , is unethical to other attendees , and involves consequences for you and your co-authors .
In addition to sending an e-mail to the journal , as suggested already , you should check the most common academic databases such as Scopus and Web of Knowledge/Science and submit corrections to them so that they pick up the citation correctly . They have a form to submit this kind of corrections automatically ; it will then take a few weeks to apply them . People often ( way too often , actually ) rely on these databases to measure the performance of academics , so it is important that they do n't miss any of your citations .
Some conferences explicitly encourage ( or even require ) poster presentation of papers . In this case , there is typically an option to simply request that your existing paper also be given a poster slot . Thus , it may in fact be quite reasonable to seek to present in both ways , if the conference supports this . It would not , however , be appropriate to submit a separate poster paper that pretends to be different than the accepted paper . That would be self-plagiarism , and the conference organizers might look very badly upon you for doing that . I would thus recommend getting in touch with the poster chair and asking if they allow accepted full papers to have an accompanying poster as well . If so , that 's great , and you probably do n't need to submit anything more than a formality at most . If not , then accept that there will be no poster and do n't submit anything !
You could mention the people with whom you discussed in the acknowledgements " thanks X and Y for helpful / ... discussions " and cite the conference in the text . To cite it in the correct style , I would recomment that you contact the editorial office and ask . I once asked about the style of referencing a thesis and recieved an answer very fast , so this is the safest way in my opinion .
If it 's published in the conference proceedings , it 's published . You can list it as a conference publication in your CV . You ca n't publish it again in conference proceedings . Regarding publishing it ( or an extended version ) in a journal , see <URL> especially <URL> .
How early should I start writing a paper for a conference ? Well , there are different approaches . Some people think " there is this conference coming , I need to write something for it " , others think " I have this nice idea of research , let 's see where I could present it " . In the first case , you might need to start very early , since you need to do all the research , while in the second case , you might just need to start early ... Seriously though , it depends a lot of the content of the paper , the mechanical action of writing it ( i.e. , typing and formatting the text on a computer ) is not what takes long . Is it reasonable to write and do experiments at the same time ? Sure . Even if you ca n't finish your experiments by the deadline , it 's very likely you can reuse a good part of what you 've already written for another conference . How many references should you check ? one professor told me : check 200 use 30 . You do n't check references because you should , but because they are relevant to your research problem . You should cite what you 've read and what you think is important with respect to you work . You should cite the approaches that laid the basis for your own approaches , and explain how you build on them , which assumptions you are challenging . You should also cite the approaches that are similar to yours , and explain why yours is better . There is no magic number : there are excellent papers with only 10 citations , and bad ones with 50 references .
If you literally read a script , word-for-word , and do not have a teleprompter , you are going to be looking down too much and not looking at your audience enough . Even if you write a script , it would be better to have notes that help you keep the main points in order , and practice until you can give the complete talk in the required time just glancing occasionally at your notes .
There is n't anything wrong with submitting to a conference that might not be a perfect fit . I would urge you to ensure that the fit is decent enough that you wo n't be wasting anyone 's time , but cross-polination can be great for both fields . When I was a graduate student and was helping my advisor review papers for a prominent conference , I read an outstanding paper that I did n't believe was on-topic for the conference , and I suggested to my advisor that it should be rejected it even though it had a novel ( and cool ) contribution . When I discussed it with her , she said that for really excellent papers , program committees will sometimes be flexible . If I was convinced it was that good , she said , I should give it a positive review and let the committee sort it out . In the end they accepted the paper . It was very well-received at the conference , and the authors were excited to get the paper into the competitive conference , where it would undoubtedly be seen by a lot of people .
If the work is extending the original , then all of the original authors should be retained . New authors can certainly be added , however , if they have contributed to the extension .
end question
start question
How do judges evaluate presentations at an undergraduate conference ?
I apologize for the length of my reply , but I think this is a really great question that I discuss with undergraduates and even grad students all the time , and want to use this as an opportunity to share some of my thoughts with you . I completely agree with the points that Fbio Dias made in his answer . However , I want to add one general tip with you that I have found to be extremely effective in my experience both presenting talks and posters as well as judging them . The way I see it , when undergraduate talks/posters are judged , there may or may not be certain specific criteria against which you will be evaluated , but there are certain important subtleties in how you conduct yourself when talking about your work that will almost always affect your evaluation whether there is specific criteria or not . Let me clarify : As Fbio Dias mentioned , there are many important technical factors that are commonly taken into account when judging presentations , but aside from this , I believe that one of the most powerful tools to get great scores on research talks is to demonstrate some passion and interest into the work you are presenting . This is typically the biggest problem with undergraduate presentations . Undergraduates are often not very well-versed in the big picture of their research project and therefore end up simply presenting what they did and what data came of it and what they think it means ( or what their advisor told them it means ) . There is rarely any visible interest in the work , or evidence of creative thought on the part of the student , and this is the biggest factor that separates a great undergrad talk from all other undergrad talks . No matter how dull your research talk may or may not be to you , when you stand up there in front of all those people , make sure to talk and act like you 're the most excited person in the room about the work that you have done . This gets people 's attention , in my opinion , above all else . Some great ways of doing this are : Never , ever , ever , ever , ever read from your slides , especially your title . Always come up with a great " prose " way to describe your whole project and then your data . Try to look at your slides as little as possible , unless you 're pointing out something on a figure . Look at the audience , glance around the room . In a scientific forum setting , simple presentation skills often directly translate into command of the material being presented . A great way to prevent yourself from doing the above is to not have many words on your slides , this keeps people interested and keeps you from reading to the audience . Many undergrads believe that their research can not be presented without many words on the slides , but there is almost always a creative way to do this . Question yourself , and question your research . This does not mean you should tell the audience that your conclusions are not accurate , but rather avoid being too rigid in how you describe your conclusions . Avoid words phrases like ' definitely , ' ' clearly , ' ' this means that , ' ' we discovered , ' or any version of the word prove/proof/proved , unless used as a technical term such as ' mathematical proof . ' Always talk about your work in terms of what it could mean for the future , For example , talk about some interesting data that you could n't yet explain ; offer several possible ways to frame your conclusions ; try to add a few " next steps " to your presentation ( and not as a list on the last slide , but work it in in a few places as you talk about your work ) . If you anticipate a question or questions from the audience that you will probably not know how to answer , bring it out in the open as part of your presentation , and say that you are still working to understand that particular part of your project . Some of these things may seem trivial or obvious , but these are probably the most common " mistakes " undergraduate students typically make when giving oral presentations . I say " mistakes " lightly because it is obvious that sometimes the student simply does not get the proper guidance from their advisers , either about their project , or about how to present the work properly , or both . In these cases , of course , acting like you truly love your project may not be possible because it may not be true . But either way , what it boils down to usually , coming back to something Fbio Dias said above , is that at the undergraduate level , the expectation is less on whether the results are impressive , but rather whether you can demonstrate that you are a good researcher , and that you have done the most with the results that you have . Good Luck !
In my field , applied mathematics , this would mean find 4-8 people who are willing to participate in the conference and give a talk in your session . Small print : they are going to have to pay their own conference fee , and we do not reimburse any expense to them or give financial support of any kind . Typically you find these people by asking them in person or sending them an e-mail . Do not overbook , as people accept more often than not , if it is a good conference . This is how most conference sessions are organized -- if the conference itself is respectable , there is nothing suspicious about it .
The other answers do n't really address the issue of recommendations , so let me , at least briefly . I 've been on our math PhD admission committee several times and we get many applications from people who 've gotten their undergrad some time ago . First , yes there is some truth to it being easier to get in right after your undergrad degree . The letters of recommendation are important . If your professors know you quite well , and the department is relatively small , they should still be able to write you decent letters after a year or two hiatus , but if it gets to 5-10 years , they may not , and with that kind of time lapse , their letters wo n't count for as much anyway . My advice would be to consider what else you want to do . Is there something else you really want to do for awhile ( peace corps , travel , interesting job opportunity ) ? If so , it wo n't kill your chances for grad school , but you may have to apply to more backup schools . If you 're out for longer , it might be best to do a masters first before getting into a PhD program . If you do n't have any definite ideas , why do n't you try applying to a few masters programs ( Vladhagan 's suggestion of trying a masters first is a good idea to give you a sense of what you want to do and give yourself a better background ) and a few PhD programs that seem interesting to you ? At the same time , maybe go to a career fair and send out a few job applications in the spring ? The PhD programs that accept you ( at least if you 're in the US ) at least should give you an opportunity to visit , so even if you 're undecided about a PhD in the spring , visiting these schools ( and similarly any job interview impressions ) may help you make a decision .
Not exactly an answer , but a couple things to note . Letters on MathJobs expire eventually ; I think you can see the expiration date on the " cover sheet " page . It will be very awkward if it expires partway through the application process . Also , note that your advisor will be able to remove or update the letter at any time , which could be a problem if he is really vindictive - he could replace the letter with something unfavorable . So in short , regardless of how an old letter looks to the committee , it may not be wise to use the letter against your advisor 's wishes .
You do n't need to include any of the proposed titles in your presentation . They all come across as stilted and affected , and are entirely unnecessary . Instead , if this is a public presentation , treat it as you would any other such presentation : indicate the title of your talk as you normally would have it , and so on . If this is the " private " presentation to the faculty , then you should give it a title representing your current and future research interests . You do n't need to say " what " the presentation is for -- again , the location of the talk should be sufficient .
The funding depends on your nationality/residence by a lot , as well as the field , the university , and the supervisor . UK or EEA residents can get funding from national research councils ( such as ESPRC , STFC and many more ) which give them ( usually ) the cost of tuition plus a small living stipend ( when I was applying the living wage was about # 13,000 ) . Non UK/EEA people generally have to self-fund outside of a few special circumstances ( competitive international scholarships such as Rhodes , university bursaries for internationals ) . This is very very rare . However , it 's not terribly uncommon to see students from an above-average financial situation self-funding , but then they need to pay not only their living costs , but also the cost of tuition ( at my old university it was about # 20k per year for international students ) . I wrote an extensive response on all of these issues <URL> and <URL> and <URL> . The other answers from other users on those posts are also excellent . So what happens is that you apply , and then you will be ( hopefully ) asked for an interview . If you are able to compete for the ' normal ' funding pot , you will be interviewed much the same way as everyone else . First a shortlist , then the interviews , and maybe follow-up interviews will be used to select the best candidates from the pool of applicants . If you 're non-UK/EEA , you may or may not interview with everyone else ; it 's up to the university . If they do n't have the money to fund you , many departments will make you an offer anyway ( especially for foreign students ) which you will usually have several months to accept or decline . The research councils will grant the department a certain number of PhD studentship bursaries , and they will distribute them . From what I 've seen , you do n't have to do much self-application for scholarships unless you 're foreign . Though you will always be told where the money is coming from , and there may be some requirements ( a yearly seminar , for example ) to get the money . If you are given a stipend , it is tax-free , unlike in many other countries . Your funding is all-inclusive , not split up into RA or TA like in the US . You can normally make extra money marking coursework or demonstrating in labs , although the ' estimated number of hours ' taken by these activities does n't always match up with the actual number of hours you spend on them !
If it 's published in the conference proceedings , it 's published . You can list it as a conference publication in your CV . You ca n't publish it again in conference proceedings . Regarding publishing it ( or an extended version ) in a journal , see <URL> especially <URL> .
Do you mean fellowships and other PhD-student only external awards , or are you OK with listing " I helped write this larger project grant that covered lots of people but I was not listed by name in the application " ? I think that in the last couple of years of a PhD , students should be helping to write the project proposals , but there are lots of reasons besides failure and lack of trying that might explain why they did not . Well-funded supervisors may , in my opinion misguidedly , shield their students from grant writing so that they can focus on the research . I think that this is a failure on the part of the supervisor to properly prepare a student for future research work , but it happens all the time . Some people do n't get this training until the are a postdoc . You should n't hold the actions of the supervisor against the candidate . Also , some applicants may believe that if they were " only " part of the writing team but not a co-PI or Senior Personnel ( in NSF-speak ) on an application , that they should not list it on their CV . Finally , even for external grants which only cover a single student ( fellowships and the like ) , having not applied for one does n't mean much . There are many , many more PhD students than there are fellowship opportunities . If you are trashing CVs for any of these reasons , you may be missing out on good postdocs . Edited to answer the question ( sort of ) : I do n't hire a lot of postdocs , but I have directly or indirectly hired 20-30 PhD-level research staff . Some of them are expected to participate in proposal writing . We gauge their ability to write proposals by looking for it on CVs , asking them about their experience when it 's not on their CVs , and talking about it during interviews . Then , we throw them in the deep end and see what happens . In my organization , we have large-scale projects that fund people 's time , but if they want to work on their personal research projects , they need to write proposals . Those who do , get to work on things besides the center-wide projects . Those who do n't , do n't .
My question is : will this have any positive benefits while I 'm applying to graduate school ? I think you are asking whether it will make your application more competitive . Answer : not much . At many/most universities , anyone can audit any course at any time , and it does n't certify anything more than that they showed up for class -- in some cases not even that . I had an auditor in a course this semester who showed up for the first half of the lectures and not for the second half . My response : ok . It shows up in my records -- so presumably also hers -- that she audited the course . I am not asked to assign a grade of any kind . Or would the admissions committee assume that I did n't learn as much as someone who actually took the course , and take it with a grain of salt that I know the material ? They would probably not assume anything at all . They would certainly not regard this as being evidence that you learned the material : getting a poor grade in a course certainly does not demonstrate learning of the material , and auditing shows less than that . Of course you can learn things by auditing a course . But you can also learn by outside reading and in other ways . However most students at this level learn more by actually taking a course , and of course if you do well in the course then that knowledge gets certified ( to an extent ) and can be used advantageously in your graduate application . Story check : you say that you have two years left of undergraduate study and ca n't find time to officially take one course that you think will be beneficial to your intended graduate study . This professor who read graduate applications for several years finds that hard to believe . In two years you should be able to work in the time to take one extra course , e.g. by ( i ) taking courses over the summer or ( ii ) getting excused from one course in a sequence , say by taking an exam which shows your competence . This is something to talk to your undergraduate advisor about .
Rtisan is probably right about a local conference carrying somewhat less weight and prestige on a CV . However , there are some other benefits of presenting at a local conference : It 's usually free . With the travel money you save , you can attend another conference far away later on . Now you have two conference talks on your CV instead of just one . ( In other words , " present locally " versus " present far away " is probably a false dichotomy . Even if the local conference conflicts with a faraway conference , there is very likely another faraway conference in the near future that 's just as good . And if the conflicting faraway conference is , like , the one and only awesomest conference in your field , then the organizers of your local conference probably should n't have scheduled theirs to conflict with it . ) Less travel : you get to save a day or two of travel time , sleep in your own bed , see your family , etc. . This may make the conference much more relaxing . Being the attraction : People may be saying to themselves : " Hey , there 's a conference at Podunk University . I think that 's where gman works , so I 'm sure he 'll be there . I was just reading his paper and it will be great to hear his talk and ask him questions . " Networking : as a local at a conference , people are more likely to want to talk to you . For instance , " Hey gman , you live here , can you recommend a good restaurant in town ? Would you like to join us for dinner ? " The opportunity to talk to other researchers informally can be very valuable to a career . Even fielding mundane questions like " How do I connect to the wifi ? Where is Room NNN ? Can you help me turn on the projector ? " can start good conversations . ( Make sure you know the answers to these questions ! ) It can be harder to initiate interactions like this when you are a stranger in a strange city . Help organize : Try to join the organizing committee , or at least offer to help them out . Organizing a local conference is a lot of work , and by contributing to this you will gain the appreciation of your colleagues . It 's also valuable experience , and " conference co-organizer " is a nice line to have on a CV . Finally , conference organizers tend to have more contact with the visiting participants , contributing to Networking as above .
It would seem that you should contact the organizing committee of the conference and get their advice . To me it seems kind of low to write papers that have very similar content but it does happen . If you are questioning it that much I would bring it up with the Organizing Committee and see what they say . You do n't even have to mention names or specifics but just get their general opinion .
There is no single purpose of the viva , but broadly speaking it tests a student 's ability to act like a researcher . It is not easy to define what does " being a researcher " mean , but the list of skills required definitely includes such things as : understanding the importance of the problem and its place in a wide picture of researchchoice of appropriate method to solve the problem ability to find a sound , elegant and technically accurate solution ability to communicate the solution for different audiences Many undergraduate assessments only test skill 3 from the list and ( partly ) skill 2 . When students prepare a coursework or sit an exam , they always communicate their results in a certain style , typically in writing , and written for the single reader : the lecturer running the module . Unlike a typical assessment , the format of viva allows three-way communication between the student , the text of thesis , and the readers / examiners . The opportunity to ask student a question about the text changes the game completely for all parties . For the student , the task is not only to write and present a text with the solution , but also to understand the solution , the questions which may be marginally connected with the topic of the text -- a & laquo ; big picture & raquo ; . For examiners , the goal is not only to check the formal correctness of the arguments , but also to make sure the student can freely use these arguments , and apply them to problems within the big picture . Answering your specific question : it does not matter , what does the supervisor know . In viva , you , as a researcher , present the thesis . Your skill to be solely responsible for the text you produced is what is tested , not the text per se . It is you , who should focus the examiners on the important parts of your thesis . Through the way how you present the research , you should be able to create a right context , and to attract the attention to the strongest parts of your thesis . Success in this part will invite comfortable questions ; failure will result in a number of random questions distributed all over your thesis , which you 'll have to answer . If you feel really uncomfortable talking about ( some ) part of your thesis , you possibly should ask yourself , why this topic is still a part of your thesis in the first place .
The answer will clearly vary by institution , and in particular by field ( Your average English prof would n't be expected to hold any patents but a materials scientist might ) but yes , it certainly can . Patents and publications are measures of productivity and it would be silly not to note them . It should be pointed out , however , that <URL> , so a particularly high rate might be indicative of someone not in academia .
In the following , when talking about displaying a presentation with a certain aspect ratio on a projector with a certain aspect ratio , I always assume that the presentation 's aspect ratio is preserved and black bars are added at the appropriate sides . Never have the projector digitally warp your presentation : It destroys <URL>  and may make fine lines invisible . The best aspect ratio is the one of the very projector you are presenting on , as you can make best use of the space . In particular with projectors , you do not want any content to be unnecessarily downscaled as their resolution is very low to begin with and the projection area may be rather small ( and thus difficult to see for the audience ) . An okay 16:9 presentation may be rendered unreadably small , if displayed on a 4:3 projector . Now , depending on your presentation and how dynamical you program it , adapting to a different solution may be a rather simple thing with Beamer ( apparently in contrast to Powerpoint , going by the article you linked ) . I once changed a presentation of mine from 4:3 to 16:9 in about half an hour , and this included recompiling complex animations and a lot of perfectionism -- a " normal " presentation could be adapted much faster . If you do not want to adapt , the choice essentially depends on the average age and purpose of projectors in your conference venues ( I would guess that newer projectors or projectors mainly used for movies are rather 16:9 ) . Thus it depends on your field and probably also your continent . Anyway , most projectors I have encountered so far had a 4:3 resolution and most of those who had n't had a resolution very close to it . I 've only encountered a single 16:9 projector . I thus use 4:3 as the default .  To give you an idea , the following shows this sentence as natively rendered by my computer ( with hinting ) and the same text digitally stretched or squeezed : <URL>
Like a lot of things in academia , I think this will heavily depend on what discipline you 're in . In computer science for example , while there 's nothing wrong with a book chapter , a paper at a conference or in a journal is typically more valuable . The reason normally given is that papers are peer reviewed ( as compared to edited ) , so they are somehow more ' valid ' . Having said that , there 's always myriad exceptions . Writing a whole book that everyone uses is much better than a few papers . Later in the career , book chapters perhaps gain value as they 're a mark of respect and prestige ( once you 've already proven your research ability ) . As a counter-point though , from my limited experience , it seems that book chapters are much more common in bioinformatics and operations research , and thus are viewed more highly . Talk to fellow academics in your area , their opinion will be the best guide .
Whether or not it 's technically legally acceptable , I would find it extremely gauche to post a publication online before it has been made available by the venue where it is scheduled for appear . Thus , for conferences I wait until the date of the conference , and for journals I wait until the " online early " copy appears . Now , if your publication is also compatible with an alternate means of publication , like arXiv or a tech report at your institution , I would find it completely reasonable to post a version up that way , citing that , and then later update the links and citation information when the " official " version comes out .
I wonder if anything I say against my supervisor or my experience will worsen my future studies ( and relationship ) with my professor until I graduate . It could , and this depends on many factors ( including the character of this professor , his relationship with your supervisor , your character and how you explain things etc. . . ) , I do n't think anyone can predict whether or not it actually will . I recommend first considering what you hope to achieve in discussing this with the head of the department ( aka president/professor ) . I can imagine a couple of possibilities : You feel the need to unload and feel some sympathy . You care about the system and hope this can be avoided for future students . If it is mainly the first , I strongly suggest talking to a friend over a beer instead . You 'll avoid the risk , and also wo n't essentially waste your professor 's time ( which would probably negatively affect his impression of you ) . If your motivation is the second , I think this is quite a noble and selfless thing to do , showing high integrity , but it does put yourself at quite a bit of risk with essentially no gain ( it helps future students , but if I understand correctly , not you ) . If this is your goal , I urge you to first consider whether you think this professor would actually care about the advice of an undergrad ( I have known professors who would appreciate it , but also some who would simply consider the student to be complaining , in which case relations with that professor would indeed worsen ) . If you think he will , then I suggest the following : Before speaking to your professor , make sure you can present the situation clearly , as objectively as possible and concisely ( the longer you speak , the more it sounds like a rant and you lose interest - also professors tend to be very busy , and thus have low attention spans for issues that do n't seem important ) . Be very clear straight off the bat that you understand and agree that what has already happened has happened and nothing can/will be done for you , and your intent is solely to raise awareness of the issue so that it can be avoided in the future . Possibly put this intent in writing when contacting the professor for the meeting ( again , as short as possible ) . In the end , taking action here will involve risk , regardless of your intentions . You will have to weigh how much you care about the issue , and what chances you think you have .
As you suggest in your question , this likely will vary from both field to field , and from lab to lab . In the two research labs I 've worked in , one engineering and one neuroscience , undergraduates did a tremendous amount of useful work . In engineering , they would help with circuit design and fabrication , as well as doing background research and presenting their findings to the group as a whole . In the neuroscience lab , they would do cellular recordings and prepare cell cultures , as well as participate in paper writing . In both cases , the undergraduates benefitted tremendously from the experience in a number of ways ; they experienced the life of a researcher , they got to perform actual research work , they published articles and conference papers , and they received excellent letters of recommendation . The lab also benefitted , in that they had a ( most of the time ) highly motivated student who was interested in doing work performing research , the grad students/professors had more time either prepare other experiments or write papers , and all the benefits of simply having someone else around to bounce ideas off of . All in all , if the lab is organized enough to handle the logistics of providing the students with regular ( non-busywork ) tasks to perform , it 's a win-win situation for everyone .
I 'm going to disagree with Oswald . In my experience , undergraduate students do not often prove new things in pure math . I would n't even say master 's theses often contain new results . There are a few main reasons for this . Firstly , pure mathematics operates at a level that is not very accessible for most undergraduates , even those doing research . Undergraduates doing research are often well out of their depth and holding on for dear life . This can mostly be attributed to just not having enough time to get up to speed with what is considered modern mathematics . Most courses in mathematics at the undergraduate level are about math from 50-100 years ago ( if not older ) . Secondly , undergraduates do not often have the mathematical experience to know what the right plan of attack is when faced with an abstract and new problem and they may not know how to check their work thoroughly to make sure there are no major oversights or blunders . A lot of mathematics involves lateral thinking and it takes a lot of time to build those connections . The hardest part of a pure math PhD ( in my opinion ) is learning how to attack a problem no one has considered before . Standard techniques that others used may not be useful at all to you for one reason or another . An undergraduate wo n't have the creativity to navigate this kind of issue because the kind of creativity that is needed comes with a lot of experience . Even when an undergraduate student thinks they 've proved something , the nuances of their argument likely will not be apparent to them . ( This is especially true when it comes to functional analytic/measure theoretic arguments - the devil is in the details . ) Thus a proposed proof may not even be close to being right . Lastly , not many undergraduates in pure math do research because the gap they have to overcome between coursework and modern mathematics is pretty substantial . Those that make contributions in pure math are those that are very , very talented and have very thorough backgrounds ( backgrounds that rival master 's / PhD students ) . Undergraduates in pure math are not expected to make contributions . That is not what research is about for them . Introducing an undergraduate to research serves a couple of different purposes : it introduces them to more advanced topics and it gives them a taste of what research is like so that they can make an informed decision about whether or not graduate school is right for them . As such , the theses are more like surveys of a specialized topic in mathematics . There is a lot of independent learning involved and there may be some unique examples , insights , and connections contained therein . They may not be presenting " original " work , but poster sessions are there to present what they 've learned regardless of whether or not it was original . So yes , it is kind of like a lecture . They are undergraduates and far from being experts in their field . Note that I am not saying that no undergraduate ever produces new results in pure math ( there are some high school students that are better than most PhDs ) , but it is not a common occurrence and is not expected or considered the norm .
Yes , you can list this as an invited talk . Even though the first invitation was not to you , the second invitation most certainly was . Here is another way of thinking about it that may make it clear : imagine that rather than inviting your professor , the organizer has simply asked your professor : " Who do you think would be good to invite to my session ? " and your professor suggests you . This would clearly be an invitation ( albeit one where you benefit from your professional network , which often happens ) . The only difference between this situation and yours is that the suggestion was preceded by a failed invitation of your professor .
end question
start question
What does " external reviewer " mean for a computer science conference ?
Conferences are organized differently in different subfield of computer science ; my answer describes the situation in theory . At theoretical computer science conferences , the program committees are relatively small , in part because submissions from program committee members are strictly forbidden . Each submitted paper is assigned to 2-4 PC members to review ; for a typical conference this means each PC member is assigned 25-50 papers to review . Reviewing that many papers is a huge burden , and despite a preliminary bidding process , every PC member is assigned at least a few papers outside their areas of expertise . So PC members regularly solicit reviews from people outside the committee whose expertise better matches a given paper . Those people are external reviewers . Normally each PC member tries to gets a different external reviewer for each paper ( except the papers they review on their own ) , but a single external reviewer might get papers from multiple PC members . ( In other communities , what I call " PC members " are called " area chairs " , and what I 'm calling " external reviewers " are called " PC members " . ) Does this mean the person officially reviews the paper for the conference , or he/she gets a request to review from someone who officially reviews the paper ? Both . A list of all external reviewers is typically included in the conference proceedings just after the table of contents ( <URL> ) as official acknowledgement of their service . On the other hand , PC members are expected to use the external reviews they solicit as guidelines , not as substitutes for their own judgement , especially when comparing submissions that were reviewed by different people .
It has to be a conference with a rebuttal phase , where the authors can answer the main points raised by the reviewers , who in turn will be able to draw more conclusive remarks on the paper itself see also here : <URL>
I think not . Ask yourself what the editor of the journal would think if your CV crossed their desk , and they saw you listing yourself as a reviewer and they 'd never heard your name before . Having a review delegated to you does not make you a reviewer for that journal . The journal chose your professor , not you , so you should not muddy the waters about what you 've been asked to do . If someone asks you about your reviewing experience , feel free to tell them that you did some subreviewing for your professor .
Conferences are organized differently in different subfield of computer science ; my answer describes the situation in theory . At theoretical computer science conferences , the program committees are relatively small , in part because submissions from program committee members are strictly forbidden . Each submitted paper is assigned to 2-4 PC members to review ; for a typical conference this means each PC member is assigned 25-50 papers to review . Reviewing that many papers is a huge burden , and despite a preliminary bidding process , every PC member is assigned at least a few papers outside their areas of expertise . So PC members regularly solicit reviews from people outside the committee whose expertise better matches a given paper . Those people are external reviewers . Normally each PC member tries to gets a different external reviewer for each paper ( except the papers they review on their own ) , but a single external reviewer might get papers from multiple PC members . ( In other communities , what I call " PC members " are called " area chairs " , and what I 'm calling " external reviewers " are called " PC members " . ) Does this mean the person officially reviews the paper for the conference , or he/she gets a request to review from someone who officially reviews the paper ? Both . A list of all external reviewers is typically included in the conference proceedings just after the table of contents ( <URL> ) as official acknowledgement of their service . On the other hand , PC members are expected to use the external reviews they solicit as guidelines , not as substitutes for their own judgement , especially when comparing submissions that were reviewed by different people .
In short , tenure means that you can not be fired ( you have a very permanent position ) . For more details , look at this question : <URL> In particular , look at the first link in the <URL> to that question , which is an article in Science that talks about the role of tenure .
There are two types of publications in Computer Science : Publications in peer-reviewed conferences with published proceedings Publications in journals If you present your results at a conference or workshop but do n't publish them in the conference proceedings -- it 's not a publication . In general , publications in top tier conferences are much more important than journal publications for computer science researchers . Usually you can first publish your paper in conference proceedings and then submit it to a journal but not the other way around ( though , of course , that depends on conference and journal policies ) .
To be short , yes . According to the <URL> , it means ' see the index ' . It basically tells you to refer the index section and look for the topic that is discussed in the context where it is cited . Note : This question was asked in both Academia.SE and English.SE to benefit both communities as there is n't a single standard dictionary that could be found online to define this term . Credits go to the <URL> in English.SE for answering my post .
For me , it means two things : I am really busy I do n't know anything about the job you 're applying to and what you want to emphasize about yourself If the first draft you write is something I ca n't sign , I 'll edit it or I wo n't sign it . If it 's not braggy enough , I might add some emphasis . But metaphorically handing me a piece of blank paper and asking me to recommend you is actually asking me to put in quite a lot of work . Do these people you 're applying to value initiative ? Creativity ? Willingness to work long hard hours ? Cheerfullness ? A driven nature ? A gentle spirit ? Is the fact you write great software relevant to them ? How about your careful bench work ? For all I know you want to do less of one thing and more of another . So now I need to ask you a zillion questions about what you want to emphasize , and maybe go research the job too , and then ask you if what I 've written is ok - frankly , it 's way easier to ask you to write the first draft . And some days , I take the easy route . It does not mean : I intend to sign words I did n't write . I will write the final draft It 's ok for you to make up strengths you do n't have You 'll know what I send in the end I ca n't write a simple letter without help from a student . Your first draft does n't even have to be a letter , it can be point form . But tell me you 're choosing me as a reference so I can confirm your amazing Xness , Yabilty and Zation . If I can , I will . By the way , I wish I could find the idiot who started the theory that it means I do n't think well of you and want you to retract your request . Several students have retracted their requests after I asked for a first draft , and that 's a shame , because I would have cheerfully signed a glowing recommendation for them . I just did n't have time to write it all from scratch myself .
I 'm sure you 'll find people who are " retired " ( from administrative duties , from chasing the next funding proposal ) and still are hard at work , while others just want to stay at home and look at the lake in front of the window . If one of them would take you on as mentoree ( made up word , I know ) is anybody 's guess . Perhaps they retired in part to be free of having to deal with pesky students . Maybe you are so outstanding that you lure the hermit back into active work .
Top tier can mean a lot of different things to different people - and indeed , can mean a lot of things to different fields . Ask a diverse group of academics drawing from math , health science , and the humanities what a " good " impact factor is sometime if you have the chance - the variability is massive . Personally , for me , when I say " Top Tier " I 'm usually thinking of soft factors - journals where solid publications go , venues that you 'd highlight on the cover letter of a CV , etc. . That often has an association with Impact Factor , but it 's not necessarily fixed . For example , PLoS One has an impact factor that 's about on par with several journals I 'd consider " Top Tier " in my field , but PLoS One is n't on that list .
If it is an established IEEE-sponsored conference , then I would expect that it means they will definitely be published in IEEE Xplore . Typically , the IEEE simply transforms the conference proceedings directly into an IEEE Xplore collection , and that is the official archival proceedings of the conference . The only publications that typically do not make this transition are those which are not presented at the conference ( e.g. , the authors do n't show up ) , which the IEEE does not generally allow to be published as part of the final proceedings .
OK I must also point out before you read the rest of the answer that the Editorial decision has not come yet and this is likely the Editorial decision after minor processing ( sorting , subject headings , keyword checks ( maybe/maybe not ) ) and a Technical editor shortlisting it for further review when the editor decides on how to proceed ( EE decision ) This is now Obviously the Editorial Decision . He can send it for review if it is a blind peer to peer review journal or reject it outright . Thus the EE decision would be completed by the editor or designated person after going through the paper and deciding if he has to send it to a reviewer , if he has reviewers for the subject matter , if he can return directly to the author for modifications/rewrites or if he wants to accept it for publication ( unlikely without a blind peer to peer review .
This means that the paper was presented to the members of society who were present at the meeting noted . I am more familiar with this language in much older papers . I believe its use here is a holdover from a time when paper would be presented by a Fellow of the society ( who may have been the author of the paper , or otherwise ) to the assembled members of the society . For example , neither Darwin nor Wallace were present at the 1848 meeting of the Linnean Society at which their joint papers were presented ; instead the papers were read by secretary John Bennett .
Off the top of my head , I can think of American CS faculty who have been supported by grants , contracts , or gifts from each of the following : US funding agencies : DARPA , Department of Defense , Department of Energy , National Instutites of Health , Department of Homeland Security , Office of Naval Research , Army Research Office , Department of Education , NASA , ... Foreign funding agencies ( usually in concert with NSF , for international collaborations ) : Deutsche Forshungsgemeinschaft ( Germany ) , Centre national de la recherche scientifique ( France ) , Israeli Science Foundation , Danish National Research Foundation , ... Private foundations : Sloan , Packard , Simons , Fulbright , Guggenheim , ... Industry : Google , Microsoft , Facebook , Cisco , Boeing , Adobe , NVidia , ...
I think you are thinking more of a tutorial than a research object . You may be interested on <URL> . Research is about obtaining some new knowledge . This knowledge can be simply a compilation of some things that are already done and existing but were never put together to compare them ( a survey ) for instance . IMHO survey papers get a good number of citations because they are in fact quite useful . There are a number of things to do research in that field , for instance you could put something new in that small debugger ( beyond the state of the art ) or try a set of different things in that small debugger to compare them and obtain that comparative knowledge ( being new ) or do a survey of the debuggers that exist , or evaluate them wrt something new ( e.g. usability ) find open questions in the field of debuggers , define a problem that was not being considered before Basically it boils down to finding and defining a problem ( which is open in the state of the art ( SOA ) ) finding or creating solutions ( and adding them to the SOA ) evaluating and comparing solutions ( in the SOA to know better how is it ) I 'd say all of them are quite pragmatical , focusing on solutions . The point is to solve something new ( it 's quite pointless solving something that is already solved , right ? ) . evaluate properly ( so that we can understand why is it a solution and what properties does it have , when is it useful and when may not be so useful ) . finding problems ( because the first step to solve a problem is identifying it ) Depending on the approach taken then the research and the paper will look in different ways but basically you need : an introduction an explanation of the background that may be required to understand everything else ( this is optional ) a description of the state of the art , what is out there that is relevant for the proposal the proposal ( for definition , solution or evaluation of the problem at hand ) the results obtained with that proposal the conclusions obtained from the results acknowledgements PS : If that fails you can simply forget about the state of the art and do research on this as if it was new , without checking properly the literature on the topic before . If you apply the methods correctly and do a good work that could be ok in some contexts ( I 'm not sure about the context of this question , though ) . This would not be very practical , because most probably someone did that already decades ago .
You do n't need any publications to get into a good Ph.D. program . Publications are often slow , and it 's an unexpected bonus for an undergraduate to have publications , not a necessity . What is a necessity is to have strong reference letters attesting to your potential for research , and one of the best ways to get those is to get involved in research . Being involved in research , in turn , will also tend to lead to publications . Thus , you see the correlation . Research and research-related activities that help a person into graduate school also tend to help cause that person to end up with publications . In short : publications are n't the key , they are simply dependent on the same root cause .
There is no difference . There is no global standard for what qualifies as a BS and what qualifies as a BA ; it 's entirely up to the university . There is no way to tell from the letters on your diploma how broad or rigorous your degree program is . Computer science programs in the US , at least in engineering colleges , are accredited by ABET . Those accredited programs tend to give Bachelor of Science degrees . But CS accreditation is relatively new , and neither graduate scihools nor employers really care whether your degree is accredited ( except for some government jobs which require accredited degrees by law ) . What does matter is which classes you took , and how rigorous those classes are ( or appear to be , based on publicly available course descriptions/materials ) . If the degree type does n't matter , what are the positives/negatives of getting a PhD with an BA/BS . The only advantage of getting a PhD with a BS instead of a BA is that you have one more S in your CV and one less A . This is also the only disadvantqge .
I agree with Seteropere completely , " Network Science " is a very broad subject . I work with the theory of " dynamic networks " which involves a lot of graph theory , complex networks , and time series analysis , but also in protocol design for Delay Tolerant Networks which is another application you might like . Take a look at this website , <URL> it has plenty of links that I rate very highly . Including links to Alain Barrat 's work ( check out <URL> it has some wonderful illustrations of dynamic networks ) . There is also a conference devoted specifically to Temporal and Dynamic Networks <URL> Here are some of the tips I sent to a recent new student in our department , most are free in that there are no paywalls : Look at the references on the most recent papers you are reading , and also look at the conferences and journals that the authors are involved in by visiting their personal websites . This will tell you where people are currently submitting to . There are some websites devoted to finding conferences too , but do n't rely on them . Some examples : <URL> <URL> Find a conference you like the look of , look at their calls for papers , and past proceedings to see what they are asking for . Mailing lists ! Sign up to ( but do n't spam ) well known mailing lists . Again this will be dependent on the area you are interested in . In computer networking the biggest mailing list for calls for papers is probably the IEEE TCCC mailing list , <URL> . Social networks . Sign up to Twitter/Facebook/Linkedin / etc. . A lot of Phd Students , PostDocs , lecturers , research groups , and conferences are on Twitter . When you find someone or something you like , look for it on social networking sites , look who is following , what they are talking about , and get involved . Good luck .
If certain fields of academia do in fact frown upon " popularizing " science , then they are shooting themselves in the foot . One of the most important ways of securing funding in different disciplines is through getting support by the federal governments in which they are working . Convincing politician X that you should fund research on doohickey X and widget Y to solve problem Z rather than funding their new shopping mall or football stadium requires convincing them that your research is important and worthwhile . The key to doing this is having a message to sell -- something that the lobbyists and staff persons working for the government officials can take to them and say " this is what you need to know about why this is important . " An excellent way of doing this is to take part in writing columns , producing features for television , and other " popular " methods of outreach . You 'll have to figure out how to distill your message in a way that 's exciting for the viewer or reader , and that will help no only you but your peers as well .
Contribution to knowledge means creating new knowledge based on the previous available knowledge by doing extensive and innovative research . Look up this related illustrative post by <URL> on what is a PhD . And for the said MS student , he should get his degree without any problem , because he showed a new &amp; original application of the CS algorithm in a new field . Hence , new knowledge generated .
end question
start question
Will mentioning that I 'm considering a PhD to start a company hurt my chances ?
Academia is s sort of pyramid scheme . The number of people interested in positions at the next level up greatly exceeds the number of vacancies . This is not a secret so an applicant who wants to go into industry should not be disadvantaged . That said , whether you will be allowed to commercialize the results of your PhD research will depend on the University and group / department policies as well as the source of your funding and any conditions attached to that .
Will the non-degree option help my chances at being accepted to university A 's MS program ? No . Will the non-degree option hurt my chances at being accepted to university B 's PhD program ? No . Will they need to know about the non-degree if I 'm eventually accepted to the degree option ? Do well in the course and then you 'll be proud to share the transcript with them .
The co-author of my recently accepted paper works at Microsoft . The paper has absolutely nothing to do with her job , so we specified her affiliation as " Independent Researcher " .
Yes , your reputation is diminished , because people will think you could n't get published any other way . It will actively harm your chances at pretty much any interaction with reputable organizations , including grant proposals . Do n't do it .
I estimate that I need to send about 400 USD a month to my parents . Will I be able to afford it ? I live on a graduate TAship that pays slightly more than 20K per year . I can put away about 200 USD every month . I live in a fairly expensive city , eat out once or twice a week , but do n't have a car . Exactly how much you will be able to send home will depend on your lifestyle and where in the US you live . New York ? You 'll probably have very little left over . Middle of nowhere , out on the coutry ? 400 USD is reasonable . Am I correct in assuming that the typical USA stipend would be about 20K a year ? Depends on your subject area and school . Some have more funding for grad students , others have less . Your advisor may also be able to supplement your salary from his grants if he 's well-funded . ( Bur yes , somewhere between 18 and 25K are the most common figures ) . Will I be violating any terms of employment of the university , if I take up part-time employment during my Ph.D. ? What is the typical nature of part-time jobs one may find ? Is it worth it ? Typically , you will have a TA-ship which will count as your part time job . Most schools require you to get special permission to have additional jobs , and these permits are very hard to obtain . In addition , a PhD is hard . You wo n't have time for much more work outside . Is one eligible to seek part-time employment under F1-visa ( I am assuming that is the typical student visa ) ? If not , what are the other options ? Are the other visas significantly harder to obtain ? You can only work for up to 20 hours a week during term-time on an F1-visa . These 20 hours have to be on campus , and typically your department will report your TA hours as your work hours . This effectively prevents you from working extra during the semesters . During holidays you can work for at most 40 hours a week , on or off campus . As a student , you need to be there as either an F1-student , or with permanent residence . Permanent residence is orders of magnitude harder to obtain ( pretty much impossible ) . Are graduate school stipends taxable in the USA ? Depends on the state , and if all of it is payed out as a scholarship , or if some is payed out as a salary .
Academia is s sort of pyramid scheme . The number of people interested in positions at the next level up greatly exceeds the number of vacancies . This is not a secret so an applicant who wants to go into industry should not be disadvantaged . That said , whether you will be allowed to commercialize the results of your PhD research will depend on the University and group / department policies as well as the source of your funding and any conditions attached to that .
I 've personally seen a few careers survive this exact problem ( caveat : I do n't necessarily see the ones that do n't ) , but it is n't easy . The best way to surmount this problem is to be referred into a job in an industry/government/NGO lab - and have someone within the organization pulling for you . If you 're doing an academic post-doc right now , that 's fine , but you need to start connecting to people who work in the kinds of places you want to work . If you do another post-doc , do one for a company or a government lab . If you 've got someone who can pull you into the fold at a company or lab , you 've got no issue at all . Here 's my advice if you are sending out cold-call applications : The issue wo n't come up in the application stage ( do n't mention anything negative about your experience in your cover letter , or your application will get trashed ) . The trick will be how to handle yourself during the interview stage . You say here : " in retrospect I see that I could have avoided a breakdown in our relationship if I had been more deferential . " You 're going to need a much better story than that . Because you are going to have to explain it at some point ( probably when someone asks why you have n't listed your old PI as a reference ) , and that line will throw up red flags about your ability to handle being managed . You 'll have to be prepared to talk about it in some detail , but focus everything on what you learned from it . How do you handle conflict better now ? Have recent examples ready of your excellent interpersonal skills . Avoid talking about this problem for more than a few minutes in an interview , but do n't hide the fact that you 've have this issue in the past . Employers will call your references , and chances are good that it will come up . Even if one of your references mentions it with you in the best possible light , if it 's the first time the employer has heard of it they will feel like you 've withheld information . While companies will generally not call someone you have n't listed as a reference , they will get in touch with everyone they know who may have also worked for your old boss , gotten a degree from your old department , collaborated with your old group . This may be an issue if your field of study is small . If you 've changed your research focus somewhat since then , this is less likely to happen . You can overcome this , but BE PREPARED . And once you get your first non-postdoc job , it 'll all be downhill from there .
Economics is not my field , so my answer is based on what I 've heard from other people . Generally , it is preferable if the job market paper has a sole authorship or at least if it is co-authored by other graduate students . However , I have heard of people getting jobs even with a job market paper coauthored with their advisor . Since you have two other papers , and one with sole authorship , that will to some extent work towards eliminating any negative impression that the job market paper may create . However , ultimately it will depend on your potential employers and the practices that they follow . Keep your fingers crossed and hope for the best .
Edited heavily based on further information provided by OP If you are going into industry , or pursuing a Master 's , it may hurt you in the short term A Master 's degree is mostly course work . It 's too short for you to create a body of work that stands on its own . The quality of the courses largely determines , consequently , the quality of the Master 's . Prospective employers may use an institution 's reputation as a heuristic/proxy for the quality teaching . Attending a less prestigious institution will make it more difficult to get interviews . Not being able to attend the bigger names also means you miss out on their alumni networks . Create a compensatory professional network that overcomes these limitations . Most Master 's in CS programs have a semester-long project . Make an impressive project and shop it around . This is a good way to build rapport with potential employers .
Assuming the journals you publish in allow it , you can submit your work to a preprint archive such as ArXiv.org . You can also put it up on a personal website . Even if someone tries to scoop you , if you work is ever published , the date it was submitted for review should appear in the final article , giving your work precedence on any other . As for your concerns about reviewers stealing your work , there is not much else you can do besides the above . The peer review system is based on good faith , and hopefully you end up with ethical reviewers .
I have had this discussion with my supervisors/advisors many times , all with positive outcomes . This is what I do : Be direct and to the point , it sounds like neither of you have time to dance around the issue . Offer alternative ideas/timelines/strategies , I found that coming up with a solution is appreciated as in the long term , it is going to save time . Be honest and truthful , state that you are overloaded - show how this is so , and either defer or decline the request . Remember , your time and well being is just as valuable , and any good advisor already recognises that fact .
Most postdoc offers come with the condition that the candidate will have a PhD by the time that they start the job . In many cases showing the PhD is part of the initial paperwork . If you want to start a postdoc with a document saying that all requirements have been met and the degree will be formally conferred at such and such a date , I think the only way to proceed is to ask the institution whether this will be acceptable . I do n't think you can predict the answer by looking through the nuances of the job ad . I was once asked by someone who had accepted a postdoc offer at my university ( UGA ) whether or not she could start the position with such a document . She came from an institution that only formally conferred degrees once a year . From my perspective , the key point is that I had no idea what the answer was , but I brought it up with my colleagues and the department head , it went further up in the university , and the answer came back : OK , so long as all requirements have been met . ( In the end the candidate decided to push harder and actually get the degree awarded in the summer before arrival . ) I have also seen a postdoc -- at a very prestigious American university -- started by someone who had not written her thesis by the time of arrival . The next semester she accepted a second , semester-long postdoctoral position and only around the end of the spring semester did I learn that she was still writing up her thesis . ( It worked out fine for her , and today she is a well-known strong person in the field . ) The idea of starting a postdoc before completing your thesis is one of those things that would simply never have occurred to me , but apparently it happens . As with most things , having a very influential advisor could n't hurt . ( My understanding is that in the humanities , it is relatively common for someone to start a tenure-track job without a PhD . They are then given a certain amount of time to complete their PhD while simultaneously navigating all the difficulties of their new job . This practice -- which is almost begging for trouble , in my opinion , and most of the stories I have heard that start this way end badly -- is all but unheard of in mathematics , because there is usually a postdoc done in between . You should probably have a PhD by the time you finish your postdoc ! ) Moral : you really need to ask . Let me end with a remark which leans towards the obvious : nothing is for sure until it happens , but if you have some specific reason to doubt that you 'll have a PhD by the start time of a postdoc , you should bring that up ASAP and ideally before you accept the position in the first place . In the current job market , there is no lack of qualified candidates with PhD in hand .
I believe that this is university based . To make a long story short , the university usually owns some form of copyright on your intellectual work and passes it to you when you publish . If any of said copyright is used for commercial purposes then you need to make a deal with them on a case by case basis , though there are standardised contracts . University will have a office devoted to this . If the company is unrelated to your field/work than there 's no need for such arrangements , but you still might want to double check with them . This is my understanding having seen a colleague going through some of this ( and eventually get told there was no need to make arrangements , essentially if is not something you devised or developed while working its ok )
You might get rejected without review . I would write the Program Chair now , explain your accidental submission of the wrong version of the manuscript , and ask for permission to resubmit the correct version .
As a student , you should not be required to fund equipment purchases yourself . Rather , it is your supervisor 's responsibility to work with you to scope a project that is within the funding that they wish to allocate to it . So if your supervisor wants to do a study with 15 people , your supervisor needs to have a sufficient budget to support it . Otherwise , you might end up , say , doing your work in simulation instead , which is much cheaper but less convincing in its results . Now , some students do buy small things themselves , especially if it is a low-cost " toy " that they want to play with themselves ( e.g. , a Raspberry Pi or a phone sensor pack ) and they do n't want to go through the delay and hassle of university purchasing . That 's an exception , however , and certainly not to be expected for a multi-user study .
or should I go into more detail like e.g. the history of the company ? No , in general , there 's no need for that : your thesis is not a company 's brochure . Provide enough information to present the context of your thesis , but do n't add too much unnecessary details . Anyway , I suggest you to discuss this also with your university supervisor : they surely know what is the policy or the tradition about this in the university , and they can act as buffer between possible company 's requests and university requirements .
Speaking as someone in field not too far from yours : sure , it would help if you had done all of the stuff you 've listed and written a paper about it . But having a bunch of conference presentations under your belt ( oral and posters ) is still pretty impressive ; and there are many applicants to Ph.D. programs without any research experience at all . The fact that you 've done research , and that your advisor thought it was worth presenting at multiple conferences , is a pretty big item in your favor . Oh , and it should go without saying that this professor should be one of your recommenders ( absent any major falling-out or other complicating circumstances . )
If you have submitted manuscripts to peer-reviewed outlets , you can say so . If you have anything under second-round review , be sure to say so because that 's all the better . If you have n't submitted manuscripts , you could do so . One of my peer-reviewed publications was originally a paper I wrote for a Ph.D. seminar . I blew the dust off , firmed it up and made it stronger , and I submitted it . It was a nice little paper . My point is that you have doubtless done work that you could turn into a submission with X weeks of work . Lots of people list their current research projects under a title such as " Current Research . " Beware that search committees know all the tricks . You 're not going to fool anyone . But , I 'm sure your goal is not to " fool " anyone at all . You just want to put your best foot forward , and there 's nothing wrong with that .
Your research does n't have less value simply because you uncovered problems broader than ( or different from ) what you chose to focus on . An equal way of stating the outcome is to say that your work has opened a door to at least one promising additional line of research ! We as researchers are facing the unknown ; we necessarily do not know what the results are going to look like ahead of time . Scientifically speaking , as long as the study is well-supported and well-designed , an unexpected outcome is precisely as valuable as a result that looks as expected and/or upholds a hypothesis . Your presentation will be better if it is self-assured . Confidently and straightforwardly , lay out what you did and how you went about it and what you have discovered , and put in a few slides at the end conveying some excitement about the potential inherent in the interesting things that your work is pointing the way towards . Every study has limitations , and good scientific practice is to acknowledge these transparently but not apologetically . No study can do everything . Knowledge is a collaborative effort , and we can build on each other 's findings if we have a good sense of what has been done how . My MA thesis , in retrospect , had a lot of things in it that I now know to have been oversimplifications . I did n't have a full sense of what was going on ; there was so much more to it than that ! But I could n't have gotten here from there . A master 's thesis is often a stepping-stone ; I 'd say that 's both natural and usually inevitable . If you feel as if there are signs of you needing to look beyond the scope of a master 's paper - I spotted some in mine as well ! - that 's what I 'd call a sign that you 're ready for a Ph.D. ( if that is your aim ) .
To the department . The point of publishing work is to share the knowledge with others . This will be more greatly achieved in your previous department where other professors and up-and-coming students can have access to your work . This would be better than your work simply sitting on your old supervisor 's book shelf . Your supervisor likely knows your work and therefore does not need a constant reminder sitting on his or her shelf . Also , I never knew an academic supervisor who cherished having a previous student 's work sitting on their shelf solely for sentimental reasons , which I think might be your motive .
end question
start question
What is " teaser image " ?
They want you to select either a figure or possibly a more creative rendering of your research , for the purpose described in your quote . Imagine your article was going to be a book , they want you to pick an image for the cover . If you do n't have eye catching data , try to figure out the most effective way to visually describe your theoretical work , and produce an image of that .
You 'll very quickly learn that being an academic involves more than just writing research papers . Your time as a postdoc is when you can start learning about these other aspects , while building your own profile . A postdoc needs to do the following : Build a publication record . This will involve both what you are paid to do and your own line of research . Get involved with supervising students . Help with the PhDs in the lab , and get involved in supervising masters students . Get involved with obtaining funding . This can either be by helping your employer or ( ideally ) obtaining your own funding . Build an international reputation . Start collaborating with external parties . Gain some teaching experience . This is absolutely crucial if you want a faculty position . Learn how to manage projects and a lab . This includes overseeing the progress of projects , allocating your time ( and others ) , presenting results at meetings and writing deliverables . If you are in a lab setting , you will need to learn how to fix/calibrate/maintain critical equipment and software so that you can start your own lab some day , and you will need to become proficient in teaching more junior members on how to use that equipment . Start to devise a strategic research plan . While it is fun to do opportunistic research , solving a problem that comes along or investigating any idea that pops into your head , a better long term strategy is to formulate an interesting long term research plan and follow it , building result upon result . Be as proactive as humanly possible , without being annoying . Talk to everyone in the department , especially people whose research interests are close to your . Go to conferences and sit down and work with interesting people ( not necessarily the superstars ) .
There 's nothing wrong with thanking God or other religious figures , and it 's not particularly unusual . It could upset people if you use the acknowledgments as a place to expound religious doctrine , but no reasonable person would take offense at simply thanking God and I 've never seen it cause any controversy .
Reasons for faculty turnover are more important than numbers . For example , in the late 90s , CS professors were leaving their positions to start companies . I also know of professors who left otherwise ideal positions to solve a two-body problem ( move near their spouse ) . One important component of faculty turnover is tenure denials . If you are a serious candidate , you should ask why your opening exists and the outcome of recent tenure cases . Another component is faculty taking advantage of early retirement offers . If a school is offering sweet deals for retirement , it may not be at its most financially secure . ( On the other hand , if they 're doing a tenure-track search , that 's a positive sign . ) If you can contact faculty who have left through your social network ( e.g. , if one of your committee members knew them socially ) , you might be able to get the dirt on the department . It also does n't hurt to look at the student newspaper , now usually available online . At one school at which I interviewed , my host stopped me from picking up a copy . I did so later and read about major problems between the faculty and administration that involved a lawsuit , the AAUP , etc. .
Ask your advisor . Your university is likely to have a maximum allowable per diem that is based on the city that the conference is in . It varies from university to university , but mine just pays the per diem for that city regardless of how much you actually spend . Many universities do it this way . It saves time and money processing expenses on a meal-by-meal and receipt-by-receipt basis . If your university does this , then it does n't matter how much you spend on yourself . Also , given that the per diem is likely capped in the $ 40 - $ 50/day range anyway , you are unlikely to blow your advisor 's travel budget on food even if you hit the max every day .
I do n't know if this is universal , but I do know that some programs require background checks for anyone interacting with individuals under 18 . For example , from the <URL> ( bottom paragraph on that page ) : Special note for Applicants to the Clinical Psychology Program : Consistent with Pennsylvania law , all students in the Clinical Psychology Program must satisfactorily pass required background checks that are intended to protect children from contact with individuals who have abused children or have been convicted of certain felonies ( including drug felonies ) , as is further explained here : <URL> . FBI , Pennsylvania State Police , and Pennsylvania Child Abuse clearances must be completed during the fall term of the student 's first year . Students may not continue in the Clinical Psychology Program if they fail any of these background checks or decline to submit applications to obtain them . Cost of the clearances is to be covered by the student . Given that many undergraduate students are underage , and given that as a graduate student you will almost certainly be interacting with undergrads as part of your teaching assistant and undergraduate mentorship duties , this is required for basically all grad students . I know that , at Pitt , this is n't just for the Psych program ; lots of programs have a similar requirement . Much of this is new since the <URL> events .
TV-L is the German public servant remuneration grade table ( Tarifvertrag fr den ffentlichen Dienst der Lnder ( TV-L ) ) . It is how civil servants Germany are graded for their salaries and similar conditions for their work . Depending on where your position is , you 'll be under TV-L West , or East , or Berlin , or Hessen . Something in your letter might specify this . Either way , there is information on the details here : <URL> Assuming you 'd be in West Germany , tax as a single ( i.e. not married or living with a life partner or children ) , this boils down to a basic salary of $ 2103/month with a net salary after all taxes and health insurance payments of $ 1383/month . This will increase as you remain hired , you 'll go up the staircase of salaries , going from 1 to 2 after 1 year , from 2 to 3 after an additional 2 years , et.c . Each step is a monthly salary increase of about $ 150/month net .
In some cases it might mean that the thesis could be published as a book . However , I 'd generally interpret the phrase to mean that the thesis could readily be adapted and published as one or more journal articles .
You need to cite the book , as that vouches for the provenance of the image ( including that it is of who it is claimed to be ) . If I 'd done that retouching myself , I would n't mention it as it does n't change the content ( it 's effectively undoing some of the effects of scanning an old image ) . A " ( retouched ) " might be appropriate , and certainly " ( enhanced to show ... ) " if that was what you 'd done . If someone else had retouched images specifially for a paper I was writing , they 'd deserve an acknowledgement , so here they deserve a mention . I would cite the original still , but with a note ( or the equivalent in your referencing style ) . Something like " ( via <URL> , retouched by user Garrondo ) " should be sufficient for academic propriety ( and should cover the CC requirements were that an issue ) .
A good definition from <URL> is Empirical research is a way of gaining knowledge by means of direct and indirect observation or experience . Empirical evidence ( the record of one 's direct observations or experiences ) can be analyzed quantitatively or qualitatively . Another good resource is <URL> is a further resource that goes through in detail the steps to empirical research , the 7 that are defined from that link are : Randomisation Control Reliability Validity Implementation of Treatment Variable Analysis Issues Implementation issues ( The full details are on the 2nd link - too much to fit here ) Hope this helps answer your question .
As I understand it , in a typical private U.S. research university the different colleges or schools that make up the university have no legal independence , and they are simply administrative units within the university . ( On the other hand , part of the endowment generally consists of restricted gifts , which can only be used in certain ways or by certain departments . This can give the corresponding parts of the university more power or independence in practice than one might otherwise suppose . ) Do the Colleges have members , and if so who are the members ? Are all the matriculated members , or just current students ? Are the faculty members of the College ? This is entirely a matter of university policy . Current students , staff , and faculty would usually be considered members of their corresponding colleges , but this can vary ( and some universities just are n't organized this way in the first place ) . In practice , this generally does n't mean very much : it may determine some requirements for students in addition to departmental requirements , it could be listed as an affiliation on your publications ( although departments are more common ) , it might give a few privileges such as building or library access , and it tells you how to fill out university forms , but it 's otherwise not a big deal .
My own work is on the STEM / hard science side of Academia , so I do n't have first-hand knowledge about this qualification , but I would read it as a <URL> . A cursory search turns up a few institutions that offer such a degree : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Some publishers ( ACS I 'm lookin at you ) have what they call GToC , which is like a ToC with small images . You might have seen such in some magazines , here 's <URL> . Accompanying the image is usually a short text that is sort of like a teaser for the article , in a way the coolest tidbit about what you have written . I believe that 's what they are asking for here .
From <URL> : Trade journals are geared towards professionals in a discipline . They report news and trends in a field , but not original research . They may provide product or service reviews , job listings , and advertisements . Scholarly journals provide articles of interest to experts or researchers in a discipline . An editorial board of respected scholars ( peers ) reviews all articles submitted to a journal . They decide if the article provides a noteworthy contribution to the field and should be published . There are typically little or no advertisements . Articles published in scholarly journals will include a list of references .
There are two ways to report your findings : Qualitatively and Quantitatively . Qualitatively is just using words . So you could say " we see good correlation between the datasets in the two experiments , but experiment A shows a slight bias at small time . " Quantitative analysis uses numbers . You could say instead " Correlation analysis shows both datasets are correlated with p < 0.05 . Experiment A shows a bias of 0.1 at times less than one hour , and the correlation coefficient of both datasets using partial data fitting ( I just made that up ) is 0.13 with a t-critical value of 0.2 .
It 's legitimate to contact the school and ask how they define that term , you know . There 's nothing wrong with admitting that you have n't run into this particular phrase before , or that you 're concerned that their definition might not be exactly the one you 're familiar with . " Better to ask and have them suspect you 're a fool , than to assume and remove all doubt . "
I 'm answering within the context of UK Research Council funding : Some Research Council funding is allocated on the basis of specific calls for proposals ( aka managed mode ) : so for example there may be a call to set up a Centre in End-Use Energy Demand , and universities ( or consortia of universities ) will shape proposals to deliver a Centre in End-Use Energy Demand . As part of the call , criteria will be defined about the sort of things such a Centre should deliver , that will be more specific than the usual - impact , engagement , publications - though they will not go as far as specifying particular research questions . Bid applications will be assessed against the usual generic quality and value-for-money criteria , but also against how well they meet the specific proposal criteria . However , other Research Council funding is allocated in responsive mode : these proposals are driven wholly by what the applying Principal Investigator wants to research , and as long as it is within the remit of the Research Council , it will be considered , and assessed on its own merits . That is , the assessment will be against general criteria , and whether it is at all on-topic or not for that Research Council ; but assessment will not be against how well it meets a pre-defined specification for a narrow research area , because for responsive-mode , that pre-defined specification does not exist . Here 's <URL> : Grants are awarded in response to unsolicited research proposals in any area relevant to BBSRC 's mission . As a general principle , BBSRC allocates as much research grant funding as possible in responsive mode . You can apply for a variety of investigator-led research activities through responsive mode . ... Applications are assessed by the appropriate BBSRC Research Committee using the standard BBSRC competitiveness appraisal factors . Responsive mode funding is only available to Higher Education Institutes and Research Institutes , whereas the funding in calls for proposals ( managed mode ) is available not only to those , but in addition it is also available to other <URL>
From Thomson Reuters <URL> ... the evaluation of and acceptance of a journal for the SCI or the SCIE is essentially the same with ONE major difference . The only difference is the storage media . SCI is only available on CD/DVD format ; however , SCIE is available online .
This is the response I received from my graduate program 's coordinator : It just means physically being here , so does n't have to be on-campus housing .
This is indeed a reference to the <URL> ( Oberwolfach Mathematics Research Institute ) , a conference center in the small German town of Oberwolfach . The Institute has developed a rather idiosyncratic style of meetings . The most common events are weeklong workshops on specific topics , whose participants are invited by the organizers . Speakers are chosen from among the participants on just one or two days ' notice . The talks are indeed relatively " low density " , perhaps 4 or 5 x 45-minute talks per day , so not all participants will give talks . Long periods are left unscheduled to encourage informal discussion and collaboration . The conference center is isolated and so most people do n't leave the campus during the week . Participants are housed and fed onsite and meals are communal . As Aru says , there are also measures to " encourage " a more social atmosphere : seating is assigned and changes from meal to meal , and Internet access is not available in the guest rooms until 10pm or so ( edit : Najib Idrissi 's comment below suggests that this policy has changed ) .
end question
start question
Should I choose a journal for submission from the journals I have cited and should I cite papers from the journal I intend to submit to ?
You have two different questions here . Should I decide the " suitable journal " for submission based on the papers in references ? " Yes you should " seems overly strong , but " yes , this is a decent strategy " as a starting point to figuring out where you might want to send the paper . You should look at other factors like how well that journal is rated/cited and respected by people in your field ( as a starting point to understanding this , ask your advisor ) . Is it necessary to cite papers from the particular journal for which I am going to submit my paper ? Not strictly " necessary " but a very good idea . What 's important is that you show how your paper fits in to the work that already exists in the specific field you 're contributing to . Probably , some of that work is in the same venue , so you should cite that work and show how yours is related to it . Some reviewers may feel more at ease if they see citations to the same venue and are convinced you 've described how your paper is related to the cited works . You should at least be checking your target venue for papers related to yours , so that you are n't seen to be missing on-topic work in that field in that venue , which reviewers may be more likely to be aware of and thinking of as they read your work . Be aware that when you 're describing those prior papers in the field and the gap that leaves , which your paper fills , that you do so respectfully ; the authors of those papers ( even if the papers are not in the same venue ) may be your reviewers . You should also look at papers in that journal and see how they are structured ( in addition to looking at how they are formatted ) . Is there a particular set of section headings that most or all papers in that journal have ? Are they typically in the same order ? Is there a common series of points that are made , especially in introduction sections ? If so , give your paper the same sections and sequencing , so that you overcome the antibodies that might reject it thinking " this just does n't look/feel/read like something that gets published here . " For formatting , follow the journal 's style guide/templates .
You have two different questions here . Should I decide the " suitable journal " for submission based on the papers in references ? " Yes you should " seems overly strong , but " yes , this is a decent strategy " as a starting point to figuring out where you might want to send the paper . You should look at other factors like how well that journal is rated/cited and respected by people in your field ( as a starting point to understanding this , ask your advisor ) . Is it necessary to cite papers from the particular journal for which I am going to submit my paper ? Not strictly " necessary " but a very good idea . What 's important is that you show how your paper fits in to the work that already exists in the specific field you 're contributing to . Probably , some of that work is in the same venue , so you should cite that work and show how yours is related to it . Some reviewers may feel more at ease if they see citations to the same venue and are convinced you 've described how your paper is related to the cited works . You should at least be checking your target venue for papers related to yours , so that you are n't seen to be missing on-topic work in that field in that venue , which reviewers may be more likely to be aware of and thinking of as they read your work . Be aware that when you 're describing those prior papers in the field and the gap that leaves , which your paper fills , that you do so respectfully ; the authors of those papers ( even if the papers are not in the same venue ) may be your reviewers . You should also look at papers in that journal and see how they are structured ( in addition to looking at how they are formatted ) . Is there a particular set of section headings that most or all papers in that journal have ? Are they typically in the same order ? Is there a common series of points that are made , especially in introduction sections ? If so , give your paper the same sections and sequencing , so that you overcome the antibodies that might reject it thinking " this just does n't look/feel/read like something that gets published here . " For formatting , follow the journal 's style guide/templates .
The question is : is this possible ? If you have signed over the copyright of your paper to this journal , or given them an irrevocable license to distribute , then they do n't have to take down the paper just because you have asked them . In fact , if they are a reputable journal and the paper has already been published , they should n't just take down the paper without a very good reason , because that would distort the scientific record . and what is consequences for submitting the same manuscript to another journal ? Submitting a manuscript to a journal that is already published in another journal is called " duplicate publication " , and it is considered a kind of research misconduct . Consequences can include <URL> , being banned from submitting papers to that journal for some period of time , or <URL> for some period of time .
You certainly can and it is often useful in the ways that Michael M. notes . However , there can be a downside in that it effectively reduces the number of useful letters of recommendation by one . In other words , the people in program who know you already know you . If they are on the admissions committee , then they will ( if they support your candidacy ) speak up for you . When advocating , it 's handy to have ammunition in the form of external evaluations . Scenario : I am a Professor at University X and I really want AS2045 ( who is at X ) to continue to the PhD program . I 'm also on the admissions committee . When promoting her case to my peers on the committee , I would find it more useful to have 3 outside letters that say she 's brilliant ( " Prof. A , Prof. B. and Prof. C @ OtherU think she is brilliant , and so do I ! " ) rather than 3 letters , one of which is my own -- making it effectively only 2 that I can use to argue my point . tl ; dr : If the person is on the admissions committee , then ask them for their advice -- would they prefer an external letter from another person or do they think their own letter would suffice . Note : If they are n't on admissions , then certainly include the internal letter .
I would recommend raising your concern to the editor . If the editor is honest , they will not ask the authors to follow the citations en masse . Given that the citations are all in the same journal , however , it is possible that the editor is part of the same citation cartel and may blow off your concern . In this case , it may be worth raising the concern to the publisher and/or one of the major indices . Citation cartels have been gaining attention in recent years , and if this is part of a systematic pattern of coercive citation , then those larger organizations may be motivated to investigate and sanction .
Yes , reviewing papers is an integral part of your job now , and a very beneficial one at that ! It 's true that the first papers you will review will take you quite a bit of time , but it 's a sound investment ( unless you consider dropping out of academia next month ) . You 'll improve your reading and ability to read between the lines . It will help you gain a wider view of what others are doing in your field , because it will force you to really go through the paper in depth , not just skim over it as we are so often forced to do when a paper is not at the core of our own research . Moreover , it will give you invaluable experience when you write your next papers , because you will be able to put yourself in the reviewer 's shoes ! You will see better what could be problematic for a referee in the presentation of your work . As for whether you should list it on your CV : <URL>
You must cite them ! Failure to cite photographs and figures is just as much plagiarism as stealing quotations . To some extent , it is tougher to use pictures from other sources , because you need to make sure you have the permissions to use them . You should add the citation in the caption , as well as the requisite acknowledgments required by the author or publisher .
If a graduate school requires transcripts from all your undergraduate institutions , then I would understand that to include the university you attended for just a year . Under the circumstances you describe , the content of that transcript should not have much effect on the admission decision ( or on fellowship offers ) , but omitting it seems risky because it could get your application rejected ( or ignored ) on a technicality .
Yes , it is absolutely ethical to use these files during your research . Many publishers allow academic authors to upload a so-called " preprint " version of a paper to their own institutional websites or put them in repositories , and of course these can be used by others in research . There 's maybe just two minor things to be careful about : You should try to verify that the preprint version is mostly up to date with the published version , comparing e.g. publication dates . It is common practice to put the " official " publication source , i.e. , the journal version , into your reference list . Nevertheless , if you ca n't make sure that the versions are equivalent regarding what you 're citing them for , it may be necessary to state that you were using a preprint version . In some cases , authors may put papers online even though it 's technically a breach of copyright . But since you do n't know the author 's agreement with the publisher , you have no way of checking that , and in any case , it would be the author or institution that violates copyright , but not you .
I agree that honesty is the best policy , and it 's too bad if you 're in a situation in which you feel worried about admitting you do n't know the answer . You should n't try to bluff , by pretending you know but do n't have time to explain or by giving an intentionally vague answer . However , there are ways of handling it more smoothly than just saying " I do n't know " and leaving it at that . Depending on the circumstances , you can say " That 's a really interesting question . I have n't thought about it , so I 'll have to look into it , but let 's talk about it in office hours . " ( Or you can promise to return to the topic in the next class meeting if it 's really relevant to the course and everyone in the class will want to know the answer . ) Or " These issues can be complicated . I do n't know the details off the top of my head , but the place I 'd look them up is Reference Work X. I 'd be happy to show you where to find it after class . " Or " That 's a good question , but it 's somewhat beyond the scope of this class . I 'd be happy to investigate it with you outside of class . " The key is to respect the student 's desire to learn . If you avoid the question or give an answer you know is inadequate , then you 're being deliberately unhelpful . If you just give up and admit defeat , then at least you 're being honest , but the student still is n't finding out what he/she wanted to know . If you respond by pointing the student on the road to an answer , even if you ca n't supply it off the top of your head , then you 've done everything that can be expected of you .
That 's pretty common , a lot of journals offer to move your submission to other journals of the same publishers . Why do they do it ? Well , if they think that publication is worth anything ( will get cited ... ) they can indirectly make money with that , so the publisher wants to have it . Now why would n't they just accept it then ? There are two reasons . One would be it 's not good enough for that journal but it 's good enough for another , which does n't seem to be the case here . The second one would be that it does n't fit into that journal for whatever reason ( likely here ) . In both cases they will offer you the possibility of that other journal . For Wiley an example would be Angewandte Chemie and Chemistry - A European Journal . The latter is somehow a collecting tank for rejected publications in Angewandte Chemie and it 's also the journal for Full Papers , as Angewandte Chemie does only accept Communications . ( And well , all the editors there are in a certain field of chemistry , so nowadays submissions which were in scope some years ago now get rejected with " not in scope " ... )
I 've never heard this about " Future Work " . Items that you put in this section are simply things that you are currently considering , and someone else who does them should at least cite your original work . However , anyone who beats you to actually doing the work should be able to publish it . If you want to make it absolutely clear that you do not intend to work on this material ( and , you never know , you might end up going back to it later anyway ! ) , simply call the section " Further discussion " or just " Discussion " .
It is n't much clear as to why Mr. K would insist you to work with Ms. E . It might be either of the following It might most probably of Ms. E 's suggestion/influence . They might be on the same team ( @virmaior 's point ) Mr. K has just got another student he prefers over you . To figure out why and how to react bases on why , @demitau 's suggestion would be most appropriate ; speaking openly with Mr. K should provide a solution . If the answer to the last question is what you require ( how to let Ms. E know I 'd rather work with Mr. K ? ) then the most diplomatic approach is to say something like this : state that you feel much honoured to work with her . But it seems you current research interest are much inclined to that of Mr. K. Hence the decision .
PhD admission committees look for evidence of your ability to successfully complete the PhD program . Published papers can be a big hint that the answer is " yes " . Unless it can be argued that the journal is a predatory one , I would suggest mentioning the published paper in your application if you think that the paper is of good quality . Even when the journal is not so well known ( but has good standards ) , it shows that you can perform the type of work expected from you if they choose to accept you .
This really depends on your audience . At a department colloquium , I assume very little background , probably an undergrad degree in math , but not even an undergrad class in my research area . Here the audience will often be smart , but ignorant of the relevant background . At a research seminar with lots of undergrad and/or masters students , I still do n't assume much background , maybe an undergrad class in the area , but even then I " remind " the audience of important information they " should " know . At a research seminar with mainly PhD students and active researchers I assume more , but even here I usually do n't assume that they 're familiar with the problem or the relevant literature or techniques . A conference special session ( or minisymposium ) is similar to a research seminar with mainly PhD students and active researchers . Here I often expect that much of the audience is familiar with the background and the techniques , but I still usually review them at least briefly . I 've never gotten complaints about giving too much background and context . I never assume the audience has read any of my papers . I typically view my talks ( at least in part ) as advertisements for my papers . The audience will never want to read my paper if they do n't see why it 's important ( so that 's my job during the talk ) . For those few that already want to read the paper , I hope they leave my talk with an outline of the paper , which will make it easier to read . Any time you 're talking to an audience with varied background , it 's good to briefly describe the key definitions . If you can do this quickly , perhaps only verbally , you do n't bore those who already know , and you give the rest a fighting chance to keep up .
I would be pragmatic here . Citations are a currency in science . If the authors of a tool help your research by providing the tool to the general public , it is only fair to reference their work in the way they requested it to happen - and , certainly , citing a given reference in a paper that uses their work is not an unreasonable request . I can not image why it would be unethical to say something like We have used Theano [ 1 ] to evaluate XY ( ... ) in your paper , where [ 1 ] J. Bergstra , O. Breuleux , F. Bastien , P. Lamblin , R. Pascanu , G. Desjardins , J. Turian , D. Warde-Farley and Y. Bengio . " Theano : A CPU and GPU Math Expression Compiler " . Proceedings of the Python for Scientific Computing Conference ( SciPy ) 2010 . June 30 - July 3 , Austin , TX As to whether this is common , I would say yes . Most authors of well-known tools in my area specify a preference for how their work should be acknowledged . If you are bothered by not having read the paper you are citing , there is a simple fix for that - read the paper , and decide for yourself whether it is worth citing in that context ( but , generally , the answer will be yes ) .
There are two different types of value judgement that you are discussing here -- communication goals and grading -- and I think it 's important to carefully separate them . Communication Goals : I think that it is unfair to a person who is n't a native English speaker to not expect them to aim for the same goals of clear and lucid communication . When giving feedback , do n't brush over the language and grammar errors just because a person is not a native speaker . They should have the same chance to learn and improve as anyone else . Grading : Unless the class is about English grammar , making English quality a significant part of the grade is generally a bad way to evaluate a person 's work . If the language is bad enough that it interferes with your ability to understand the class-relevant content , then yes , that 's a problem and should receive proportional demerits . If the class-relevant content is clear , however , it 's questionable to me whether any points should be taken off at all . In short : grade very generously on language issues , but point out the mistakes so the student can continue to learn and improve .
When an article is technically wrong , describes things that have been done dozens of times elsewhere or is just awfully written , then I recommend rejection , no matter the journal . After that , journal guidelines ( not the perceived or actual journal " quality " ) come into play : Match with the journal 's scope Journal requirements on novelty of ideas ( several journals are ok with articles that fill some gap in an otherwise well-understood field , but some very high-profile journals would like to see papers with significant novelty ) Methodological requirements ( e.g. some journals require that simulation results are validated against analytic results or measurement results ) So , there is some baseline , but afterwards it depends on the journal scope .
It depends how well-known and wide-spread the result is . If by now it is a very well-known result and the publication already happened quite some time ago , it may not be necessary to quote the original paper . In doubt I 'd quote the article and the books , or at least one of the books . A possible formulation could be : The result below is due to Paul [ reference to article ] ; we recall it in the form given in a monograph by Miller [ reference to book ] . I do not think it is necessary to have read the original paper to be entitled to write this . If it is not too much work to track it down , it could still make sense to at least take a peek at the article you quote .
There are no problems associated with you reviewing a paper again , regardless if it resubmitted to the same or a different journal . Since you have seen the paper earlier and know its earlier problems you can better judge how it has improved and to what extent it is now publishable . You should definitely let the editor know that you have been involved in the process of this paper earlier even if he/she has not indicated the paper has been rejected somewhere before . That information provides the editor with a better perspective of the development of the paper and can make the decision to accept or reject easier since the willingness or capability of the author ( s ) to improve the manuscript is set in perspective . You can always contact the editor and state that you are willing to take on the review but felt it was necessary to convey the information . I do not see it as necessary but it is of course a nice gesture .
end question
start question
How common are PhD interviews in the U.S. ?
In my experience , it 's typical for a US university to invite PhD applicants for a visit only after they have been accepted for admission . The purpose of this visit is primarily for the school to make a good impression on the student and try to convince the student to accept their offer of admission . An interview is not normally a required part of the application process . However , one of the best things you can do to increase your chances of admission to a particular graduate school is having a professor there who wants you to work with them , and who will lobby the admissions committee on your behalf . In order to get this kind of connection with a professor , you will need to meet them and establish a rapport well in advance of applying to the university , and it 's possible that the professor will want to meet you in person as part of that process .
Almost every aspect of the job has politics invovled . Who teaches which classes , on what days and in which rooms . The distribution of TA support . What committees you serve on and what roles you play on those committees . Which lab space and office space you get . Rotation of sabbatical and research leaves . If there is any departmental funding , how it is spent . The hiring of new faculty and the admission of PhD students . I have even seen fights over what types of pens are kept in the supply closet . Generally as a new faculty , there are certain thing in your contract and other thing agreed to verbally and in emails . In toxic environments , and even in some good environments , these things will come under attack . Even things in you contract will come under attack from colleagues who want to take advantage of you . That is not to say it is all bad and not all colleagues will be out to get you . In good departments there will be more people looking out for you and only a handful of bad apples .
The value is going to be hard to quantify , as it will likely depend on you , the people reading the application , your field , etc. . It will range in the eye of the reader somewhere between " 0 " and " Less Than a Published Paper " . Things a Paper " In Prep " Does Do : It shows you 're thinking about research enough to want to write a paper about it , and have engaged in actually doing so . How big of a deal this is alone likely depends on your field , institution , etc. . If you give an interview , it gives people a targeted thing to talk about . I 've been asked questions about a manuscript ' in submission ' before , because the interviewer thought it sounded interesting . These kind of directed questions , in something you 're hopefully very comfortable talking about , are probably more useful than " So ... tell me about yourself . " Things It Does n't Do : Critically , it does n't actually show that you can write a paper . It shows that you can write something you 've decided to call a paper , but the key act of academia , getting it published has n't happened yet . Depending on how well your advisor is known by the admissions people , you might get some credit for " Dr. Superbigdeal would n't let anything come out of her lab unless it was solid gold ... " but I would n't count on it . Or alternatively , I could submit my draft and wait for the reviewer 's opinion , so I can put mark the paper as " in review " . This will serve as a proof that my work is mature enough to be seen by others . But is it worth it ? I 'm not sure this will meaningfully change the value of a paper . Getting it published ? Major shift in its value . Shifting from in prep to in review ... distinctly less so . Because again , it 's lacking that last critical piece of being actually accepted . The difference between the two can be as trivial as a few buttons on a website , and personally , I would treat the difference as such .
A doctoral degree is a credential signifying largely that you are capable of doing independent research at the highest possible level . It is not , in an of itself , a ticket to working in a particular industry or in a particular location any more than a bachelor 's or a master 's degree . In fact , PhD holders may have substantially more challenges in those aspects , because the additional qualifications make them unattractive for many positions in conventional businesses and industries . ( You are unlikely to find a PhD working in a sales division of a multinational conglomerate , for instance . ) The reason to get a PhD is because you are interested in problem solving and doing original work . If this does n't describe your motivation , I would recommend against pursuing a graduate degree , because it will be a very long few years of your life which are not guaranteed to achieve the objectives you 've laid out .
The simplest solution to this problem that I can think of is just to use Mendeley ( or service with similar functionality ) that allows people to form groups ( public or private ) , based on their research interests . Then , all activity , such as adding relevant papers , etc. , automatically appears on group members ' news " wall " , plus they can set up e-mail notifications and such . For more details , see corresponding Mendeley 's pages : <URL> and <URL> . Obviously , solutions for more complicated research workflows will require more specialized software tools : open source , commercial off-the-shelf ( COTS ) or custom built .
There was over 80 for the position I applied for a few years ago , at a Dutch neuroscience institute with a good reputation . I imagine there would be more at world famous universities in the US . I hear that most of the time , most applicants are n't that good , even the top 10 % who make it to the interview . In my case the best candidate got the position , and the one ranked second ( me ) got an offer for a position later on ... so in the end it was one out of 40 .
To me it seems that your defense will decide whether you will get the grade 1.3 or 1.7 . You will certainly not fail . During my PhD it was roughly 2/3 the written thesis and 1/3 the defense , which is divided equally in your presentation and the rigorosum . However , for you I think this is not relevant since your Gutachten gave different grades and your performance will decide whether Gutachten 1 or 2 is " right " . If I were you I would take the defense seriously and be prepared for the topic the professors are going to ask you . Often professors give some hint on the topic or might even tell you in advance . You should know that 1.7 will be rounded to 2 , so I think it will be a " cum laude " vs. " magna cum laude " . So it makes a difference . To my knowledge virtually all grades are summa cum laude ( 1 + ) ( approx 20 % -30 % ) , magna cum laude ( 1 ) and cum laude ( 2 ) . So cum laude is practically the lowest grade , although it is a 2 . BTW : For the summa cum laude ( the distinction ) you need 1.0 in both Gutachten and also make an excellent presentation , where professors test you for your limits . Professors often use it to indicate that they think you are ready for the academic career . Also during selection of some programs of the DFG it is expected to have such a grade . I hope this does answer your question .
As a faculty member , I try to respond to all prospective students but many times the questions are too vague , tautological , or impossible to answer : Will I get in ? Impossible to answer . Will you work with me if I get in ? Tautological . If you are in my field of study and you get in , it 's likely because I want to work with you . But I do n't want to say yes because that may be misread as saying that we will accept you . What are the strengths and weaknesses of your program ? Not easily answerable , self-serving if I deem my own area strong and likely to insult faculty in the areas I deemed week . Tell me more about your research . Too open ended . My CV is online . I do n't mean to sound harsh but questions that can be easily answered are the most likely to get responses . Faculty do welcome e-mails from prospective students , especially those in our fields . When you get 150 + applications , it might be easy to miss someone in your specific area , so a personal message saying that you are applying is always welcome ( especially early in the semester -- Sept or Oct -- before things get crazy ) . Questions that are n't answerable on our website are also welcome ( for example , not all department websites list which students are associated with which faculty ; asking about our team members in those cases is welcome ) . If you pique our interest ( and we have the time ) , we may ask for further info from you -- for example , a paper you wrote or other writing sample . While I try to send a simple " thanks " ack message to these responses , I may be asking for something in November that I wo n't look at seriously until February with the other application material . So do n't take the lack or brevity of acknowledgement to mean anything significant . Note that we may not want to send an e-mail prematurely closing down discussion as we may feel that this is rude to an applicant who may have more questions . So we are in essentially a typical asynchronous communication hang condition . That being said , I do often wish that I could respond in http status codes :
Update on 2016-06-28 : The UK Government has <URL> . The short answer is " We do n't know yet , but for a PhD program likely not . " The terms of Brexit have not been negotiated . They will <URL> start to be negotiated if and after a vote to leave wins the referendum . ( So that 's the " we do n't know " . ) On the other hand , it will be at least two years after the vote before the actual British exit from the EU ( presumably to negotiate and to allow a graceful transition ) . If you are starting a 3-year PhD program this fall , there 's a good chance that the negotiations will not have concluded fast enough to directly affect your research . Source : <URL> writes If the UK left the EU would UK citizens need special permits to work in the EU ? Lots of people asked about this . A lot would depend on the kind of deal the UK agreed with the EU after exit . If it remained within the single market , it would almost certainly retain free movement rights allowing UK citizens to work in the EU and vice versa . If the government opted to impose work permit restrictions , as UKIP wants , then other countries could reciprocate , meaning Britons would have to apply for visas to work . What about EU nationals who want to work in the UK ? As explained in the answer above , it would depend on whether the UK government decided to introduce a work permit system of the kind that currently applies to non-EU citizens , limiting entry to skilled workers in professions where there are shortages . and How long will it take for Britain to leave the EU ? This was a question asked by many people . The minimum period after a vote to leave would be two years . During that time Britain would continue to abide by EU treaties and laws , but not take part in any decision-making , as it negotiated a withdrawal agreement and the terms of its relationship with the now 27 nation bloc . In practice it may take longer than two years , depending on how the negotiations go .
At my large R1 state university in the U.S. , it might be impossible to get tenure without having an active grant at the time , even with an otherwise excellent record , since mathematics faculty disinterested ( or hostile to whatever the specialty or person in question might be ) would use this as grounds for doubting the quality . After all , supposedly , all the best people are funded . Supposedly , endorsement by the NSF ( or NSA ) is an external , objective test of quality . This is certainly a convenient assumption for arguments in certain directions . EDIT : and since a strong super-majority is needed for a " positive " tenure vote , even irrational ranting can sway otherwise uninformed or disinterested people to scuttle the vote . Issues of external funding are apparently even more identified with research activity by engineers ( and experimental scientists ) , who often dominate the college-wide tenure ( and promotion ) committees . That is , it is sometimes apparently unimaginable that a person would be doing research without a grant . Further , at my university , in other hard-science departments , often large grants are allowed to " buy out " faculty from any teaching at all . This is rare in my math department . EDIT : thus , in the minds of some engineers , " teaching " is stigmatized , since in their own depts it 's only the disenfranchised who have to do any of it . And then there 're the wildly different paper-count standards for experimental science/engineering versus mathematics . The literal " funding of research " usually is less critical , apart from the expense of travelling to conferences , and extra summer salary .
The tools you state are prototypes developed by the authors . They may not always have enough rank to be easily Googled , so the best place to search for them would be the respective institution sites and author sites . For instance , MAPO can be found in the corresponding author <URL> ( although you might need his consent to access it ) . MICA is available <URL> with copyright by Carnegie Mellon University . If that does n't work , the best thing to do would be to mail the corresponding author requesting the required access to the software .
I 'll try to give a general answer from a non-CS perspective . tl ; dr : yes , there are errors out there . A lot of errors , clerical and not , even in oft-cited papers and books , from any field . It 's inevitable : though they do their best to avoid errors , authors are human after all , and reviewers are humans too ( I know , you never find a damn robot when you need one ) . Thus , whenever you read a paper , maintain a critical thinking . EXAMPLES I 'll start the too long section with an anecdote . When I was working at my master 's thesis , some twenty years ago , I needed a result published in a much cited paper from a renowned author in the field of electromagnetics . At the time , ( almost ) young and inexperienced , I thought that papers were always absolutely right , especially when written by recognized authorities . To practice the technique of the paper , I decided to rederive the results : after a week spent redoing the calculations over and over again , I could n't find the same final equation . I was able to discover the correct equation - the one I was finding - in a book published later by the same author . Indeed , it was a clerical error that absolutely did n't change anything in the paper , but it was annoying and taught me an important lesson : papers and books contain errors . And , of course , I later published papers with mistakes in equations ( not for revenge ! ) [ * ] . After that first experience , I 've discovered that you can find more fundamental errors , even in well known books and papers . I 'll give you here a few examples , taken from different fields , to underline how broad the phenomenon is ( in bold , the mistaken claim ; within parentheses , the field ) : ( Classical mechanics ) In Newtonian mechanics , the correct equation of motion in case of variable mass is F = dp/dt . This statement can be found in many classical books about newtonian mechanics , but it is plainly wrong , because that equation , when the mass is variable , is not invariant under Galilean transformations as it is expected in Newtonian mechanics ( actually , the concept of variable mass in Newtonian mechanics can be misleading if not properly handled ) . For a deeper discussion see , e.g. , <URL> , <URL> and Spivak 's book Physics for Mathematicians , Mechanics I . As a curiosity , that wrong equation is used by <URL> in <URL> as an example to introduce the memristor . ( Circuit analysis ) Superposition ca n't be applied directly to controlled sources . It was just a few years ago when I came across this statement for the first time , and I was stunned : hey , I 've applied superposition to controlled sources since I was in high school , and I 've always get the right result . How it possibly ca n't be used ? In fact , it can be applied , the important thing is to apply it correctly , but there are really many professors ( I have several examples from Italy and US ) who do n't understand this point and fail to notice that the proofs of several theorems in circuit analysis are actually based on the applicability of superposition to controlled sources . For more on this , see e.g. <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . ( Thermodynamics ) The Seebeck effect is a consequence of the contact potential . This false statement can be frequently read in technical books and application notes about thermocouples . [ * ] Update 31/08/2015 : apropos of my own errors , a couple of weeks after having written this answer I discovered an error in an equation of a published conference paper which I co-authored . A fraction that should have been something like - A/B became B/A . Hey -- I told one of the other authors -- how could we possibly have written this ? And how did it get past the reviewers ? The fact is , that that equation was associated to a simple , well-known , example given in the introduction , an example so simple that probably neither us authors nor the reviewers gave a second look at the equation ( of course , how can anyone write this wrongly ? ) . I feel that many clerical errors like this one happen because of last-minute changes to notation : you have almost finished the paper and you realize that you could have employed a better notation ... so , let 's change it on the fly ! And here is where certain errors sneak-in . Avoid last-minute changes , if you can .
Extremely uncommon I understand that interviews are fairly common in other fields and in other countries , but they are rare in computer science in the US . In my experience ( student , postdoc , or faculty at five different American CS departments ; multiple years on graduate admissions committees ; dozens of recommendation letters for CS undergraduates applying to graduate school ) , very few ( if any ) American computer science departments include interviews as a standard part of the PhD application process . There are rare exceptions , though , usually involving prospective advisors calling up applicants directly . The most common reason for a phone interview in my department is to assess their English fluency , especially when the applicant 's test scores are borderline , or there seems to be a discrepancy between their test scores and the fluency of their statements . I 'd be surprised if this happens more than 10 times a year , and we get 2000 grad applications each year . When I applied to Berkeley 's PhD program , I was already a PhD student at UC Irvine . My future advisor and the director of grad admissions called me to ask why I wanted to move when I seemed to be succeeding in my current program ( good advisor , good research progress , and so on ) . I suspect they also wanted to understand the discrepancy betwen my grad school grades ( good ) and my undergrad grades ( terrible ) . In short , as long as there 's nothing borderline or non-standard in your application , it 's unlikely that you 'd need to be available for an interview . And even if someone does want to interview you , they 're much more likely to want to do it by phone or skype than in person .
There are some general guidelines for choosing members of a PhD committee : They should have some enthusiasm for the work that you do . If they 're not invested in seeing you succeed , you wo n't get as much utility out of that committee member as someone else who might not be as knowledgeable , but is more committed . They should have the time to be on your committee . If they 're extremely busy , then it does n't help to have them on a committee , because it will be difficult for them to attend the meetings -- or it will make scheduling the meetings a nightmare . They should not have conflicts with either you or your advisor . A thesis committee is already a somewhat political body . There 's no need to add extra politics to the situation by having interpersonal or professional conflicts before the committee even begins to meet ! Collectively , there should not be a power " imbalance . " If your advisor is a new assistant professor , do n't overload the committee with a bunch of full professors holding named chairs , and vice versa . When they will set preliminary exams , there 's the additional qualification of : The committee members should be familiar enough with your area that they know what it might make sense to test you on , but not so familiar with your work that they turn it into a " gotcha " game .
A post-doctoral position is not usually part of a " program . " It is not like graduate school , leading some kind of higher certification . It is a job , doing research in a specific area . Hiring is done individually by the senior researcher overseeing a position , and what they may be looking for is highly variable . Some people may hire based primarily on people 's publication output as graduate students ; however , in most cases I am familiar with , hiring is done based on a holistic view of the candidate . For example , when I applied for a post-doc in theoretical particle physics , I had only one publication out ( and another one submitted ) , based on my graduate work . However , I came from a top graduate program , and I had a very strong letter from my advisor . I had to apply for a lot of jobs , but the one I eventually got was with somebody who had research interests very close to my advisor 's . ( The two had collaborated once , briefly , some years in the past . ) I had a very broad background ( having taken a lot more classes than most graduate students at my institution ) , and based on this and my advisors strong recommendation , I got a job . One of my professors in graduate school had told me explicitly that it was much more important to learn a lot in graduate school than to publish a lot of papers . You are not going to get the opportunity again to broaden your base of knowledge in the same way , and how many papers you publish is probably less important than learning and networking and making a good impression on senior people . Once you have a post-doc , that is the time to really crank up your research output ( to four or five papers a year in theoretical physics or applied mathematics , if you want to get a good faculty job ) .
There are usually 4 ways to pay for a PhD in my experience in the US : Out of pocket with your own money or with loans Get a fellowship or scholarship Be a Teaching Assistant Be a Graduate Research Assistant None of these are necessarily mutually exclusive . TA and GRAships usually come with a whole or partial tuition waiver or payment of tuition . Fellowships and scholarships may come from the university , another government entity ( e.g. the US National Science Foundation or Department of Energy ) , or a private source . In my estimation , a GRA or fully-funded private fellowship is the best way to pay for graduate school for those whose focus is research because there are no teaching or grading responsibilities to take time away from working on your research . If you intend to go on to a professorship , starting with a TA for the first few semesters or years may help you learn something about teaching , but I would n't have wanted the TA responsibilities during the time I was writing up my dissertation . Myself , I had a GRA with my full tuition paid plus a small privately endowed fellowship administered by my university which supplemented my income . Also , at the time , having a GRA position gave me health insurance . TA and GRA jobs are usually limited to 20 hours a week during the long semesters in the US since you are likely to be in classes at the same time . My advisor frequently upped me to 40 hours per week during the summer and winter breaks to supplement my income further . Paying your own way , whether with fellowships , loans , or your own personal savings means that you are n't being paid by the advisor . A GRA position may be required to focus on a particular research project that funds the existence of the position . If the money comes from their start-up package or a private source , then you may be given much more freedom in your choice of research work , but either way , the GRA position is a job that allows the advisor to direct your work much more than if you fund yourself .
Note that both professors have their European degree from Bocconi . Double degrees appear to be a Bocconi ( and some other universities ' ) special . For the MSc level , it 's explicitly mentioned on their web page as a highly selective option ; see , e.g. , <URL> . But you also find an economics PhD program <URL> participating in a partner university 's course work and studies , the AEEP . It is not explicitly mentioned that you 'll get two PhDs - and you probably wo n't on a general basis - , but if you get close to a professor abroad during your year , and start your research with them , it does n't seem a stretch to think you can negotiate two . Note that one of the current partner institutions is Northwestern , as in one of the examples you linked , while the other ( Berkeley ) is not mentioned . This might be due to changes in times , or simply to the professors linked not having been part of this particular program . But as Bocconi is apparently very active in these international cooperations , it seems highly likely that both were part of one of them . The bottom line is that , in my opinion , it will be very unlikely that you 'll find a U.S. institution at which you can get a second PhD in only one year if you have n't been part of such a program , where the second degree is a natural and fairly minor extension of your work predominantly in Europe .
To answer your specific questions , schools are generally trying to admit the best applicants ( who will choose to come ) , not just a group of people of the right size over a certain threshold . So if an international student appears to be a stronger candidate ( evaluated the same way any other applicant would be ) , the international applicant is likely to be preferred . Graduate students are generally funded based on packages that do n't take into account where the student 's from , so it 's not generally more expensive . ( International students may be less likely to accept because the funding is less likely to enough , but that 's no reason not to admit them . ) Finally , why would international applicants be any less trustworthy or appropriate than domestic ones ?
( 2 ) A department offers PhD studentships . After admission , students can choose their supervisors or the department will assign them to available professors . In this case , how the capacity of each faculty member is determined to accept PhD students from available students of the department ? This is generally the norm in US universities . How the capacity is set depends on various funding-related factors : Does the department support all incoming Ph.D students via fellowships ? Then there 's a budget associated with this . Does the department support all incoming students via fellowship or teaching assistant positions ? Then based on estimated enrollment of students in courses there 's a rough formula estimating number of TAs needed each year , and this factors in how many students are leaving . Does faculty funding support students ( either from Day 1 or eventually ) ? Then the department will solicit information from faculty on how many students they expect to support that year , and make calculations accordingly . All of these are estimates , and can go wrong . So departments usually need some kind of cushion when doing calculations to adjust for that . While departments might " assign " students to faculty when they enter , this is probably for administrative purposes so students do n't slip through the cracks and have someone they can approach early on . Typically students and advisors choose each other once the students arrive .
It never hurts to specifically check with your undergraduate advisor and the desired graduate school 's admission office just to make sure . My understanding is that as long as your current university acknowledges your completion of the undergraduate program ( regardless of whether you physically have the Bachelor degree certificate or not ) prior to you officially beginning your graduate program , then there should be no problem . But like I said , you should check in with your undergrad advisor so that they can inform you of any lingering policies or concerns .
end question
start question
How much does TA experience impact acceptance into PhD programs ?
From my perspective admitting students to CS PhD programs : TAing for CS classes will be a small positive signal that you did well in those classes and were well thought of by the instructor ( who presumably asked you to be his TA , or at least accepted your application ) . It might also let you get to know the professor teaching the class better , which will be helpful for your application if he/she can write you a letter of recommendation . But beyond that , it wo n't be a huge bonus in and of itself -- its mostly a signal correlated with other good things .
Measure theory is essential for higher level probability . However , I believe most graduate schools will have a graduate course on measure theory . Thus it is not absolutely necessary to have learnt measure theory before entering graduate school .
Are there examples of conference proceedings that have a formal IF figure computed ? There is nothing like the " formal IF " . What you are referring to is probably the <URL> impact factor which is one of the most respected measures in the academic world . As such , to my best knowledge there is no such thing for conferences . However , there are other sources which could prove useful as an estimate of conference quality : As already Charles pointed out , there are exist cached versions of <URL> , but this is too old to be useful . Furthermore , Google Scholar lists ranks of top venues mixing journals and conferences in their listings . <URL> , as you might see , there are several conferences mixed in . They list <URL> of the venue instead of an impact factor . Another very useful , resource for ranking conferences is <URL> , where you can find profiles of conferences , such as <URL> and they also publish rankings for different categories of venues , see <URL> . Finally , you might find useful the Australian Research Council 's <URL> from 2010 . In 2012 they decided not to rank conferences any more , but the 2010 list is still very useful and at least somewhat authoritative . They would rank conferences into categories according to their own quality metrics , which however ( at least in my area ) correlate with the community 's perception .
The other answers make good suggestions for the asking of questions or posing ideas to professors . Most professors are open to questions and new ideas . I personally love it when my students come to me with something that I had n't thought of before . As for getting recognition , it depends on the relationship between the Ph.D. student and the professor . If you , as a grad student , ask a poignant question at a visiting professor 's lecture , and then the professor returns and gets his or her group working on the matter , the you will very likely not receive any further communication about the matter . You will , however , be able to determine if your question had an effect when the publication came out . If nothing else , you can have that warm little feeling that something came of your question . If you , as a senior graduate student , pitch something to your adviser that is relevant to your project , your adviser should listen . At some point you know more about your project than your adviser does . I pitched many things to my adviser over the years . Sometimes I was shot down , and then did them anyway . One of my questions , however , transformed the direction of my thesis work . I started and finished a whole new project in my last year based on an idea I pitched . Senior graduate students weighing in on other projects going on in their group also tend to get listened to , and occasionally acknowledged in the publication for " helpful discussions . " Yes , sometimes those names are graduate students . For one example I know of , see the acknowledgements in <URL> . " The authors would like to thank ... ... Mr. Benjamin N. Norris for helpful discussions . "
Different institutions have different policies on robes for faculty members at graduations , although most will arrange for robes for faculty who do not have their own . However , if you take advantage of this option , you might not get much choice in your regalia - so if the institution that you are graduating from has its own particular design for regalia that you love , it might be worth getting your own . I have heard that there are institutions who will require that all faculty members wear the same design of regalia for graduation ceremonies , in which case spending a lot of money on a non-traditional set - which you then can not wear at commencements - would be less than optimal . Since you have an assistant professor job lined up , you could just ask someone at your new institution what the policies are there .
You do not a have a leg to stand on , legally , morally or otherwise . The thing you should actually indict them for is not responding to your emails . That is rude ; I think you should probably accept that as an implicit rejection . If they were still thinking of admitting you they would have checked on your status by this point . The issue with your argument is that it does n't actually follow the text of the resolution . The binding part of resolution you cited says " Students are under no obligation to respond to offers of financial support prior to April 15 . " So , schools have agreed not to withdraw an offer because you have n't accepted it before April 15th , and not to try to hold you to an offer you 've accepted if you change your mind before April 15th . The school in question has held to their end of the bargain perfectly , since they never made you an offer . The resolution says nothing about the school having to make a decision before April 15th . Of course , schools are well aware that it will be much harder to get people after April 15th , so they make an effort to make offers earlier . However , this is not a deal , this is the department acting in their own self-interest . Unfortunately , there 's too much uncertainty in the process to guarantee you 'll make all offers before April 15th . After all , you have some plan for what your incoming class will be , you make offers to many more people than that , and you hope that you guessed the yield correctly . If the people who 've already been offered admission are waiting until April 15th to make up their minds , you 're then left with a great deal of uncertainty as the deadline approaches , since it will be a big problem if your incoming class is such bigger or much smaller than you planned . Thus , there often are people who you are not sure you want to reject , but not sure you have the money to fund . In my department , we still have a number of people waitlisted , since we have n't filled our class yet . Usually , such people will be formally notified they are on a waitlist ; I think again , that 's in the department 's self-interest and helps clarify things for the student . So , again , it 's likely this is an implicit rejection , which for whatever reason they have n't bothered to formalize .
On the European research market , various opinions have been offered on the use of h-index by ERC grant evaluation committees , and the broader relationship between h-index and ERC funding success . People who provide such opinion can be classified in three categories : affiliated with the ERC consultants whose business is to offer advice to ( potential ) candidates individuals involved in another way , whose advice is most probably only anecdotal So , what do the first two categories have to say ? The official word from the guidelines is , well ... absent . But it is politically correct to assert that h-index is not a good indicator of scientific quality and , as such , not used . This gives <URL> like : Quality in science is not proved by accumulating quantitative points . The role of commercial impact factor and h-index is limited . Overemphasizing of publish or perish policy leads to a gradual perishing of all . On the other hand , practical advice might be a bit more <URL> : There will also be a new h-index study the successful 2011 awardees in the PE and LS domains . The h-index is regarded as a background indicator rather than a determining factor and the study on the 2010 Advanced Grant awardees showed that each panel made awards across a considerable range and that there were significant differences across the different ERC panels . There was a big variation between different disciplines within the main domains . and <URL> : Every applicant had to choose his 10 best publications published in the recent decade and add how many times each of these papers were cited in the literature . The total number L of these citations describes well how the scientific community perceives their recent achievements . These numbers were provided by the ERC in the dossier of every applicant . However , during the evaluation process the panel did not put much emphasis on any bibliometric data . It was the opinions of the experts which did matter , not the bare numbers . Only after completing the evaluation process , I realised a correlation between these data and the final outcome . To give another perspective : in France , a new evaluation system for higher education and research was put in place 5 years ago ( the newly created agency performing the evaluation is called AERES ) . AERES evaluates each research group every 4 to 5 years , in order to give it an overall rating , which could be A + , A , B or C . This had at least two very practical consequences that I know of : For yearly financial negotiations between each university and the Ministry for research , the ministry started to require a spreadsheet with the number of university teams rated A + , and the number of A team ( B and C did n't seem to count ) . Financial support was then dependent on that number , at least as a starting point for the negotiations . It became customary to include this grade in your French grant applications , because a A + rating was considered a serious advantage . This was written in the " rules " , however ... So , all in all , are bibliometric and , speaking more broadly , academic indicators really adopted by institutions ? Hell yeah ! They make deciders ' job easier : quantification of research quality makes it easier to make decisions . Smart decision makers do realize , however , that a single indicator does not make for good decisions .
Be honest and be yourself . Students will latch on to your discomfort and will use it as an excuse for their performance . I have found that if you are honest with them with a statement along the lines of " I am new to teaching , so please be patient while I work out my teaching style and get more comfortable . If you have any concerns about how class is going , please speak to me as soon as possible . " they are much more forgiving of your mistakes which you are bound to make . There is nothing worse than students who feel they can not pass the class due to your teaching , so allowing them to voice their opinions early can both help in your teaching ( i.e. , " You stand in front of the board too often . " or " It would be more helpful if you spent a little more time going over X. " ) and in your students attitudes towards you . But be careful on this front , make no instantaneous decisions . I always will say something like " I will think about it and get back to you next class if the policy X needs to change . " Always get back to them about it , even if it is a no . Additionally , talk to other grad students and faculty if you are finding you are having problems with teaching . I would be surprised if your department or university had people did not staffed just for training of instructors for teaching duties . Talk to them and voice your nervousness , they are there to help . Even think about all your classes and what the professor did that you hated or liked and try to emulate the best attributes as best you can . But do n't try to be these people , just be yourself . The key here is talk to everyone , do your best , and be yourself . Since you 're just starting out , I do n't believe that they would throw you in cold into a classroom and say " teach " without any forewarning or even knowledge of which class , but they might depending on where you are ( and talk to other people about what to do quickly if possible ) . You will probably start out grading and/or doing recitations/review sections a few times a week until you are more capable/comfortable with maintain your own class . Good luck in teaching and studies ! I always think being able to explain what you know to other people is a true sign that you know it yourself . Addendum : The books that earthling suggested will always help . If you are in mathematics , I also suggest <URL> by Steven G. Krantz . Even though it is written for those teaching math , it is also a good read for almost any new instructor , particularly in the sciences .
This may not directly answers you question but I found it useful when applied to grad schools in the past . <URL> results shows different applications results for institutes . Applicants usually put their GRE scores and GPA along with the decision . Most importantly , some applicants communicate with their school and write something really useful as a note ( like # of application received/accepted/rejected ) .
As soon as you are sure , or April 15 , whichever is sooner . You have no ethical obligation to answer before the April 15 deadline , especially if you are waiting for an offer from another department . On the other hand , it would be nice to answer earlier if you can . So it would be nice of you to contact your current department 's admissions committee ( either directly or through your lab director ) , tell them that you have another admission offer but would prefer them , and ask if they 're likely to offer you admission . If they have n't decided , it would be nice of you tell them about your April 15 deadline and ask them when they expect to make up their mind . ( I 'm assuming that you prefer to stay in your current lab . If you 'd rather accept the pending offer , even if you got an offer from your current lab , then what are you waiting for ? If you 're not sure , then what more information do you need ? )
My undergraduate GPA was much lower than yours . My MSc GPA was also lower than yours . I got admitted to a top 40 US school ( engineering and fully funded ) . I had good recommendation letters and few journal publications . This was five years ago . I know there are few guys here who have similar GPA , etc as your . So , It 's very possible !
Not always . At some universities ( such as the one where I presently work , the official decision to admit a student is made at the dean 's level , rather than the departmental level . In such cases , the department recommends admission ; such recommendations are almost always accepted , unless something irregular has happened in the admissions process .
Excellent question ! I put it down as experience anyway , but it seems to be shrugged off more often than not , as it was considered necessary as part of a degree . When I was applying for jobs , I got a call from one where the guy went over my resume over the phone , saying things like " And you do n't have ANY industry experience ? You did n't even do an intership ? What were you doing over your summers ? " to which I could only give the flabbergasted reply " Doing ... research ... " So , yea , I 'd definitely put it down as experience . But do n't think that people will necessarily take it too seriously , sad to say .
Begin with the assumption that there are good reasons for the change : professors rarely make a large change in a course without thinking about why ( it 's just too much work to bother ) . Rather than beginning with your judgement ( which might or might not be justified ) , open with an observation and a question , something like : I was looking at my old notes , and I 've noticed that the examples have changed a lot and gotten significantly more complex . I was wondering if you could tell me a little bit more about how you 've changed the course and why ? Maybe the professor actually wants the class to be harder ; maybe they just wanted it to be more current and do n't realize it became harder as well ; maybe you are overlooking something ... all of these are possible , and until you understand how the professor is thinking about it , you do n't have enough information to figure out how to proceed .
If you are able to resolve the authorship dispute , then clearly that would be the best solution . On the other hand , if you are unable to resolve the dispute ( at least on a timeline compatible with the conference 's schedule ) , then not only is it ethical to withdraw the paper , but in fact that would be the only ethical course of action . Basically in this situation you have no reasonable choice and you simply have to withdraw the paper , which is why it is clearly ethical despite the fact that it means you will have wasted the time and effort of the organizing committee and reviewers . With that said , even though withdrawing the paper is ethical , there may still be some hurt feelings and a small amount of loss of credibility on your and the other coauthors ' part , so it is important to do all you can to minimize the damage by being as honest and transparent as you can about what happened and about your motivations . As Anonymous Mathematician points out , just telling the organizing committee that there 's an authorship dispute might come across as a lame and possibly suspicious explanation . What I would do is make sure to include in my withdrawal email : an apology ; a relatively detailed explanation of the nature of the dispute , which establishes the claim that withdrawing the paper is the only reasonable course of action open to you ( if there are some highly sensitive or personal details , you can omit them , but try to provide as many details as possible to make your claim that you have to withdraw as credible as possible ) ; an apology ! Specifically , acknowledge that you should have sorted out the authorship issue before submitting the paper and that you and the other authors are at fault for not taking proper care on this matter . Make it clear that you understand what went wrong and will be more careful in the future . My feeling is that with the proper explanation , no one will bear you any hard feelings for creating this somewhat awkward situation -- reasonable people understand that these things can happen ( as Anonymous Mathematician points out , in rare cases they can happen even when everyone is behaving reasonably and has the best of intentions ) . Your reputation will survive . In any case , letting the paper be published when there are unresolved issues surrounding authorship is almost certain to lead to a much bigger mess and much greater damage to the reputations of everyone involved .
The importance of any single metric is binary and its value ( important or not ) depends on the size of the department . If the department is big admissions committees use metrics to weed out candidates . Basically anyone with GPA/GRE below X is triaged ( does n't matter what school you went to , how good your references are , etc ) . Smaller departments generally look at all applications . Once your applications is looked at , it is considered as a whole . There is no formula by which good GRE scores can offset a bad GPA . Obviously a better GPA does n't hurt , but you really want to worry about the things you can control . For example , good research experience tends to trump everything else .
First , a note : the editor ( or editors , or editorial committee ) is solely responsible for the decision to publish or reject a submitted manuscript . Reviewers are often ( not always ) called in and their reports provide help to the editor in evaluating the manuscript . But , at the end of the day , it is the editor who makes the call , so the situation you describe is possible and not necessarily unethical . It is , however , very unusual , both for the editor not to follow the unanimous recommendation of the reviewers , and even more so not to explain their rejection any further . You can definitely ( and , in my opinion , should ) contact the editor to : express your surprise at the rejection , given the contents of the reviews ; ask whether it may have been an administrative error ( with the nice streamlined web-based editor interface , a simple misplaced click might have lead to the current situation ) ; if the decision is deliberate , ask the editor if he may expand on the reason behind the rejection . Of course , be professional and polite . If after contacting the editor you are not satisfied with the answer , the only way forward is to appeal the decision to the editor-in-chief or the full editorial board . Details on how to do so should be found on the journal 's website . This should not be done lightly , but if you do not get a decent reply from the editor , it seems warranted by the facts of your case . You may , however , want to consider sending the manuscript to another journal , as it will take much less effort than the appeal ...
The issue with getting a letter from a post-doc is not their job title ; it 's the degree of experience they have with different students , and the authority with which they can judge their preparedness for a graduate program . So , it 's not that a letter from a postdoc is unacceptable and as soon as they have an assistant professorship everything is great . There 's a subtle continuum where the more experience someone has , the more weight their letter has , because they have known so many more students . Also , this is a bit more cynical , but humans are social creatures . It 's well-nigh unavoidable that they give more weight to a letter from someone they know personally . A postdoc is much less likely to be well-connected and thus able to leverage this for you .
No , you do not need research experience to get on a UK MRes progamme . Though it will help . It may vary by institution ; this answer is based on the one MRes from my subject area . The <URL> has the following prerequisites ( taken from that linked page ) : Good numeracy and literacy and an ability to present ideas clearly An appreciation of the importance of behaviour and society in energy demand An understanding of or ability to learn basic physics and engineering concepts Strong performance in a science , engineering or social sciences discipline The course , in its first half , contains a lot of taught material . This covers , amongst other things , research skills . Having research skills , or a research track record , will help you with getting onto the more competitive courses , such as this one ; and it will improve your chances of getting your study funded too . One of the selection criteria is ( ibid ) : how your academic and professional background meets the demands of this challenging programme so if you can show a research track record , that will help fulfill that criterion .
Work experience normally refers to internships or part-time jobs you 've done with companies besides your university , or actual employment positions in your university such as working in the library or grading papers . Research experience is related to academics , so it should be treated as such . I know you get paid for it , but it 's used to augment your undergraduate experience and thus adds value to your degree .
end question
start question
Is a researcher with the same name in a different field likely to cause confusion ?
First , you do n't lose anything by adding initials . They will make it easier to search for your name in databases , until the day comes when academia has a unique/canonical researcher ID scheme in place . If you have a middle name ( or middle names ) , you can use those . If you do n't , just choose a " pen name " by adding initials , chosen to make the combination of your name + initials unique ( for now , of course ... you can not do anything about someone having the same name and starting to publish in a few years ) . I recommend doing that . What can happen is that other people searching for your publications in the future might miss your first three papers . But if you have a publication list on your webpage ( you have a webpage , right ? ) , it 's no big deal . Also , three seems like a large number now , but it will not always be that way .
There is not a fixed set of rules for what is considered plagiarism ( e.g. , " 5 or more consecutive , not quoted words " ) , although <URL> are available . Unless entire paragraphs are copy-pasted , each case has to be evaluated on a single basis . As for a partial sentence , it is likely not considered to be a bad case of plagiarism . That said , it depends on what the actual sentence is about . Are <URL> plagiarizing each others because of that partial sentence ? Certainly not . If the partial sentence was about a particular discovery reported in a particular paper , and that partial sentence was copied to a new paper as if the sentence belonged to the new paper , without a direct quotation . . that would likely be considered as a candidate for plagiarism . Quite for sure , it would be considered as plagiarism if a reference was missing , as well . You might have some fun taking <URL> .
Life can be simplified without resorting to wearing a set of uniforms . While uniform is the ultimate form of simplicity , when your are the only one doing it in a place that uniform is not a norm , people may perceive you wearing the same piece of clothes everyday even you change into a clean set daily . It 's easy to explain it to an acquaintance , but difficult to clarify if a professor has decided that you 're unkempt . They can not really come up close and sniff you so visual clues are the only clues . We can get the best of both world by simplifying the wardrobe while keeping the maximal versatility . One of the common concepts is <URL> . Here is an example : <URL> By using different combinations one can get different looks from Mon to Fri with only a few shirts and a couple pairs of pants . Designing a capsule wardrobe does take time but it 'd serve you well for a couple seasons or even longer . Tips to make one are available online . Here are some general points : Plan for the shopping instead of base on impulse . Decide on a set of color schemes that are easily paired , colors along grey , blue , and brown scales are a good start . I often pick one accent color ( currently green ) for more variations ( e.g. a tie or socks with green patterns ) . Start small . For a season , I found 3-4 tops , 2-3 pants , 2 pairs of shoes , and 1-2 jackets seem to do the job quite well . I do n't wear suits for the current position . Buy quality stuff , especially for coats , suits , wool sweaters , and shoes . It 's actually not that difficult . I tried it last year . I cleaned up my closet , and then just find some scheme online that I like and modify them to the colors and style that I wanted . So far I can pick out my clothes without even thinking about it and I never felt I 'm wearing the same thing day to day . Hope this helps !
The question , although reasonable , seems hard to answer in general terms . Programmatic change is generally not done by individual faculty members in a department , but by groups and/or committees of them , in confluence with the department Chair/Head . Many programmatic changes do not " go through " the Dean -- in particular " day to day " business usually does not -- but those involving nontrivial financial changes usually do . For all but the smallest colleges it is rare for individual faculty members other than the Head to have substantive conversations with the Dean about such things : again , it would be better if they went through the department as a whole and/or the Head . When it comes to financial outlays that must be approved by the Dean : I 've seen plenty of instances where the Dean approves but " just does n't have the money , " so I would have to think that even mild disapproval of the initiative would sink it pretty thoroughly . Perhaps the most useful thing I can say is : look at where the program is now and look at where it was in the recent past . If you are really unhappy with the current position or the perceived trajectory of the department , then you should not count on being happy with it in the future ( no matter who the Dean is ) . Conversely , if those look reasonably good to you , talk with the faculty and see how they feel about the future . If there 's some important change coming around the bend , I hope they will let you know . But it is more likely that being in the department for the next ten years or so will be roughly like having been in the department for the last ten years or so . The Dean does not reside in the department , so unless s/he is actively at war with the members and interests of the department , some disagreement in the overall vision need not affect the actual working life of a professor in the department unduly . By the way , the bit about the Dean " may leave in the next 5 years " sounds way too vague to take seriously . Maybe s/he will and maybe s/he wo n't . If s/he does , maybe the next Dean will be better or maybe worse . It is very hard to plan for the future with regard to this kind of thing : honestly , I probably would n't even try .
I think the method you 've proposed , while cumbersome and intrusive , is also the correct way to do things , as you will be assigning a specific item to a specific source . That is the point of citing original source material in the first place . So while it may be somewhat unsightly ( particularly if using a Harvard-like style in which the authors are listed as part of the reference ) , what you 're doing has the advantage of being unambiguous and completely legitimate .
The <URL> was created in the 1960 's to solve this problem . It 's like a PhD , but it does n't require original research for the dissertation . The goal is to prepare students for teaching careers that do not involve research . Several universities in the U.S. offer DA degrees in mathematics , but they have never become popular . Many people are n't even aware that such a degree exists , and those who know about it generally consider it inferior to a PhD . Even institutions that do not expect their faculty to conduct any research at all often prefer to hire candidates who have some research experience in the past , in which case they would prefer a PhD to a DA . ( And many institutions require at least a little research to get tenure . ) For most people , getting a DA would be a bad idea : the time and effort required are comparable to a PhD , with worse career prospects . However , there are some narrow circumstances in which it could make sense . For example , some institutions ( particularly high schools and some community colleges ) do n't require a doctorate at all but pay a higher salary to faculty with a terminal degree . In that case , a DA might work just as well as a PhD .
You do n't say which country/cultural context the applications are for . I 'm familiar with the UK setting in particular . Here , there is no problem using the same research proposal for different applications -- it 's even expected . There is the additional wrinkle in the situation you describe that one potential supervisor might be investing significantly in the development of your proposal . If you were to go to a different institution , having made good use of that contact 's input , then it would also be reasonable for that contact to be a teensy bit hacked off -- unless there were mitigating circumstances ( e.g. appreciable difference in funding levels ) . Generally , however , it will be expected by potential supervisors that applicants will be testing the waters at more than one institution ( they ought to advise applicants to do this in any case ! ) . Transparency should not be a problem in most cases ( i.e. , inform your contact that you are , in fact , applying elsewhere too ) . Unless you 're dealing with a prima donna/primo uomo , that should n't be an issue .
Why not just make three lists of publications ( one for each field ) and place each with its own subheading under the general heading " Publications " ? i.e. : Publications Biology pub 1 pub 2 Astronomy pub 1 Mathematics pub 1 pub 2
I do n't think there can be any studies to confirm or deny something like that , simply because neither " good teacher " nor " good researcher " can be quantified objectively without bias , and in the absence of that , how can you compare ? But qualitatively , I think the conclusion naturally follows in most cases - both require one to be enthusiastic about their subject in the first place , and require a certain depth of comprehension before they can either publish their results or interact with inquisitive students successfully !
This would be an excellent time to use the Latin sic : ( " thus " ; in full : sic erat scriptum , " thus was it written " ) inserted after a quoted word or passage , indicates that the quoted matter has been transcribed exactly as found in the source text , complete with any erroneous or archaic spelling , surprising assertion , faulty reasoning , or other matter that might otherwise be taken as an error of transcription . <URL> It is commonly used as a suffix in bracketed form after a citation e.g. Charmley , John ( 2006 ) . " <URL> " [ sic ] or used after an erroneous word or passage She wrote , " They made there [ sic ] beds . "
You can use to search for phrases in the title ( no space after the colon ) and similarly you can use to search in the body .
Yes , this is a problem . You should not submit the same work to more than one journal at a time . This applies regardless of language - merely being in a different language does not make the actual work unique . Further , consider some practical considerations - a simultaneous submission means that you 'll have to go through peer-review for both papers and ( assuming you do n't get caught and summarily rejected ) presumably have to make some changes . What if the changes do n't align ? Now you do n't have two translations of the same paper , but two subtly different papers in two languages . If you 're genuinely interested in making your paper more accessible , either post a translation online , or wait until one paper is accepted and then approach a journal in the other language about posting a translation .
I ca n't imagine that anyone would object , as long as the abbreviation is widely used by people who work at the university . ( UCLA is fine , but I would n't call it UC Los Angeles , since I believe that 's a much less common abbreviation . ) In fact , repeatedly writing out " University of California , Los Angeles " is more likely to stand out as strange than using the abbreviation UCLA is .
I do n't think you need to be too formal here . Just include whatever information you believe is relevant , for example : Master 's Thesis : " Topic " , at University X , supervised by Prof. Y. Theses are different from regular publications anyway .
An MBA is a professional degree designed for students who will go to work in industry and not pursue further graduate study or research . Students in MBA programs typically all take the same courses in lock step with very few electives or options . It generally is n't possible to specialize in a particular area in an MBA program . In that sense , an MBA program is very much like medical school or law school and totally unlike graduate study in engineering and the arts and sciences . Students in MBA programs usually have several years of full time experience working in low level corporate jobs after completing a bachelors degree . Because they have had some exposure to the corporate/business world , the courses that they take draw on that experience . In comparison , the Master 's in Management is a professionally oriented degree program aimed primarily at students who have just completed a bachelor 's degree . These programs tend to be more theoretical simply because students have less practical experience to draw on . Many business schools also offer professionally oriented masters degrees in more specialized technical areas ( e.g. a Master 's degree in mathematical finance or operations research or analytics . ) PhD programs in business schools are typically very separate from MBA programs and the students in the PhD program will typically take very few if any courses with the MBA students . PhD students take more theoretical course work , take advanced courses in an area of specialization ( e.g. accounting , finance , marketing , etc. ) take course work in research methods , and then conduct research and write a dissertation . If you 're just completing a bachelor 's degree and want to get a masters and go to work in industry , than a Masters in Management is the typical path . If you 're just completing a bachelor 's degree and want to become a business school professor then a PhD program would be appropriate . If you 've had several years of experience in business and want to move up in management , then an MBA would be the typical path for you .
When do you call a researcher a computer scientist ? A runner is someone who runs ; a writer is someone who writes ; a researcher is someone who does research ; a computer scientist is someone who does computer science . So if you 're doing computer science research , I will call you a computer scientist and a researcher , even if you are n't yet published , even if you work full-time as a plumber , even if you 're still in junior high school . Is there a certain level of experience after which the researcher will be called a computer scientist ? No . There is nothing you can do to make other people call you anything . But to call yourself a computer scientist , the only requirement is that you are doing computer science . So in that sense , yes , there is a certain required level of experience : More than zero .
My guess about the situation is that your prior rejections will not significantly affect the editors ' opinions on your new submission . However , the fact of your prior repeated rejections is evidence that you are misjudging the suitability of your papers for that journal , either the aptness of the topic ( s ) , or the level and quality . Thus , if I had to wager , I 'd bet that you 'll be rejected again ... not because you were rejected before , but because the factors in play that led to your prior rejections will most likely manifest themselves in the present case . So , really , you should get more-specific advice from an advisor or mentor about appropriate venue ( s ) for your papers , as well as possibly critiques of the writing style .
Some conferences explicitly encourage ( or even require ) poster presentation of papers . In this case , there is typically an option to simply request that your existing paper also be given a poster slot . Thus , it may in fact be quite reasonable to seek to present in both ways , if the conference supports this . It would not , however , be appropriate to submit a separate poster paper that pretends to be different than the accepted paper . That would be self-plagiarism , and the conference organizers might look very badly upon you for doing that . I would thus recommend getting in touch with the poster chair and asking if they allow accepted full papers to have an accompanying poster as well . If so , that 's great , and you probably do n't need to submit anything more than a formality at most . If not , then accept that there will be no poster and do n't submit anything !
Between name changes , use names , transliteration , etc. , this is a rather common situation , and copyright forms are generally well designed to allow graceful handling of it . Most copyright forms that I have encountered include two separate places where you put a name : A list of the authors , in which you should write all of the names exactly as they appear on the paper . A signature line , in which an authorized signer ( in this case , yourself ) should place their usual signature , in the same form that you use it for other legal documents . There is no actual requirement that these names be identical , just that the authorized signer take legal responsibility for the assertions of the document , including asserting that the list of author names is appropriate . In fact , for some authors , their organization may not allow the author to be the person who signs the document ! Thus , if you write your name on the paper as " author " and you write your legal name for signature , this should be fine and appropriate . If , somehow , you encounter a form that does not make the distinction between the two names , then I would say it is highly likely that the organization issuing the form must be rather sloppy with regards to handling copyright in any case , and you should not worry about it .
Scholar.Google.com , IEEE , and ACM After every major conference in your field . See 1 , find a paper , then follow its references and the papers that cite it . Repeat .
end question
start question
Is a PhD ( economically ) still worth doing ?
If you look at income alone , it 's definitely not worth it - assuming you do n't live in a country in which " Herr Doktor " is still highly regarded , and an almost must for high-end jobs in politics and business ( like in Germany or Austria ) . In industry , there are a few jobs ( chip design for Intel or quantitative hedge funds come to mind ; maybe in consulting it 's a toss up ; certainly there are others ) where it might help . There are also jobs where it 's required to have a PhD ( some chemistry research , or such ) , or at least very beneficial . But outside these somewhat rare positions , HR will put you on a pile called " non-standard degree " which is largely ignored , and you rely on personal connections or quantitative recruiters to even get your foot in . If you end up in academia as tenured faculty , you get a decent salary with a wide range ( e.g. , at the top end , Business School finance assistant professors lie around $ 200k at good schools , to a low end that 's a fraction of that if the school or department is less wealthy , or the field less supported by industry ) . But if you 're smart and driven enough to get there , you almost certainly could have long made partner at McKinsey by that time , where you wo n't go home with less than $ 1m . I think the term " still " in your title is a bit off . I do n't think this ever was different . You should write a Ph.D. as you 're passionate about a field , look for independence , and genuinely love what you 're working on . And you should be aware early , and accept , that this is not a choice made for the money .
It depends on the university and the country . In England , a PhD is typically awarded for a thesis and oral examination of the thesis , usually followed by implementation of corrections to the thesis , the requirements for which are specified during or just after the oral exam . It 's often done soon after a Masters , which is done soon after a Bachelors , so a fairly large proportion of PhDs are awarded at the start of one 's academic career . Whereas a DSc is awarded for a portfolio of work , ( in some cases submitted together with an over-arching critique of that portfolio ) , and thus is more likely to be awarded later in an academic 's career . Nominally , a PhD is a doctorate in philosophy , but is typically awarded for pretty much any subject . There are some who argue that philosophy of knowledge always form part of these studies , regardless of the subject . I occasionally use this line to try to inspire students , myself . A DSc is a doctorate in science , and is not awarded for literature , law , divinity , or music , each of which has its own dedicated higher doctorate . The DSc is a higher doctorate than a PhD , in England . In some other countries , they 're equivalent . Both get the honorific title doctor .
Of course , whether it is a good idea can only be known in hindsight . But many PhD students work as private tutors , so if it sounds interesting to you , you might as well try it . Some things to consider : It will probably take you some time to prepare for each lesson . And unless your students will come to your home or office , also account for travel time and expenses . Four hours of lessons per week may require significantly more than four hours of your time . What will you do if your students are late to their lesson , or do n't show up at all ? What if they do n't study for their lessons ? What if they are late in paying you ? What if they ( or their parents ) demand some different style of tutoring than you had planned ? What if they demand that you just do their homework while they Facebook ? Consider the time it will take you to recruit students . Assume that they will quit unexpectedly , requiring you to find new students and lose income in the meantime . Do not count on your tutoring fees as steady income . Ethical issues : if you are working as a teaching assistant or something similar , you can not be a private tutor to students who are enrolled in your class . Check for other ethics or conflict of interest rules that your university may have . In particular , although your university office may seem like a convenient place to meet your private students , this may not be allowed .
Once you have a t-t position , you 're in a race against time to get as many publications as you can before your tenure clock runs out . A postdoc effectively gives you one more year of focused attention to research and publications before you have to start teaching . Note that teaching can be highly disruptive to research and publications , especially in your first year .
I 'd recommend trying to gather some objective data on outcomes . For example , in the <URL> you can search by " name of school " and " year of degree " to find a list of people who graduated in 2014 or 2015 . It 's not guaranteed to be complete , and it sometimes mixes together people who were in different departments at the same university , but it 's usually pretty good ( and sometimes easier than finding this information on math department websites ) . Then you can start googling people , with " math " appended if necessary , to see what you can find . If you ca n't find any indication that someone is working in academia , then they probably are n't . If they are , then you can gauge how pleased you would be with such a job . This should give more reliable data than self-reported difficulty of finding postdocs , because it avoid filtering through the departmental culture . Some cohorts of grad students are optimistic and enthusiastic , while others are more apprehensive , and it 's not clear to me that this correlates particularly well with actual success on the job market . It 's also worth keeping in mind that the relevant issue is job opportunities , not actual outcomes . If one person complains about the difficulty of finding a job and another does n't , you ca n't conclude anything without knowing where they were applying . ( Sometimes students at more prestigious universities apply mainly to fancier postdocs , because they would n't be happy with less prestigious jobs . ) Unfortunately , this is more difficult to gather objective data on , but I think it 's a second-order effect .
Yes , it is fair . The quality of reviews written by highly experienced researchers is low . Many manuscripts have obvious flaws that should be spotted by the inexperienced . Reviewers are ( in theory ) supervised by the editor . Novice reviewers are more enthusiastic than experienced reviewers . If the paper can not be understood by a PhD student , it will not be useful to very many people . PhD students may have more specialized expertise because they work on fewer projects , as compared to senior researchers ( per @nayrb ) Of course , it depends on the individual PhD student . Some are better prepared to review than others .
Is it possible ? YES . Will it be likely ? NO . The funding model depends entirely on the institution who is funding you . It is ultimately up to them as to how you will be compensated for your time and effort . If you are concerned about sustaining yourself through your study there are other avenues which candidates pursue such as lecturing/tutoring , marking and being a research assistant . Additionally there may be other scholarships available to you from the university or from external institutions .
In general , this kind of result might be worth publishing , also in top journals . However , it is impossible to tell without knowing the specifics . It might well be something that has been known as a " folklore result " for long in your field . Luckily , you say that the leader of your research group is the major expert on this . So , ask him and not a random bunch of people from other fields you found on the internet . If you have already asked and he disagrees , chances are that he is right . But if you disagree and insist that it is a major breakthrough , you can still write everything up , put it on arXiv , and wait for feedback from other researchers .
I suspect that most people who ask about the possibility of doing multiple PhDs are missing something fundamental in what a PhD is and what it 's for . This is an understandable misperception because the general populace knows little about what PhD programs are all about , to the extent that even most people who enroll in a PhD program think they know what they 're getting into and then find out that what they had in mind is an approximation to the truth ( sometimes a good approximation and sometimes not ) . In the various fictive media ( novels , comic books , television , film ... ) having multiple PhDs -- often in confluence with a very youthful persona or explicitly pointed out that they were attained at an early age -- is a standard trope for a certain type of characterization : depending upon the genre it can signal super-genius types , intellectuals , or nerdy/socially awkward types . For instance , Professor Charles Xavier graduated from Harvard at the age of 16 , and he holds PhDs in Genetics , Biophysics , Psychology , and Anthropology as well as an MD in Psychiatry . This is obviously meant to be a real-world grounding for his vast mental powers . On the TV show House , the youthful medical student Martha Masters has previously attained PhDs in applied mathematics and art history , and the characterization is less positive : they are not trying to suggest that she 's a genius per se -- House is the genius ! -- but rather that she has an extremely overachieving personality type . Of course , Charles Xavier and Martha Masters are fictional characters . Moreover I imagine they were written by people who are not so familiar with PhD programs . In real life , having PhDs in Genetics , Biophysics , Psychology and Anthropology is not the hallmark of a super-genius : rather it would mean that the person is pathologically obsessed with graduate study . PhD 's are not merit badges -- more of them is not better . Rather a PhD is the necessary and grueling training for a specific type of professional career . If you are interested in a subject then you read and learn about it . You get a PhD in a subject because you want that subject to be an essential part of your career ( which of course ought to imply that you are very interested in the subject ) . Moreover , although the PhD provides specific technical training in a certain subject , it does not provide exhaustive training : in most cases people spend the rest of their careers continuing to train in these areas . Rather the point of a PhD is to give you enough specific training so that you can henceforth direct your own training and learning . Otherwise put , a lot of what you do in a PhD is learning how to learn . But learning how to learn is actually a rather robust and subject-independent skill . If you learn how to learn genetics , then if later on your interests turn to psychology or biophysics you will be in a much different and better position to train yourself in these areas . In some ways , doing a PhD in one of these subjects and then turning around and doing another is like becoming an internet millionaire who wakes up one day and decides that she wants to sell electronics ... so she shuts down her website , gives all her money away , and starts the business out of her parents ' basement . ( Or maybe it is like what happens in some of my dreams : I am doing high school all over again , and somehow it is not going as well as it did the first time around . ) Why are you starting over from scratch ?!? It is true that " academic transfer " makes better sense between some fields than others . If Martha Masters got a PhD in art history and then decided that she wanted to do applied mathematics instead then she would not have been able to " segue " from one field to the other : she would indeed have had to go back to school . But that makes her story a bit sad : getting a PhD is very difficult and very time consuming , but it is not really a feat of strength , and getting two PhDs in two unrelated areas does not show how much of a super genius you are ; it shows that you really changed your mind considerably about what you wanted to do with your life and maybe wasted a lot of your time . No matter how smart you are , I do n't see how you can get a PhD in art history and then one in applied mathematics without spending at least eight years . You ca n't just skip to the end and pass the thesis defense by virtue of your preternatural brilliance : there is coursework , residence requirements , and various other mandatory things which necessarily take time . Her character is comic-booky : it is not really plausible that she could have these two degrees and have gone on to be a medical student while still being in her 20 's , no matter how brilliant . [ Well , " no matter how brilliant " is a little too strong : if she had graduated college at age 16 , then the math works out okay ... ] Moreover , for someone who is that brilliant it would really be sad that she ca n't seem to figure out anything else to do besides infinite s
No , this is not a sign that you need a PhD . A PhD is to prove to other people that you can do novel research to a significant depth , with significant rigour . What you want is to learn some mathematical techniques . Now , the only way to do that , is to practice using those techniques . You need some exercises that will take you from where you are now , to where you want to be . You need to do those exercises , and find out which ones you got wrong , and why you got them wrong ; and then do them correctly . A PhD is n't an efficient or cost-effective way to do that . But a taught Masters degree ( e.g. in Quant finance ) might be . A free online course might be . A study-buddy who understands this stuff might be . A private tutor might be . Finding out which textbooks an appropriate Masters course uses , and working your own way through them , doing the exercises in each chapter , might be . The exact recipe will be whatever works for you . But what you need is to build up your toolkit of maths knowledge and skills , and you can only learn that by using those tools .
Is re-rewriting the core function of a world class - well known open source project ( where performance is a crucial ) and optimizing it to be 2-3 times faster , considered research ? It might be , but only under certain restrictions : You need to be sure no-one has written about the improvement before . And I am not talking about the particular piece of code in the particular project you are looking at here , but about the conceptual idea of how to improve the code . If you want to present your work as a scientific contribution , it needs to be conceptually novel in a way that no-one has described the methods you use in an abstract way before . You need to present your improvement on an abstract , generalized level . Modifying a particular project is nice , but it is not research . Showing a novel method how to modify any number of projects that feature a particular problem can be . Your change should not be entirely obvious . While research contributions do not necessarily need to be totally unexpected or groundbreakingly obscure ideas , if many developers could make the same modifications to the project simply by applying their professional knowledge , your contribution is probably not considered valuable enough , even if no-one else has described the actual procedure before . To answer concretely to your points : The idea is to parallelize it as much as possible , This might be interesting for a paper if it involves any methods for parallelization that were previously unknown , and that can be applied to other applications , as well . modify ( a bit ) well known data structures to be faster for the specific case , A " specific case " is usually not interesting for research results ; it only becomes interesting if you can show the " specific case " is generalizeable in some way . use a more suited language If you design a new language that is specifically suited for the type of applications in question , that could be publishable as research , at least if that language has conceptual advantages over existing domain-specific or general purpose languages for any class of applications . The mere translation into an existing language is most probably not publishable as research . and ( a bit ) more suited algorithms than the open source project used . If those algorithms are already known , it is probably somewhat obvious that they could be used on that particular proejct . As such , this is not a research contribution . I am applying what others made . Yes , fine . I do n't create an entirely new algorithm or data structure . Well , do you create anything conceptually new at all ? But on the other hand , I guess there are 1,000 s of papers published out there and many of them add little value , while my work will help improve the open source project . " little value " is relative . In research publications , value does not mean a solution can readily be used . Rather than that , value is usually seen as the product of the degree by which a problem is solved/situation is improved if the presented knowledge is applied the amount of cases in which that problem occurred/to which the solution is applicable Due to the second item , whether or not you already apply your method to one particular project is hardly relevant . As soon as it is known how to solve the issue , the research is done . Implementing the solution in a project may be helpful to the users of the project , but it does not advance the knowledge of humanity and as such , does not warrant a research publication in and of itself . To summarize : A research publication is not about what has been done , but about what has been learned .
In my university back in Mexico , they had something similar , if professors want to get ahead ( income , professional , etc ) they had to an additional degree ( Masters , PhD ) I think that if you do not have the motivation , you 'll have a lot of problems , doing a PhD is already a taxing endeavor , in the sense that many times you 'll start wondering wether this was a good idea or not . As in many things in life , if you do this because you are made to ( like students that go to college because their parents want to ) you 'll have lots of resentment . However , not all is lost , you can try looking for something you are really passionate about , and then try to do a PhD on that .
I am going to disagree with Peter Jansson here . If you mean you stepped in to cover a couple of classes here and there when the regular instructor was sick or out of town , I would say this by itself does n't constitute a meaningful amount of teaching experience for professional purposes , and should n't be listed on a CV . It may have been valuable to you , but I think it would look kind of silly on a CV . If you were assigned as a teaching assistant for the course , you probably have a line where you describe your responsibilities in that role ( grading exams , holding office hours , etc ) , and you could add " occasional lectures " to that line . If you filled in for an instructor for a longer period of time , then you could consider listing it ( " taught 3 weeks of Calculus 4 " ) .
It sounds as though you are having a hard time finding motivation for pursuing your PhD . You do n't mention the focus of your research , but one idea would be to modify the focus so that it aligns better with your addicting hobby of web-development ( I 'm not familiar with CS , so I have no idea how this would work in actual practice . Others will better be able to advise you on that . ) Become interested in your research . Assuming that you have compelling reasons for staying in your current area of research , you will need to have a genuine passion for the subject , or completing the PhD will become well-nigh impossible due to lack of motivation . See <URL> by Scott Young on how to learn boring subjects ; his advice also holds for renewing interest in something . See the key points below . Do n't pick degree programs you hate . Although there are times when you may have to take courses you do n't actually like , avoid a career made up of tasks and information you hate . Do n't confuse boring and difficult . It is easy to avoid something as boring , rather than admitting that it is difficult . Find the ' real-world ' connections . Math is n't boring when you begin to see the connections and overall patterns -- ditto for many other subjects/areas . Discover the context . Take the time to explore the background , and understand why these [ proofs , theorems , whatever ] are important for where we are now . Young recommends reading Wikipedia articles on lunch-breaks for this purpose . Make stories and pictures . Learning is a creative activity -- the product is the intangible connections and stories in our minds . Mnemonics and stories can be interesting even when the subject is not . ( Use this for the necessary but boring parts of research . ) Use the knowledge . Using even part of what you learn in a separate project will help cement the learning , and will also be interesting . ( And anyway , is n't this part of the purpose of a PhD , to apply knowledge in new ways ? ) Realize that not everything will be fun -- more interest is better , even if relative differences still exist .
I see no reason at all to leave any reasonable skill or ability off of your CV . Play a musical instrument ? Won some medals in a sporting event ? Program an android app ? Have a black belt in a martial art ? Add a section called " Other skills " or " Personal Information " and briefly list these skills . There are two reasons for this . First , it can help a potential employer think of you as a real person , perhaps someone they would like to know . Second , many skills can take years of dedicated practice to master ; if you can master one such skill , then there is a good chance you can master whatever new skills may be required in the new job . Here is an example from my life . Many years ago I programmed a video game ( one of the old " text adventure " style games . I placed this on my CV , not thinking much about it . It turned out that one of the elder faculty conducting the interview had played that game and remembered it fondly . This alone certainly did not " get me the job , " but anything that can smooth the way can be helpful .
The degree you 're looking for ( at least in the sciences ) is called " Doctor of Science " and you can read all about it on Wikipedia : <URL> Edit : As aeismail noted : Sometimes this degree is considered equivalent to a PhD and sometimes it 's considered beyond a PhD . This distinction typically varies by country ( all this is listed on the Wikipedia page ) .
I would say publications dont matter to start with a PhD , in general . Having them might help in reducing length of your PhD . A good thing to have is liking for one area in CS , and good knowledge in that area atleast . e.g. systems or security or algorithms or formal verification or databases or distributed systems etc. . Later when you join for the PhD program , you will do courses and talk with people to get an understanding on what is a good research problem etc. .
It is what it is . Some schools give you less opportunity for teaching than others ( e.g. , schools in the UK ) . If you are looking for a research postdoc , then having a lot of teaching experience is not too important . For instance , at my institution , we want to make sure you 're competent and not going to cause problems , but you do n't need to have won five teaching awards . This is evidenced primarily by your teaching letter . If you think you can get a decent teaching letter now , then I would n't worry about it . ( Note : if you 're TAing now and probably wo n't be again before you apply , consider having someone who will write you a letter observe your class . ) If you 're looking for a " teaching postdoc , " e.g. a temporary position at a liberal arts school , they typically want more evidence that you 're a good teacher , so you might try to actively look for more teaching opportunities . Note : presumably many other students at your institution have the same issue . Try finding out how much TAing recent graduates did and what kind of jobs they got after graduating .
One of the most important factors is in which country you plan to work after getting your diploma . E.g. , if you plan to work in France , some French diplomas are just as valuable as " top " US schools .
I do n't know about combinatorics in particular , but I did get a PhD from one of Carnegie Mellon 's other interdisciplinary programs ( Pure and Applied Logic ) ; I was offered the choice of whether my PhD would officially be in the program name or in " Mathematical Sciences " , and was advised to choose the latter . If you 're PhD is in something other than " Mathematics " or an obvious synonym , and you want to get hired as mathematics faculty , there are two concerns that might come up : Do you know enough math , broadly speaking , to be a good colleague ( for instance , be out outside member on thesis committees , to talk to people , and so on ) ? Can you teach introductory courses ? I do know of people with degrees called " Logic " where these concerns were raised about hiring them . In the cases I know , someone was around to address those concerns , but it might be a disadvantage in departments where no one in the faculty was familiar enough with the program to address them . ( On the other hand , places where no one is familiar with your program are n't as likely to hire you anyway . ) With a degree in something as clearly mathematical as combinatorics , I think the first concern is unlikely to be an issue . The latter might be , especially if those programs do n't necessarily include any TA-ing/teaching of intro calculus courses , but this is also a concern that can be preempted ( for instance , by making sure to pursue enough teaching experience as a grad student ) .
end question
start question
How important are physics and other non-math courses for admission into a math PhD ?
Math grad programs do not look at physics courses on the transcript , or think in those terms . The point is that higher-level ( not formulaic ) physics courses can be beneficial to math people by providing other inputs for intuition . A common obstacle is that the higher-level physics courses do speak in terms of the lower-level ones , which are often quite alien to/from any sensible mathematical world-view . But if one skips over those " immediate " things , one can find that there are " physcial imperatives " mandating mathematical " facts " ... which might not be obvious on " purely mathematical " grounds . The grandest example is " Green 's functions " ... about which volumes can be written ... An immediate point is that the idea is wonderful , is necessary , even if one can not justify it . Green got the idea pre-1850 , and it was completely understood in " rigorous " terms by L. Schwartz in 1950 . Not easy , ... That is , understanding other ( very serious ) inputs to mathematics is obviously helpful .
The way to get into any PhD program is to apply to it . If you are interested in staying at your current institution , you can seek out faculty in Exercise Physiology ( assuming there are any ; I must admit that I know nothing about this particular program , including how common it is ) and ask them whether your coursework so far would make you a reasonable candidate for the program , and if not , how much more you need to do . One obvious question : are you interested in using your mathematical training in a significant way in your future career in Exercise Physiology ? If so , then continuing on to get the MS is math could be an advantage : I imagine that relatively few Exercise Physiology PhD students have that much mathematical training , but like in most academic fields there is always room for people who do have that training and want to use it . If you are having a real change of heart , I have to ask : why begin a master 's program in math if you have decided you do n't want to use mathematics later in life ? Why are n't you trying to take courses in Exercise Physiology ? Also , I am a mathematician , so I can say that getting an MS in math is not a triviality : it most typically takes two years , and if your heart 's not really in it , it could drag for longer than that and really not be fun .
Let me explain my comment as an answer . The admission process works in two different ways : Formal enrolment and informal enrolment Formal You apply through university web link and select the research areas or supervisor . Then probably you communicate with the chosen supervisor through email ( s ) . If things go well then you might get an interview call or direct admit . Informal You approach the supervisor first . Discussions or interviews may go on . If everything is alright , you supervisor would speak with the admission committee for your official admit . In both these types of cases your supervisor recommends for the admission . However , it is the decision of the admission committee to make the final call . Note : I have skipped the recommendation letters related points which is a major part in both these types of enrolment . Moreover , each University has their own set of rules . It is wise to go through the same .
My understanding is that an en-route masters is simply a masters awarded with an understanding that the person will also continue onto a PhD . I do n't think this assumption/understanding makes it any less of a masters . In other words , the masters is not conditional on work done in the PhD . My impression is also that the person would have needed to do several significant things to get the en-route masters , and the magnitude of those things is likely similar to the person who got a terminal masters . So , no , I do n't think en-route is viewed differently in general . Note that I am Canadian .
It never hurts to specifically check with your undergraduate advisor and the desired graduate school 's admission office just to make sure . My understanding is that as long as your current university acknowledges your completion of the undergraduate program ( regardless of whether you physically have the Bachelor degree certificate or not ) prior to you officially beginning your graduate program , then there should be no problem . But like I said , you should check in with your undergrad advisor so that they can inform you of any lingering policies or concerns .
I think you are probably right : it seems unlikely that mathematical statements and proofs included in the supplementary materials to a psychology paper would receive much scrutiny . Even if the editor took the time out to get an extra , mathematically sophisticated referee , the fact that you received no comments about this part of the paper ( right ? ) indicates that even if " read " it was not regarded as an important factor in the evaluation of the paper . What is the upshot of this ? In a nutshell : for better and/or for worse , probably this mathematical work of yours will receive little or no attention . I do n't know any mathematicians who regularly read psychology literature . Since you have just been admitted to a PhD program in mathematics , the time for people to scrutinize your undergraduate research has already mostly passed . By the time you graduate , you should/will have much more relevant material for people to focus on . It is debatable whether you should even list this paper on your CV at the end of your graduate career : I would say you probably should , but in a separate category from all of your math papers . If I were looking to hire you for a post-PhD academic position , I honestly would not even consider reading a psychology paper you wrote as an undergraduate . I would not expect such a paper to have any substantial mathematical contributions , I would expect to be entirely unable to evaluate the significance of the paper as a work of psychology , and -- more honestly -- knowing that you put some theorems and proofs in it as an unassisted undergraduate student , I would expect this material to be a bit callow/superficial . Most undergraduates have not begun to independently engage in research-level mathematics in any way , so it is hard to hold against them whatever they put in papers . Viewing this as a teachable moment , here are some possible takeaways : 1 ) I agree with Kimball and Nate Eldredge : you should do what you need to do to gather confidence in your work before you publish it . By professional mathematical standards , yes , it is a mistake to publish a piece of mathematics without soliciting the opinion of at least one mathematically qualified person . If you happen to be in a similar situation in the future , you should show your work to teachers and mentors in the mathematics department . You may have to wait what seems like a long time to get a fairly quick reading / reaction from them , but even an instantaneous reaction is valuable . 2 ) On the other hand , just because you 're worried does n't mean you actually did anything wrong , and it certainly does n't mean that you did anything terribly wrong . A large percentage of papers contain minor errors . E.g. just yesterday I got an email from a collaborator informing me of a typo in a published paper ( on the same subject as our collaboration , but he was not a coauthor ) . There was a missing " +1 " from several formulas . This really does n't distress me at all : I will make the change on the copy of the paper on my own webpage , and that 's that . And by the way , I have made worse mistakes than this in published work ( and in my PhD thesis ) : ones that do bother me a bit , but much more me than anyone else . In the realm of honest mistakes , I ca n't think of what you could have done in an undergraduate paper in a different field that would be so bad so as to place any clouds in the sky of your academic career . 3 ) Let me not completely neglect the possibility that you did something right : maybe your paper has a real mathematical contribution . If that is the case , you should not drop the matter but try to continue , improve and refine the work , with the goal of publishing it elsewhere . Again , mathematics hidden in a psychology paper is very well hidden indeed . Maybe that 's not what you or the mathematical community wants .
I think what you know and how strong your recommendation letters are the most important factors during the application process . Usually people need to take several foundamental courses to have a solid background before conducting research in math . And you also need to have some undergraduate research experience . So a degree in math is the most efficient way to get this . But it can also be achieved even though you do n't have a degree in math . My undergraduate degree is business administration but I have taken around 20 math courses including 10 analysis courses and several algebra and geometry courses during my undergraduate study . Currently I am going to start a research master program in pde and applied analysis and I hope I can do research in math in the future . So yes , you can . But you need to make extra effort to fill up the gaps .
There are students with math major ( and other major ) go to physics graduate school , but I think all of them have taken physics courses . The first question you should ask yourself is that why you are interested in theoretical physics . If you were the admission committee and see an applicant said that they are interested in physics but taken no physics courses , what do you think ? You must explain it in somewhere in your personal statement . The first thing you should do is to take physics courses and get good grade on all of them . Also , you should try taking few graduate courses . There are no need to take courses on all topics , you should only have strong interest in few topics such as QM , EM , SM , QFT and string theory . Some of them are very mathematical ( that good for you ) . Doing so can demonstrate your interest in physics . Second , you might try to apply for master program in physics . It is easier to get in and after 1 or 2 years you can apply for PhD in physics to continue your study . One more options is to apply for math department , in particular , you should look for applied math . There are usually few professors studying mathematical physics . It is particular true for some countries that the theoretical physicists stay in the math department and experimental physicists stay in physics department . Assuming you have good background in mathematics , it should be the easiest option for you to get in those school and start studying theoretical physics .
This is an excellent question , for faculty as well as students ! How important are these points in evaluating the teaching capabilities of a student ? Obviously this varies significantly in different departments and institutions , but in my experience , the scores themselves are not that important . My department does pay attention to these numbers when allocating future TAships , but definitely not in isolation . Narrative reviews from the instructors carry significant weight . The people doing the assignments also know which courses are unpopular , and which instructors are irresponsible , and adjust the evaluation accordingly , at least in principle . In practice , there are only three evaluations : ( 1 ) truly outstanding TAs , who are considered for teaching awards ; ( 2 ) truly abysmal TAs , who are not rehired , at least without retraining ( and since we have a TAship requirement , this has teeth ) ; and ( 3 ) everyone else . When we evaluate tenure-track faculty candidates , teaching ability is usually a second-order concern , but it is a concern . Poor evaluations on an applicant 's CV are a red flag -- why did n't they just omit them ? Good evaluations are mostly a signal to look further . Teaching awards carry more weight . Recommendation letters that directly praise the applicant 's teaching ability -- with concrete and credible details -- are even better . Similar issues arise when evaluating faculty for tenure , with one big difference : omitting the teaching scores is not an option . How does one ensure that the students are sincere in their evaluation ? You ca n't . Sorry . However , I believe you can increase the fraction of sincere ( and positive ) responses by consistently treating your students with respect . Make your expectations clear from day one , and enforce them consistently . Invite feedback throughout the semester , and respond to it quickly and appropriately . Apologize quickly for mistakes , thank students publicly for useful suggestions , but do not buckle on high standards . Give timely , consistent , and useful feedback on coursework . Above all , do not waste your students ' time ; the correlation between hard work and low evaluations is much higher if the students do n't see any benefit to doing the work . < Insert standard confirmation bias warning here . > How does the TA make the best of a bad job [ if the instructor is irresponsible ] ? First , do your own job as best as you can . Second , raise your concerns with the instructor ; be respectful but brutally honest . If the instructor is unresponsive , raise your concerns with your instructor 's boss ; be respectful but brutally honest . ( Note : Disagreement is not the same as being unresponsive . ) If your instructor 's boss is also unresponsive , your department does n't really care about poor teaching ; they 're likely to ignore your evaluations , even if they are low . Apart from holding weekly office hours and lenient grading ( ! ) , what is the maximum a TA can do , after all ? There are many more things that TAs can do . At a minimum , hold office hours that the students actually find useful ; do n't just show up . Distribute practice problems , and offer feedback on the students ' solutions . Hold weekly review/discussion/problem-solving sessions . As aeismail suggests , write review notes . If the instructor covered too much , distill down their main points ; if the instructor did n't cover enough , expand on the key ideas they missed . Offer to give a few guest lectures , and then give fantastic guest lectures . More self-servingly : Make sure the students see you working to overcome your instructor 's shortcomings . If the students do n't see you fighting on their behalf ( even if you are ) , they 'll write you off as yet another useless academic , like your instructor . But if you can make them believe you 're on their side , they 'll reward you . I think this is why students often reward " lenient grading " ; if the students think the coursework is a waste of time , they 'll see lenient graders as their allies . Obviously this all takes time . As aeismail says , TAs usually have many other responsibilities , especially to their own classes , projects , research , families , and sanity . It is frighteningly easy for committed and caring TAs to find themselves being abused by less committed instructors ( or even departments ) . Set limits .
It sounds like , on the whole , you 're in a pretty good place regarding your credentials . Have you checked out the Grad Cafe ? The forums there are a fantastic resources for people in the process of applying .
No . It 's called self-plagiarism . You can of course cite results from your Master 's thesis , and even quote it , but only if you clearly indicate the source . That it was n't published does n't make a difference .
From my perspective admitting students to CS PhD programs : TAing for CS classes will be a small positive signal that you did well in those classes and were well thought of by the instructor ( who presumably asked you to be his TA , or at least accepted your application ) . It might also let you get to know the professor teaching the class better , which will be helpful for your application if he/she can write you a letter of recommendation . But beyond that , it wo n't be a huge bonus in and of itself -- its mostly a signal correlated with other good things .
I do n't think it should be a problem , provided that you are taking some challenging Math/CS classes among your 4 classes . If it looks like you 're trying to skirt by with the bare minimum difficulty of classes , then taking a couple fewer classes could reinforce that negative narrative . But as long as it looks like you 're taking a challenging course load and doing well , I do n't know that people will even notice the 4 vs. 5 issue ( since there are schools where 4 courses is a normal load ) .
Graduate admissions is based on lots of different factors . I do n't think any one thing will make you in-eligible for acceptance , at even the best institutions -- including not being a physics major . That being said , unless you have physics ( or similar ) experience , or are in a related field , it will hurt your application . I know numerous people with math , computer science , engineering and chemistry backgrounds who have joined ( and are doing well in ) prestigious physics programs ( e.g. stanford , chicago , columbia ) . If you have experience in a not-too-distant field ( e.g. chemistry ) , one way to make your application more appealing - would be if you are interested in subjects somewhere between physics and chemistry ( for example ) . If you can demonstrate that you have excelled in your own field , and have an aptitude for physics ( e.g. good GRE scores ) , you should n't have a problem !
From my experience in CS in Canada , most student do not have industry experience before doing their Ph.D. . And I have not seen this as a requirement for entering the Ph.D either . The reason is that a Ph.D. is not an industrial project although it could be related to the industry in some cases . But it does not need to . During a Ph.D. the goal is not to commercialize a project . But it is to advance knowledge in a given field . Some people do a Ph.D. project in collaboration with a company . But from my experience , most people do n't . So to answer your question : it is not important to have industry experience . But it can help . Perhaps that you will know how to better manage your time , etc. and this may be help in carrying your Ph.D project .
Statistics on institutions should be taken with 14,000,000 grains of salt : some institutions have changed name over time ( including many recently , e.g. in France many institutions were forking twenty years ago and are now merging back ) , and affiliation rules vary widely between authors ( you 'll see below huge contributions from state-wide agencies like " Russian academy of science " or " CNRS " , they are not the same as universities or labs ) . But , you can do it with many bibliographic search tools . Here 's how to do with Web of Science : Make a regular search ( here I chose " title " , but you can do something more complicated ) On the results page , click on the " Analyze Results " link Choose your field of interest ( here , organizations ) Enjoy !
I ca n't speak for purest math , but many parts of computer science overlap so I think there may be some similarity ... If you know that you want a Ph.D. and are able to get into a good Ph.D. program straight out of undergraduate , more power to you : this is a fine path to go on . This may not , however , be possible or desirable for a number of reasons . Some examples of good reasons to get a Master 's at one institution before switching to another : You might not get into grad school on the first try , and a Master 's program is a good place to progress academically while you prepare to try again ( this was one of my reasons ) The Master 's is a natural break-point for transferring to a program that is stronger or a better fit . Non-academic reasons , such as family issues , following a partner , visa problems , etc. .
You can try searching for " Lie admissible algebra " on <URL> and the <URL> . There are a few papers each year that mention this topic , but it does n't seem to be a major research area in its own right . If you are thinking about topics for graduate school , this seems to me to be way too specific to narrow down to before choosing an advisor . ( I assume you are n't already working in this research area yourself : if you did , you 'd have more information about who else is . ) As for math departments in the U.S. , two of the authors of references in the article you linked to ( Benkart and Osborn ) are emeritus professors at Wisconsin , and Myung used to be at Northern Iowa but has since died . You could try looking up the authors of papers on the topic that excite you , but this wo n't give you a wide range of schools in the U.S. , especially now that Benkart and Osborn have retired . Instead , I agree with Chris C that you 'd be better off considering a broader area .
This depends entirely on the type of physics you would like to pursue . If you would like to be a theorist , especially in general relativity or quantum field theory , you should learn lots of math , and you will find advanced classes in abstract algebra , topology , and differential geometry quite helpful . However , you say that you are interested in condensed matter . Certainly you will need lots of math , but it is mostly applied math , and you will be taught what you need to know in your graduate physics program . The admissions committee will look favorably upon any double major , but your statement of purpose in you application should speak to how your elective major has influenced how you think about physics , and helped you choose an area of specialty . You should also describe any cross disciplinary research you have done , as this will show that you know how to integrate ideas across fields and bring a new perspective to the department . You can do this with either math or chemistry as a double major , but it seems that chemistry is more closely related to your interests as a physicist , and a solid knowledge there will be beneficial in both graduate school and your career .
This sort of thing only evolves as the product of your exhaustive reading , and discussions with your supervisors and peers . After that , at some point , your supervisor will say something like : " before you can really get into your research , just resolve this little thing - it should be fairly trivial . " That 's your thesis , right there .
end question
start question
Should I comment on a cited paper in the paper-review part of my master 's thesis ?
I 'm not entirely sure about what kind of publications you are talking about when you say ' published by vendors ' ( white papers , brochures , user manuals ? ) . But if you are referring to scientific literature , my answer is : by all means . I do n't se why you would refrain yourself from commenting the possible limitations or drawbacks of published methods . Just stay modest and consider the possibility that these publications came out a while ago and that the general knowledge in the field improved since then . Being critical , if done properly ( give objective reasons ) , is certainly something to be encouraged at the Master 's level , and yes the appropriate section for this is the " State of the art " section .
In this case I would opt to cite <URL> . Citing OpenCV as a whole is more appropriate than referring to a specific function , e.g. " we obtained our results using OpenCV [ Bradski00 ] " . Since you use OpenCV , you should also cite the related paper . I would only refer to a specific function in a software package if it does not implement a known algorithm and therefore requires special attention .
You must cite them ! Failure to cite photographs and figures is just as much plagiarism as stealing quotations . To some extent , it is tougher to use pictures from other sources , because you need to make sure you have the permissions to use them . You should add the citation in the caption , as well as the requisite acknowledgments required by the author or publisher .
Posting a master 's thesis on the arXiv is uncommon , but not unheard of . My feeling is that there 's little point to it : if there 's material worth publishing in your thesis , then you should turn it into papers and post them on the arXiv ( in which case the thesis is unnecessary ) , and if it 's not worth publishing then it 's not worth posting to the arXiv . If you decide to post both the thesis and the papers to the arXiv , you should indicate the relationship between them clearly in the comments so you do n't look like you are inflating your publication record with duplicates , as well as in case you trigger the automated plagiarism detection in the arXiv . One potential issue is coauthors . If anything in your thesis is coauthored with someone else ( either from a previous paper or to appear in a future paper ) , then I do not think you should post the thesis to the arXiv . The problem is that you 'd be pointing readers towards a version that lists you as the only author and relegates your coauthors to a brief note in the text , and you would be increasing the chances that they would cite the thesis rather than the coauthored papers . Instead , it 's best to emphasize the papers by posting them to the arXiv instead .
Should I also use a name for my system ? What are the advantage or disadvantage of it ? In the following , I will assume the author name " Mary Miller " and the system name " MSOAP " ( " Miller 's solution of all problems " ) , as well as the additional author name " Oswald Otherman " for the sake of explanation . Advantages : It will be easier for other authors to refer to your work . Rather than a convoluted expression such as " the system proposed by Miller " , they can simply write " MSOAP " . Work by other authors that directly extends the original system can continue using the same name . Rather than " Otherman 's extension of the system proposed by Miller " , it is " Otherman 's MSOAP variant " , or ( if the overall system structure remains the same ) even still " MSOAP " ( just with the reference to Otherman 's work rather than Miller 's , if it 's the aspects introduced by Otherman that are actually talked about ) . If the system was not created by one sole author ( even if the scientific contribution focused in the first paper that mentions the system is by Miller ) , it is even much fairer to refer to the system with a name rather than linking it to a single author . The system name is more specific for a certain work than the author 's name . Even if the system might be expanded in several iterations , it is still probably centered around one core topic or approach . Hence , searching for " MSOAP " will always yield results related to the desired topic . At the same time , Mary Miller might create several different systems throughout her career that focus on wildly different things , so the same can not be said about searching for " Mary Miller " . Disadvantages : The name of the system 's creator is not quite as apparent any more , as it does not directly pop up in each sentence referring to the system . However , the author name is by no means concealed ; the system name " MSOAP " still provides a very good starting point for finding more information about the project ( including attribution ) , and the reference to thus-related papers in the bibliography contains the author information , as well . Therefore , whoever wants to know who contributed to MSOAP will face no real obstacles finding out . Neutral : Finding unique system names is increasingly difficult . " MSOAP " might refer to a number of unrelated projects . On the other hand , the same can be said about an author 's name , as " Miller " is not in any way less ambiguous . Another issue with a self-chosen system name , as suggested by <URL> , could be that you pick a name that you do not like any more at a later point in time . On the other hand , you might also dislike your personal name . If you do not pick a name for your system , there is even a slight chance that people citing your work end up associating it with a name that you do not like . Your mileage may vary on which one of these is least desirable or most likely . Therefore , my conclusion is : By all means , do whoever wants to refer to your work a favour and provide a name for your system . Are there any conventions or guidelines for it or for the names ? No , and there are various factors that influence why there is no general answer to this question : First of all , this is very field-specific . Some communities might enjoy reading fancy names that contain some kind of slight jokes or at least convey something in a witty acronym ( like <URL> : Schrr , A. : PROGRES , A Visual Language and Environment for PROgramming with Graph REwriting Systems . Technical Report , RWTH Aachen , Germany , 1994 . ) , whereas others might have a strong preference towards more descriptive names . For systems developed as a part of a larger project , it can be a nice touch to pick a uniform naming scheme . ( As a fictional example , there could be " MSOAP " , " MSOAP-W " for weather-related solutions , " MSOAP-L " for literature-related solutions , and so on . ) Maybe you even want to develop a certain recognizeable style as an author and therefore try to establish a uniform method of naming your systems over the years . As a clarification , system names need by no means always be acronyms . A system name such as " Ultimate Solution " is totally fine . Just provide something that can be used as a ( composite ) noun .
There are several algorithms for scheduled repetition of information on flash cards . It 's possible that the software you liked uses one of these . This Wikipedia article on <URL> discusses Pimsleur 's graduated-interval recall and Leitner system , among others . This is n't the easiest topic to search for , but the Wikipedia article calls it " spaced repetition " , and includes a list of alternative names . That should help you do further research .
Send an email to the conference program chair right away and ask . The better conferences will be honest with you , either way . The answer could be no revision , but then you could move on . These mistakes happen .
Yes . It is certainly okay . Indeed , general practice when writing a PhD thesis is to produce a number of publications that add up to the thesis , whether directly ( using staples ) or by a good deal of massage . Some published material may be omitted and some additional material may be included . There 's no reason why this should n't apply to a Master 's thesis , too . It is a good idea to cite the paper in the thesis ( if the paper has been accepted for publication ) and the thesis in the paper , if possible .
Personally , I am in favour of adding them as references in the bibliography section . With that said , I am from a CS subfield that is very close to the " real world " in a way that related work is almost always a motley mixture of peer-reviewed publications , books , newspaper articles , technical standard documents ( such as those by W3C ) , and actual innovative software or websites ( whose concepts were never formally published in a scientific venue ) , i.e. sources with a continuously varying degree of reliability . Consequently , trying to find a well-defined rule about what to add as a footnote and what to add as a bibliography reference is certain to give you headaches ( and uncertain to lead to a useful and consistent result ) . However , I can see a few ( maybe a bit subjective ) general advantages of using bibliography items rather than footnotes for links ( in no particular order ) : Bibliography items tend to more or less have a fixed format . Frequently , meta-information such as year of publication or author can be provided for web resources just as it can for anything else . When using a footnote , authors may be tempted to just provide the link and skip the meta-information that would be naturally included in a bibliography item , thereby foregoing both any due attribution and any information required to possibly locate the resource again , should the link die . I have seen styleguides that generally forbid the use of footnotes ( e.g. <URL> ) , but I have yet to see a styleguide that generally forbids the use of a bibliography . By not using any footnotes , your manuscript is one step closer to being agnostic of the final formatting used ( and thus matches with the ideal of separating content from layout ) . If the same web resource is mentioned twice throughout your document , there is absolutely no problem if the link is provided in a bibliography item , which is simply referenced twice in your text , if appropriate ( e.g. if the two mentions are sufficiently far apart ) . If the link is in a footnote , on the other hand , things are not so clear : The footnote can be added several times in the document . However , this means a waste of space , and it may also confuse readers who expect some new information when reading a new footnote for the first time , or who might wonder whether they are looking at a copy-and-paste error where a previously unmentioned link should be provided . Personally , I consider this " solution " downright bad style . The same footnote can be pointed to several times . While this may be slightly cumbersome in some typesetting software , it is definitely feasible . However , it significantly increases the effort for finding the footnote ( it might be on any page in the document ) , and the need to switch to another page than the one the reader is currently on kind of defeats the purpose of footnotes , anyway . As a reader , I find keeping track of references , figure numbers , and table numbers that I still want to look into after finishing or while reading the current paragraph or section hard enough . There is no reason to add yet another independent list for footnote numbers . Also as a reader , I have a certain expectation what amount of information I will find when following a pointer to additional information . For bibliography references , it is clear that the pointer points to an entire external document . For footnotes , I conversely prefer it to be clear that the pointer points to no more than one or two sentences worth of additional information ( for which I do not need to search for and/or open another document ) .
As a prior commenter noted , you can be silent on the issue without prejudice from the admissions officer . In fact , it 's quite common for graduate students not to make the thesis/no thesis decision until they have a semester or a couple of quarters behind them . The decision to write a thesis is often the product of one 's evolution during graduate work . For example , if you were to decide that you want to pursue a doctorate , then writing a thesis has distinct advantages , the most important of which is that it prepares you for writing a dissertation . Conversely , if you want the broadest knowledge and lab experience , course work is preferable .
You seem ( at least in your question ) to have skipped over a middle option : as a PHD student in computer science at an American university , it is likely that with no additional paperwork you can enroll in graduate courses in the statistics department . ( As with all things academic , it would be good to run this past your supervisor , but as long as you can explain ( i ) why you think it will be useful to you and ( ii ) why it will not significantly impede the progress on whatever else you are supposed to be doing , s/he ought to be supportive of it . If the statistics coursework is directly relevant to your thesis research , s/he ought to be enthusiastic , even . ) You can then take exactly the courses to develop the knowledge and skills you need . I do n't know your situation , but it seems very unlikely that what you want to learn will coincide precisely with the set of requirements for a master 's degree in statistics . And in terms of your credentials : unless you are looking for a post-PhD position specifically in statistics , given that you already have one master 's degree and are going for a PhD , I do n't see a second master 's degree in statistics as having much value to you . ( Even then , unless your career goal is to be some kind of adjunct lecturer in a statistics department , a second master 's degree is not guaranteed to be directly helpful : if you have specific career goals then you should ask around as to what credentials best help you achieve these goals . ) As to the value of the coursework itself versus the time for your CS research : Suresh 's comment is the best answer that I can think of to that . You 're right ; there are pros and cons to be weighed against each other . We ca n't do that for you nearly as well as you can do it for yourself . Your supervisor is the natural person to go to for some additional insight , but in my opinion the final decision is really yours .
I do n't see why your supervisor would be concerned about it , especially if it is relevant for your current research . But , to be sure , let them know about your previous work and emphasise how it is relevant ( and its importance ) to your current work . When you use your paper , make sure that you cite it as you would any paper .
In APA style , you can write , ( e.g. , <URL> ) Featherstone et al 1900 ( as cited in Thomas and Cullen 2002 ) Of course , in general you should try your best to read the original and cite the original directly .
If your work is good enough , it deserves to be published . It does n't matter if it is the result of a hobby , undergraduate studies , or your main job as a researcher . Summarizing it to make it fit into the space allotted in a journal or conference proceedings will be a daunting task , ask your advisor for guidance and help .
No , cite it as you would any other paper . You do not mention the paper status ( " invited paper " , in your case ; " review paper " , " perspective " , " editorial " , etc. ) in the citation , unless that is formally part of the title ( which it typically is not ) , or unless the citation style explicitly calls for it ( IEEE does not , and I know no citation style that does ) . In IEEE 's templates and LaTeX classes , the only place which mentions invited papers is a command to indicate when your paper is an invited paper ( here for <URL> ) : Special paper notices , such as for invited papers , can be declared with :
There is nothing special about the initial date of submission . As such , it is entirely acceptable to add new citations , including for recently published papers , at any stage except for some journals ' final proofing ( where they really just want to confirm their formatting and copy-editing ) . Moreover , in many cases it is not just acceptable but required , especially given that review may be a very lengthy process . For example , I am in the middle of a revision right now of a paper that had an unusually long initial review for my field -- from first submission to submission of the revision will be nearly 18 months . In the revision , we will most certainly be citing new work , including some of our own other recently published work , as a necessary part of addressing the comments of the reviewers . So , in short : yes , cite whatever is useful to cite , regardless of its publication date .
Yes , it can be mentioned . I would put a category on your CV titled " service to the profession . " In that section , mention the year and the name of the journal that asked you to referee . It 's not a major point , but it shows that you 're willing to be a team player and help out the journal . That speaks both to your professionalism and to the fact that the editor trusted your judgment .
The practice I 'm most familiar with is that a coauthor is a coauthor is a coauthor . Anyone listed as a coauthor on the title page of the paper should be listed on the title slide of any talk about the paper , and explicitly acknowledged ( " This is joint work with ... " ) when the talk begins . Whether any of your coauthors helped you prepare your slides or the proceedings abstract is none of the audience 's business . But this attitude is clearly specific to my field , where papers only rarely have more than three authors . It might not scale so well in fields ( like particle physics ? ) where a " small " group may have 100 members .
First , I think you are worrying too much . Second , I think it is bad form on the part of the authors . If the material on the website is critical for the paper , it needs to be provided in an archival form that the journal can keep track of . I would evaluate it based on what you have been given .
I agree with all of @Nate Eldredge 's comments . If you have a good relationship with your advisor , you should be able to say " This paper lies outside of my field of expertise . I do n't feel qualified to review it ; in fact , even to understand it at a basic level would require me to spend substantial time familiarizing myself with the terminology of a different academic field . " According to your comments , you do not feel comfortable saying this to your advisor . So here is what I would suggest instead : do the reviewing together with your advisor , in person . So for instance you could begin by saying " I started reading the paper you assigned me , and I have some questions I 'd like to discuss with you . When can we meet to talk about it ? " Then when you meet you can begin to engage with all the unfamiliar stuff and see for yourself how far away it really is from your interests and those of your advisor . If it turns out that your advisor does n't understand the paper either , I would try to subtly lead him to the conclusion that neither of you should be reviewing it . If he tries to shove it onto you , reiterate that you are doing it but that you want to get his input . If necessary , ask a question of the form " How would you handle this review job if you were in my place ? " The point being that the advisor is in your place since he is the one who has been asked to do the reviewing . To pull this off properly may require some verbal aikido . The worst case scenario is that after all this your advisor makes clear to you that he does n't care that neither of your have the expertise to review this paper ; he wants you to do it anyway . At that point he is asking you to commit academic dishonesty , and you will be in a tough spot : you will have to decide whether turning in a noncommittal review of a paper that you do n't understand is the least evil .
end question
start question
How much effort does it take to record video courses ?
I 'm in the middle of recording lectures for a class now , and I 'm doing all the work ( recording/processing/uploading ) myself . Luckily , I like doing the technical part of it , because it is rather time intensive . I 've also taught a course that had dedicated software to take care of the entire process ( <URL> ) . I 'd walk into class , log into the system , push " Record " and lo-and-behold the videos ( with everything I had on my computer desktop at the time ) were uploaded to the site a few hours after class ( and were available live to the students who wanted to watch and participate remotely ) . So , the effort varies depending on what situation you are in at your school . If you have no supporting system ( like BB Collaborate ) , plan on at least an hour or so per class of your time ( not to mention render and upload time , which can take many hours depending on the length of your class and your Internet bandwidth ) , and this is once you get everything figured out . Oh , and that does n't include editing bells and whistles ; I basically put raw class footage online and take as little time as I can for post-processing and editing . For a self-built system , you 'll need a number of things : <URL> ( $ 200-300 will get you one ) <URL> ( $ 25 for a 32GB card ) <URL> ( $ 25 ) <URL> ( $ 150 for a decent one ) Video editing software ( I started with <URL> on my Mac ( $ 15 ) and have since graduated to <URL> ( $ 300 ) and <URL> ( $ 50 ) . I assume you already have a computer , but you 'll need that , too ( $ 500-1500 ) . ) <URL> ( Firewire or USB 3 , $ 100 for 1TB ) . This is n't strictly necessary , but you 'll find that you may run out of disk space quickly without one . A YouTube account ( free ) , with a relatively fast internet connection ( I 'm currently faced with a molasses-slow upload speed in Djibouti , Africa , so that has n't been fun ) . Make sure you verify your YouTube account so you can upload videos longer than 15 minutes . Once you get the equipment ( total cost ~ $ 1000 without the computer ) , you 'll need to learn how to use everything . You have to remember to record all your lectures , and plan on spending five minutes or so setting everything up before class , unless you have your own classroom . I simply focus the camcorder on the board and me , with a bit of room on the sides for me to move around . If you want panning and zooming , you 'll have to rely on someone else to do it . Getting up to speed with the editing software can take time , especially if you have n't done it before . You could spend months editing a 1-hour class , but as I say , if you keep it bare-bones you can get the editing down to an hour or so of your time , including setting up all the steps to upload to YouTube . I record all my videos at 1080p , but I upload to YouTube at 480p because of my slow connection ( and my students have the same slow connection ) . I find that the board is difficult to read , even though the camera is only 10 feet away -- I also upload my slideshows and try to write big ! Bottom line : either convince your school to invest in a professional system so you do n't have to do much work yourself , or plan on spending a good bit of time ( and money , if your school wo n't pay for it -- I bought everything out of my own pocket , but as I say , I 'm enjoying it ) to learn the setup and edit/upload videos .
This is an invitation to discuss your plans for obtaining external funding . They want your answers to questions like the following : What agencies fund research like yours ? What projects do you have that you think would be successful in gaining external funding ? Why do you think you would be successful ? Can you point to similar ( but not too similar ) projects that have been funded ? Why would a funding agency agree your work is worthy of support ? Why would they agree that you are a qualified person to carry out the work , and that your project is likely to actually produce useful results ? How would you convince them ? What supporting evidence would you use ? How large would those grants be likely to be ? How do you know ? When do you propose to begin applying for such grants ? Is there anything specific that needs to happen first ? Do you have collaborators in mind with whom you might co-apply ? Have you discussed this with them ?
Written Texts In the context of a written text I usually use the person 's title letters ( Mr. Dr. Etc. ) and state their affiliation if it actually adds something to the point I 'm trying to make . Say for example I wish to point out the collaborations I have set up with other institutions , then I 'd probably be verbose about it . Of course it does n't make sense to explicitly mention collaborators in all written texts . Neither it is customary to do so . For example in a paper the collaborators are listed as authors , and this collaboration relationship is therefore very explicit . In your thesis you should probably concentrate on your work . That does n't necessary mean you should n't explicitly acknowledge collaborators , but that 's the type of scenario in which I 'd err on the verbose side . Oral Presentations In case you are referring to an oral presentation , you could state their title and position the first time you introduce them , and subsequently refer to them by their name whenever you mention them again . Something like : I conducted this work with Joe Rnano who is Distinguished Professor at the University of Academia.SE . Joe and I demonstrated that ... I just came out of a conference and that 's what most speakers did .
It 's not a deal breaker . I had awful grades in many courses but I got offers with TA/RA-ship/fellowships from a couple of top 25 US PhD programs in Math . The reason , I think , was that I had very high GRE scores , I had participated in undergraduate/masters " research " projects for a few years with professors at my schools , and I had pretty good recommendations . My research statement was normal and earnest . I did n't have any extraordinary ideas nor some well defined research agenda in it . I think that , overall , the rest of my portfolio made up for my awful grades . In your case , it 's just one course . That does not signal any systematic problem . If you feel particularly insecure , you can address it in your personal statement but do n't talk about the professor in question negatively , instead you can focus on how you were tardy once but it does not reflect your work usual work ethic . I can not speak for top 10 schools . They may have a sufficiently large pool of applicants who may beat you on every metric . Also , Math departments at large public Universities generally need lots of bodies to TA/grade their numerous remedial and baby-calc type undergraduate courses and generally do the culling at the qualifying exam stage . You may find their standards for an incoming PhD class to be more forgiving .
Christian Clason 's comment is basically correct . The hiring process for W1 is the same as W2 and W3 and reports are collected after the interviews . So the time from interview to notification is not short . However , it do n't need to be six month . What usually happens after the interviews is that the committee solicites reports and the referees get about six to ten weeks for their reports . Then the committee meets again and forms its recommendation . This is the first point at which you may be told your suggested listing , but this is unofficial and at some places even against the rules . The next steps are that a number of committees have to approve the list ( can be something between two and four ) and only after the head of the university has approved the list , the first place may be informed officially . This whole process may well take six months , but it can be less , but do not expect less than six weeks between interviews and unofficial notification and not less then three months between interview and official offer .
I would n't worry about it because that portion is used for statistical purposes like compiling average test scores by major , like in the example here : <URL> The information that schools look at that regard majors are if you take a subject test , like in computer science or physics . And of course all of your undergrad data . Additionally , marking undecided is possible if you really dont want to choose one .
Based on our work with them , it seems to be a high quality publication . We published a JoVE article last year and several of the protocols we use in the lab are adapted from other JoVE articles . So it seems effective in its mission . The video format really works for certain protocols , and it may make it easier for people to reproduce your work ( thereby getting you more citations ) . That said , there is the price tag to consider , and the editorial process is extensive and time consuming ( you write an article , then go through normal peer review , then work with them to turn it into a screenplay , then get everyone together with the videographer they provide , etc. ) . So I would say that if your method does not specifically benefit from the video format , there is n't an advantage over a conventional methods journal . As far as how it 's received , I have n't noticed any differences from any other small journal .
I have two levels of customization . Firstly , if the letter is for an internship at a lab , or an application to grad school or a job , I tailor the qualities that I emphasize and link those qualities to the specific job . A second level of customization is if I have any connection to the institution ( for example , when writing letters of recommendation for AT&amp;T Labs - where I used to work - I might mention this explicitly in order to convey that I understand the local culture ) This is above and beyond the usual pro-forma customizations for the addressee etc. .
In my experience , it is usually the other way around . The first round of reviews typically takes longer , because the reviewers are new to the paper and first reading it and forming their opinions . In the second round , they are more likely to be simply looking at differences and seeing whether they agree with your adjustments and replies to their comments . There is , however , a lot of noise in the process , because in most cases the main amount of time is not spent in reviewing per se , but rather in waiting for the reviewers to make time in their schedules to review . It differs from journal to journal of course , but sounds to me like in your first round of review you got unusually lucky with the reviewers ' schedules and things went very fast , and the second round of review is taking a more " normal " length of time .
A wide range of " Affiliate " and " Visiting " titles are often used to simplify bureaucracy in a long-duration academic interaction . For example , you may have a collaborator who frequently visits , and want to give them access to buildings , networks , and other resources so that their visits are less of a hassle for everybody . A " Research Affiliate " or " Affiliate Professor " or such status allows the institution to officially put the person into the system so that they can be issued keys , ID cards , access permissions , etc. . The mechanism for actually doing this is typically that a sponsoring professor just calls the appropriate department or fills out a form , and it just happens .
How much detail to provide in the introduction depends on the circumstances . The minimum requirement is to give enough context and references that a diligent reader could fill in any missing background , at the cost of some extra work . However , that 's a pretty undemanding requirement ; a few papers fail to do this , but they generally fail by not even trying . It 's often valuable to do more to make life easier for the reader . How much more depends on who you expect will read the paper , and on what you believe they want or need from the introduction . ( Some papers are read only by impatient experts , while others attract a broad audience . ) What 's considered appropriate may vary between fields or even subfields , but here are a few general principles : Targeting an audience for your papers can be a self-fulfilling prophecy . If you aim at a very specialized audience , it becomes much less likely that anyone else will read your papers . Attracting a broader audience is on the whole a good thing , both for scientific progress and for your own career , so it 's best not to limit your audience unnecessarily . If modest changes will make your writing much more accessible , then they are probably a good idea . It 's easy to overestimate how much readers really know . In an ideal world , every researcher would remember all the details of everything they ever studied , but life does n't work that way . Of course you ca n't re-teach things from scratch ( and should n't even try ) , but sometimes a brief reminder can be really helpful . This is particularly true when the details matter : if the reader really needs to know exactly how a certain algorithm works to understand your paper , then restating the algorithm can be worthwhile even if you suspect most readers will already be somewhat familiar with it . Those who already know the details can easily skim just enough to convince themselves that their version is the same as yours , while those who do n't can read more carefully . The introduction plays a crucial role in describing the context and explaining why you did these things and what the consequences are . It may not be the part of the paper that most excites you , but it will almost certainly be the most-read section ( not counting the abstract ) . The purpose of your paper is to communicate your discoveries , and making the introduction more accessible is sometimes the best way to achieve this .
If you are attending universities outside of the US , you normally would n't have much in the way of diversity -- almost all of your courses are directed toward the general area of your major . So it 's not that big a deal not to have too many outside courses . In general , though , I also think that admissions committees do not place as much weight on courses outside the major as courses in the major . If you are a physics major , for instance , a C in a US History course is not going to be as problematic as a C in electricity and magnetism .
I 'm in the middle of recording lectures for a class now , and I 'm doing all the work ( recording/processing/uploading ) myself . Luckily , I like doing the technical part of it , because it is rather time intensive . I 've also taught a course that had dedicated software to take care of the entire process ( <URL> ) . I 'd walk into class , log into the system , push " Record " and lo-and-behold the videos ( with everything I had on my computer desktop at the time ) were uploaded to the site a few hours after class ( and were available live to the students who wanted to watch and participate remotely ) . So , the effort varies depending on what situation you are in at your school . If you have no supporting system ( like BB Collaborate ) , plan on at least an hour or so per class of your time ( not to mention render and upload time , which can take many hours depending on the length of your class and your Internet bandwidth ) , and this is once you get everything figured out . Oh , and that does n't include editing bells and whistles ; I basically put raw class footage online and take as little time as I can for post-processing and editing . For a self-built system , you 'll need a number of things : <URL> ( $ 200-300 will get you one ) <URL> ( $ 25 for a 32GB card ) <URL> ( $ 25 ) <URL> ( $ 150 for a decent one ) Video editing software ( I started with <URL> on my Mac ( $ 15 ) and have since graduated to <URL> ( $ 300 ) and <URL> ( $ 50 ) . I assume you already have a computer , but you 'll need that , too ( $ 500-1500 ) . ) <URL> ( Firewire or USB 3 , $ 100 for 1TB ) . This is n't strictly necessary , but you 'll find that you may run out of disk space quickly without one . A YouTube account ( free ) , with a relatively fast internet connection ( I 'm currently faced with a molasses-slow upload speed in Djibouti , Africa , so that has n't been fun ) . Make sure you verify your YouTube account so you can upload videos longer than 15 minutes . Once you get the equipment ( total cost ~ $ 1000 without the computer ) , you 'll need to learn how to use everything . You have to remember to record all your lectures , and plan on spending five minutes or so setting everything up before class , unless you have your own classroom . I simply focus the camcorder on the board and me , with a bit of room on the sides for me to move around . If you want panning and zooming , you 'll have to rely on someone else to do it . Getting up to speed with the editing software can take time , especially if you have n't done it before . You could spend months editing a 1-hour class , but as I say , if you keep it bare-bones you can get the editing down to an hour or so of your time , including setting up all the steps to upload to YouTube . I record all my videos at 1080p , but I upload to YouTube at 480p because of my slow connection ( and my students have the same slow connection ) . I find that the board is difficult to read , even though the camera is only 10 feet away -- I also upload my slideshows and try to write big ! Bottom line : either convince your school to invest in a professional system so you do n't have to do much work yourself , or plan on spending a good bit of time ( and money , if your school wo n't pay for it -- I bought everything out of my own pocket , but as I say , I 'm enjoying it ) to learn the setup and edit/upload videos .
The reason why it is difficult to tell what workshops are about is because it is a catch-all category that many different types of academic meeting are labelled as . To illustrate , let me give examples of the nature of some of the events that I have attended in the last two years that all use the same word " workshop " to describe themselves : A " baby conference " attached to a full-size conference , where the small meeting simply is n't large enough to meet on its own yet . A project meeting for researchers who are all funded by the same large grant A planning and discussion session aimed at helping determine the direction of a field A joint industry/academia fact-finding meeting sponsored by an industry consortium A specialty conference attended by around 100 people A premier conference attended by several hundred people A working meeting by a standards development group The length of these meetings ranged from a single afternoon to a full week . Their programs ranged from nothing but loosely structured discussion to a full-on tightly packed conference schedule . The level of peer review ranged from non-applicable to minimal to full-on single-blind review and revision . In short : a workshop is whatever it wants to be , and different ones serve different purposes in the academic ecosystem .
Personally , I struggle coming up with good teaching materials ( lecture notes , homework questions , et cetera ) . I had lots of teachers that were either way too abstract where abstraction was n't necessary , or gave really wacky examples that did n't have much basis in real life , and I silently vowed not to do that to my own students . One way that I 've found to present real-life and relevant material is to draw upon my research . For example , if I 'm lecturing about a particular biological system that I study , I might walk the class through a particular experiment that I ran to test an aspect of the system . I find that students feel these lectures are the most interesting , and they seem to grasp the material better than if I gave a " standard " lecture . On the flip side , I always get 1-2 questions per semester where I do n't know the answer , and it turns out no one else in my field does either . As such , the questions I get while teaching are a source of research questions that I may attempt to answer . If I actually think the question can be answered , I almost always invite the student or students who posed the question to help me with the research , which is also another way teaching impacts research ( i.e. , I expose more people to what research is , and I get help doing it ) .
The easiest way to tell if fall grades will be taken into account is to look at the application instructions . If you see instructions asking you to provide your mid-year grades , then that 's a pretty clear indication that they will be taken into account during the admissions process . If you are not asked to submit it , then follow that guideline . If it 's optional for whatever reason , I would assume that you should plan as if it were a mandatory submission .
One difficulty is that it 's far from clear what the ideal dropout rate should be . Probably not zero , for two reasons : Even the best students sometimes find that their interests change over time , in ways nobody could have predicted . Dropping out may become a quite sensible choice , in which case it 's harmful for the university to discourage it . It 's reasonable for a university to give someone a chance even if it 's not certain that they will succeed . The only way to get a really low drop-out rate is to admit just the applicants that are obviously destined for success . The top few schools can get away with this , but if everyone tried it , then many talented candidates would be shut out from graduate school . So some attrition is OK , and some is bad but may be a necessary consequence of policies that are on the whole good . The question then becomes how you distinguish these kinds from needless and damaging attrition , and then how you minimize that kind . Advisors play a key role here , because some are much better than others at being supportive or motivational . However , at least in mathematics , most advisors do n't supervise very many students , so the numbers often are n't large enough to see patterns clearly . I 'm sure people have studied this problem , and perhaps identified best practices for addressing it . However , in my experience any studies or solutions are not especially influential ( at least in the few math departments I 've been in ) . Most discussions are at the stage of trying to figure out whether there is a real problem and if so why , rather than what to do about it .
If you are aiming for attending a top five mathematics department in the U.S. immediately afterwards , Part III of the Tripos plays almost no role . It 's not uncommon for students to do Part III , but often after already being admitted to the U.S. department and deferring for a year . Occasionally someone who was turned down the previous year applies again while doing Part III and is admitted , either because their application looks stronger or because they have better luck . However , attending Part III plays little role in this . The bar for Part III admission is lower than for top five U.S. Ph.D. programs in mathematics , so merely being admitted is not in itself a factor . The Cambridge academic year does n't even start until October , so there 's generally no useful way to get letters of recommendation from Cambridge faculty based on Part III : they simply do n't have enough to say at the point at which letters are needed . The net effect is that you are applying with letter writers based on the previous year , and the only function of Part III is demonstrating that you are doing something productive with your time ( it certainly looks better than taking a year off , for example ) .
Yes , I would suggest you include these in the CV for a graduate application . It probably wo n't make a huge difference in admissions , but it is evidence that you are interested and involved in the research community in your field . You can list them in any way that seems appropriate ; there 's no strict standard format for a CV . You probably have sections for " Education " and " Work experience " and maybe " Publications " ; make a similar section entitled " Conferences attended " or " Conference participation " or something like that . Include the title , date and location of each conference , and maybe a short sentence discussing the scope of the meeting and your role . ( As discussed in the question you linked : later in your career , you will probably want to take this section out . )
You forget one consideration : do you enjoy using that skill ? To take your own example , I enjoy programming , and even though I might not learn or get anything technical from it , I enjoy solving someone 's else problem with some lines of code :) Of course , one should be careful of the time spent and the reward you can get from it , but doing something you enjoy is very different than doing something you can , but do n't particularly enjoy doing . For instance , I can probably install a server and manage a website ( with a CMS ) for someone , but I do n't enjoy it , so I would be very explicit about the benefit ( I do that for you if you do that for me ) . But I could do some cool coding on my free time . On a completely different aspect , it also depends if you intend to stay in academia : it 's a very small world , and the person you 're doing a favor to today might be the one sitting on your tenure committee in 20 years ( if you work in the same department and all stay in academia , it 's quite likely that your paths will cross again at some point in the future ) .
end question
start question
Are reviewers chosen from among the editorial board of a journal ?
Generally , when a paper is submitted to a journal it is first assigned an editor . The editor then identifies a qualified outside reviewer for that particular manuscript , and invites him/her to review the paper . So the answer is : No , you should not expect that the possible reviewers of a paper are selected from among the members of the editorial board .
From my experience , reviewers get the whole proposal and also read the whole proposal . Reviewers try to get a complete picture of the applicant and skim the proposal for all relevant information in this regard . This means , that probably no reviewer will read every word of the proposal , but potentially , every word will be read by some reviewer . The reviewers base their review on the whole picture they get , but usually their feedback is only for the part for which they are specialists ( e.g. the scientific strength of the applicant and so on ... ) .
It 's not a myth . There are/have been some journals that pay peer reviewers . For example : The <URL> used to pay $ 5 per review , until some reviewers complained that " if that was the price that this eminent journal placed on their opinion , the New England Journal of Medicine should seek referees elsewhere " The <URL> reportedly pays for peer review " sometimes " Reviewers for journals published by the <URL> earn <URL> for each " timely " review . <URL> ( zbMATH ) pays 2.56 EUR per review , although this is for post-publication reviews that are then published . The <URL> offers " a review model in which selected peer reviewers may be paid to deliver high-quality and speedy peer-review reports " ( if authors pay an extra fee for the fast-track option ) The <URL> has offered an honorarium of $ 100 for each " timely " review <URL> pays its peer reviewers an honorarium of unspecified amount , supposedly " to motivate rigorous peer review " The <URL> ( which is on <URL> of allegedly predatory open-access journals and publishers ) pays reviewers for its journals $ 60 - $ 100 per review Whether the reviewer being paid , has more obligations to provide thorough in depth review is true or not is entirely uncertain , though .
As a general rule , you can not publish anything as original research that has already been published . ( You may be able to reprint it in other venues , but most research journals do not do this . ) Of course , the trick is what counts as " already published " . Nowadays , many publishers ( including all mathematics publishers , for example ) do not count informal distribution on the internet as prior publication . It 's common not to count extended abstracts from conference proceedings , although the journal may require some revisions or extensions . Nobody counts submitting a dissertation as prior publication , even if the university makes it available for download or purchase , and technical reports are generally in the same category . On the other hand , publication as a " real book " definitely counts as prior publication and would rule out journals . Of course , this just brings up the question of what a " real book " is . Basically , if it 's published by a serious academic publisher , with some nontrivial selection and editorial advice , then that counts as publication . On the other hand , if it 's some random publisher printing copies of Ph.D. theses and selling them online , then you could make a strong case that it 's not really published ( and that this is not so different from ordering a dissertation copy ) . However , I think you need to discuss this explicitly when submitting your paper . For example , you could add a sentence to your submission letter along the lines of " This work is based on my thesis from University X , which is available for sale by Y but has not been traditionally published " . It 's much better to deal with this upfront than to have someone later ask " Wait , why is someone selling copies of this work online ? "
Being a mathematician , I must address a logical loophole : I will assume that your field is a STEM field and thus poetry and songs are actually off-topic ( and not just called off-topic ) . How many legs does a dog have if you call the tail a leg ? Four . Calling a tail a leg does n't make it a leg . -- Abraham Lincoln Assuming this : no , I would not submit such creative materials as part of an application to a STEM PhD program . I would n't go so far as to say that submitting such things would be deemed an " affectation " : however , unless you make a clear connection to your chosen field , they are simply not relevant . Including irrelevant things is not a disaster , but it does indicate that you do n't have a clear understanding of what is relevant information in the consideration of your own prospects in that program , which is not great . Most such applications have a personal statement . Mentioning somewhere in the personal statement that you write poetry and songs sounds about right to me : from one human being to another , that is interesting , and personal statements are often not so interesting . But be careful here : a " personal statement " is not a statement about you as a person ! It is really an essay explaining why you would be a strong candidate for the program , so things which are not relevant to that should not be dwelled upon . Many programs do look at the personal statement as a writing sample -- and good writing skills are very relevant in any PhD program , probably more so than any other single quality -- so if you are an unusually good writer the personal statement would be a good opportunity to show your superior skills . However , trying to do that in the genre of either poetry or song would be so risky and open to negative reactions based on personal taste that I would n't recommend it : after all , in most STEM programs you need to be able to write prose , not poetry , and you are not really permitted to burst into song . This is probably a " color between the lines " situation . Added : I spent four ( recent ) years on the committee in charge of graduate admissions in the UGA mathematics department , and I still read some PhD applications every year .
To the best of my knowledge , there is no such rule . It would be problematic to put a figure in the first column ( which is tightly compressed between abstract and copyright blurb ) , but a figure at the top of the second column is fine . However , due to the way that document preparation is done for IEEE publications , it is highly unlikely that an author will end up with a figure on the first page unless they specifically choose to do so . The reason is that in the IEEE format ( both conference and journal ) , one rarely gets much beyond the introduction in the first page , and certainly never in the first column . IEEE papers are mostly prepared with LaTeX , and as such , if you use the normal figure placement , your figure will tend to end up at the top of the column after the column in which it is set and referenced in the source . Since it 's quite rare to have a figure at the beginning of a paper 's introduction , then it will be correspondingly rare to have a figure on the first page . Complementarily , an author who chooses to have a figure on the first page will typically need to move the figure significantly forward of its reference in the text in order for LaTeX to choose to place it at the top of the 2nd column . Most IEEE journals work directly from the author-submitted document rather than doing significant layout work by the journal , so if the author did n't put it on page 1 , nobody else is likely to either . Thus , we have the emergent phenomenon you 've noticed : because the defaults and tendencies in article production for IEEE make it unlikely that a figure will appear on the first page without author intervention , most papers have no figure on the first page . Personally , I like to intervene , because a figure on the first page really helps an article pop out to a reader and be more memorable and intelligible . I suggest that unless you have good reason to do otherwise , you do the same .
Generally speaking , they are looking for something new which contributes to the current literature of the field . If your paper fits in this context ( i.e. you believe your paper will enhance/improve current methods or even solve particular problem , then you got publishable work regardless of the reviewing output . For a particular journal , other factors are added to the significance of the work ( for example journal scope , writing level , paper format and methodology ) .
There is an obvious downside of staying at the same university -- you will only work with one set of advisors and contacts throughout your career . That will mean that you may not benefit from the experience and diversity of viewpoints and philosophies that comes from working with different groups of people across the length of your career . However , if there is a compelling reason to remain at your school , that 's a different situation . This could be financial , personal , or educational . For instance , a family member may have a job that makes it difficult to relocate , or a new project may be starting up that provides a unique educational opportunity . Beyond that , though , I would lean towards going somewhere else for your PhD program !
I think the best option is to set up your personal page and have your file hosted there . It is better to have your own independent site ( independent from your university ) in case you are to move to another university ( post-doc , faculty position , etc ) and can not host your file there anymore . Once you have the dissertation hosted somewhere , you can share it through social media sites like Facebook and LinkedIn . If that is not a possibility for you , another option would be to share it online in an open access database like Figshare ( <URL> ) . Note that you should double check guidelines from your university to ensure it is okay , and consider if you plan to publish your dissertation in a journal in the future ( some journals do not like it if the pre-prints are available elsewhere publicly ) . Here is an online post about why one decides to have dissertations hosted there . <URL>
The term competitors does not really describe the relationship between different scientists in the same field . Of course there is some competition for grants or such , or even to put one 's name in a new result , but some aspects are deeply different : A publication in your field is a good thing , even if it 's not from yourself . It makes your area important , and alive . It 's actually very important when it comes to applying for grants . You can not benefit from someone else 's work by writing negative reviews . There is no way to simply slow down publication of one paper in order to publish the result first . A rejected paper will not slow down the " competitors " research . Sure they will have to improve it and submit it elsewhere , but this takes a marginal time compared to the research process itself . Dishonest reviews are clearly dangerous , as some people will see your review with your name on it ( I 'm thinking of other reviewers on such systems as Easychair ) . These people might very well be the ones reviewing your grant application a few weeks later . why would one risk being exposed as dishonest , when anyway there are several reviews for the same paper , and any deep difference should trigger an in-depth investigation by the editor ? The most frequent bias I have seen are review of the form " you should cite those 5 obscure and vaguely related papers all from the same author " , which clearly indicate reviewers in need of citation , but nothing much worse .
In general , the program chairs want to know early which papers should be rejected directly without a rebuttal . To this end , the reviewers provide preliminary decisions with their review . These preliminary decisions are often changed later , based on the additional clarifications from the rebuttal . The preliminary decisions are usually not visible for the authors , but this can vary across specific conferences .
Males have historically outnumbered their female counterparts in the field of psychology , but this has changed in recent years . According to <URL> Psychology , once a man 's profession , now attracts mostly women . Data from the 1986 APA report , " The Changing Face of American Psychology , " and the National Science Foundation show that the percentage of psychology PhDs awarded to men has fallen from nearly 70 percent in 1975 to less than 30 percent in 2008 . ( The data do not include PsyD degrees . ) Not only are females over-represented in psychology as a whole , they appear to be even more over-represented in the sub-fields of developmental and child psychology . <URL> from the APA states In developmental and child psychology ... female PhD recipients outnumber men by more than five to one .
There 's a wide range of people called adjunct faculty . For example , it may include working professionals in the field who serve as part-time faculty ( this is common in law and architecture , and I 've seen it with industrial researchers in computer science ) . Depending on the circumstances , this sort of adjunct may be treated much like the other faculty in the department , except for being part time . However , I assume you are talking about the most common use of the term " adjunct " , at least in the US , namely low-paid , low-status faculty typically teaching part time on temporary contracts . ( They may be working full time overall , but only part time at any given institution , so the universities can avoid paying benefits . ) For this sort of adjunct , it really depends on the details of the contract , and it may vary between universities , as well as depending on issues such as whether any of the courses are online . A typical arrangement will include some amount of course design ( at least at the level of creating a syllabus ) , lecturing , grading , and office hours . Typically there is no committee work or other service and no research duties .
Pros : If one supervisor gets <URL> , you still have a second supervisor who is familiar with your work and can thus give constructive comments on it , hopefully appreciate it and in particular evaluate it . Often , your supervisor is the only person at your university who is actually capable of fully understanding and properly judging your thesis and defense . If one supervisor turns bad or turns out to be bad and for example gives bad advice , makes ridiculous demands or even expects you to do questionable things , you can still turn to the other supervisor for advice or to have a serious word with the bad supervisor . If the relationship to the bad advisor goes totally awry , you may have the option to drop them and be supervised by the other supervisor alone . It depends : You may be expected to do more or less work . For example , if you are doing an interdisciplinary work and have one supervisor from each discipline , the supervisors may only understand and value the work you do in their respective half and thus think that you did not do enough . On the other hand , they may also overestimate the work in the respective other half and thus be more easily satisfied . You can benefit from the experience of both supervisors and learn something from one advisor that you can not learn from the other . Cons : You may be affected by disputes between the supervisors . For example the first supervisor may tell you to do something in a certain way and then the second supervisor blames you for it . If aspects of your work require input from both advisors , you may need to wait not only for one supervisor to have time for you but for two . This is in particular difficult , if you need to talk about something with both your supervisors at the same time . Some of the above obviously depends on the details of the relationships between your supervisors and the reason for the co-supervision . Thus , you can only judge yourself , if these points apply to your case and how important they are for you .
I do . I have print subscriptions to three major journals in my field , all through optional add-ons to society memberships . I do so for three reasons : It forces me to read and interact with the literature . Online tables of contents , journal RSS feeds etc. can be ignored because another staff meeting is coming up , I really should submit an abstract , etc. . The arrival of a printed journal gives me an excuse once a month/quarter/every two weeks etc. to sit down and engage with my field . I read articles I would not otherwise read . General society journals have papers in areas that are not strictly my field . Sometimes , I read these , because I know the authors , liked a particular plot while I was flipping through , or because it pings my curiousity . I rarely read PDF papers outside my field . Journals are more durable than print-and-staple publications . They live in my bag . I read them at lunch . I read them in the bathroom . I read them at the gym . I do things to them that I would n't dare do to either an iPad or other electronic reader or a few flimsy pieces of copier paper .
This does not fully answer your question , but it is certainly one consideration . Multidisciplinary theses are often examined by multidisciplinary committees . Examining such theses is difficult , especially if the committee has no experience examining multidisciplinary theses . A consequence is that you will often be forced to conform to the conventions of different communities . In addition , the chemistry committee member may not see the thesis as a chemistry thesis and the sociology committee member may not see the thesis as a sociology thesis , because it lies somewhere in between the two fields and can not be a complete thesis in both fields .
The editor , who selects the reviewers , may not be familiar with the particular sub-area , when a journal is not hyper-narrowly focused . In that case , providing a list of potential reviewers directs the editor 's attention to possible scholars in the area . Once your attention has been drawn to an individual , you can spend some time discovering whether they would actually be good in that area .
I have n't been able to publish any papers in international journals yet , though I 'm determined to do so . Will it increase my chances ? Certainly . A post-doc is supposed to play an active role in the publication output of the department . Demonstrating that you have experience with academic publishing is certainly valuable . Without it , it will be difficult to land a academic post-doc position . So how do you successfully find a post-doc position ? First you need to find open positions that fit really well with your experience . Then , you will need to convince them that you are a fit candidate . It certainly helps if you can show tangible results . Think of e.g. working programs that you wrote . You might also consider doing a short post-graduate program at an institute where you would like to do a post-doc ( e.g. in the Netherlands there are 2 year PDEng programs ) . In this way you can demonstrate your abilities , and also get settled in the country of your designation .
<URL> on the <URL> answers your question : The Eigenfactor score is intended to measure the importance of a journal to the scientific community , by considering the origin of the incoming citations , and is thought to reflect how frequently an average researcher would access content from that journal . However , the Eigenfactor score is influenced by the size of the journal , so that the score doubles when the journal doubles in size ( measured as published articles per year ) . To give a simple example : the Journal of Physical Chemistry B is the highest-ranked journal in physical chemistry by this criterion ... in good part because it carries the largest number of articles . It is a good journal , but under all other metrics it is not at the very top of its field .
My strong advice is a clear NO ! There are several reasons : The journal might contact other reviewers , not the ones you suggested . Possible conflict of interest , even if you do n't send your paper with the review request The reviewing process is a business between the editor and the reviewer . It is specially designed to enhance the quality of the accepted papers ( Blind , double blind reviews , etc ) . Once you contact the reviewers , any chance of a blind review goes up in smoke . If the potential reviewer that you contact , is not selected by the journal he/she might feel offended . So , in a word : NO
end question
start question
Do hiring committees actually give preference to underrepresented groups ?
While I am in a corporate position , our process has some similarity , and I also discuss these issues frequently with colleagues in more traditional academia . What I have observed is that at the level of faculty or other primary investigator hiring , direct comparison of candidates is almost always impossible : it is always apples vs. oranges because every candidate is qualitatively different in what they bring to offer the department . Thus there is no opportunity for a simple positive discrimination like " given two equally qualified candidates , pick the underprivileged one . " Instead , any strong candidate will have an advocating faction whose interests they would support , and opposition from another faction whose interests would be better supported by a different candidate . These pragmatic interests are likely to dominate over diversity considerations in the final decision in many cases . Where diversity considerations are more likely to factor into the process is earlier on , when candidates for interview are being selected . Here , demographic information can be used so that a group can notice , " Hey , we 're only planning to invite white males ... maybe we are being biased in our evaluation and should look deeper into the candidate pool . " It probably still is n't enough to make up for the implicit negatives , however .
It 's always good practice to cite as closely as possible , especially in a book . LaTeX makes it easy to do this with the form . For a paper , it 's often not necessary since one typically cites the main result of a paper . But even with a paper , if what you 're citing is a lemma buried inside ( and that is not obvious from the abstract ) it 's good to say or something like that . As to why people do n't do it , AnonymousMathematician already answered that above .
are there good reasons not to choose an area of research in which very few people work worldwide ? There might be . a research clique might be at work : sometimes , often unintentionally , you can observe a bunch of researchers starting to push some topic and ending up absorbed in their own little world proposing extensions of extensions of extensions and not noticing that they became irrelevant . Usually because something is wrong with the problem they work on . But sometimes such a niche might be actually very healthy , except the topic did not caught up more popularity in the relevant mainstream community . something might be wrong with the problem they tackle : sometimes a group of absorbed ( as above ) researchers looses connection with reality and pushes towards solving a problem which does not exist anymore because somebody else solved it just by the way along a route to some other problem and everybody else recognized . something might be wrong with the method the small group applies to the problem they tackle : sometimes the problem is good ( see below ) , but the bunch tries to hopelessly push a method which simply does not yield anything . Often this is accompanied with use of a highly specialized terminology so that it is difficult to see that the method they use and the problem they tackle is in fact very much related to something else what yields more healthy research in the relevant mainstream community . More generally , do n't worry about the size of the field . What matters is whether the problem at the core of the niche is real and sound . Real means that solving it can have an impact on the society at large . You need to believe in your cause . For the sake of this blob , let sound mean that you see a solid way to articulate it and get a grip on it , most preferably including a method to measure progress . If you have the two , you are set even if the community tackling the problem is relatively small . All the rest is up to your capabilities and the difficulty level of the problem . Trust your judgement .
What improves most your English level ( or help you maintain it if you have reached a certain level which you deem satisfactory ) is usage of the language in all its forms : listening , speaking , reading , writing . This is especially easy in this age of globalization and technology : just keep reading texts of all kinds , listening to the radio , watching TV programs in original language ( BBC news , series , ... ) , professional podcasts or videocasts , etc. . In addition , comparing the proofread text of articles with your original version can help you better understand some of the mistakes you make , the invalid constructions you may use and the <URL> that give you away as a non-native speaker . However , unless you write ( and get proofread ) a large number of papers , this might not be enough to improve significantly . Another possibility is to pay a teacher to actually review with you , on a regular basis , texts that you have written . Although it takes quite a bit of time , I believe it is one of the best ways to improve your written English , along with reading a lot .
As aeismail says , there 's no single answer . As with most things in life , it 's hard to know when you 're " ready " to do something . The best way is to jump in when you feel like you do n't need to prep any more , and then be prepared to shore up weaknesses as you spot them . Over time , you 'll learn how to prepare yourself to embark on a new research topic : some people like to start solving a problem first , and then return to the literature when they get stuck . Some people like to read a few key papers to get a sense of the main open problems and techniques , and then go off and play . The only important thing is that you do something , and not just wait on the sidelines for a mythical feeling of " readiness " to emerge . Be fearless , like a 2 year old who does n't know enough to be afraid :)
How should you talk about the weakness ? Honestly . This does n't mean you need to dwell on it or undermine all the rest of this talk around your point . But if you know about a serious weakness , you should n't be afraid to acknowledge it when necessary . Yes , your work will appear less awesome as a result . But which of these two scenarios would you rather have ? You show the work you did , acknowledge the weakness , and discuss how you think it would be best to improve the work in the future in order to achieve the overall goals . You have n't solved the problem , but you 've taken a useful step . You claim your work has no weaknesses , and when people inevitably notice , they think that you are either too foolish to notice the weakness or too insecure and self-important to acknowledge it . Your paper was accepted , despite the reviewers pointing out the weakness , and that means people must find something of value in it . Focus on the value that is still there despite the weakness , and let that be the point on which you build .
In my experience in the US , I have never seen any sort of decision letter for an application ( whether for Ph.D. or any position ) that gives reasons for the decision . It may be different in other countries , but in the US at least , there are many good reasons to never give such information formally . The actual decision-making process is never as clean and clear-cut as anybody wants it to be , and with the limited information available in applications and even interviews , there are going to be cases where people make mistakes or make good decisions for unclear or hard to state reasons . Lots of good people may get turned down for reasons having nothing to do with them , such as just having too many good candidates in the same area . If an institution gives real reasons in an official statement ( as opposed to something meaningless and bland like " not an appropriate fit at this time " ) , then it is opening up the door for all sorts of potential problems and disputes , not to mention potential legal liability if something could be construed as relating to a protected category such as gender , age , religion , or ethnicity . They also have to worry about seriously unbalanced people who may take it as a personal insult and begin some sort of stalking or harassment campaign ( it happens ! ) . Not giving reasons may feel unsatisfying and cowardly , but it is an easy and safe path for an institution , and as such is generally official policy . Now , if you have an informal trusted relationship with somebody who was involved in the decision process , then it is sometimes possible to get a strictly unofficial take on what may have happened . You might learn things you did n't want to know about how sausage is made , however .
Do not use any professional letterhead when you are not speaking " on behalf " of the entity it comes from . Using your status , like explaining who you are or whatever , is fine . However , the sole fact of using entity 's letter head , implicitly involves your employer and can only ends in a bad situation . If you are writing to another department of the same university , like in case of an internal matter , this can be deemed acceptable , but otherwise I would refrain from doing it .
The top universities often have a lot of reasonably obscure funding options . For example with the University of Cambridge - if you go through the steps at <URL> they list all their funding options , you 'll see for Physics there are fully-funded scholarships such as these that might be of interest to you : Leslie Wilson Research Scholarship ( # 17,427 per year ) Winton Scholarship ( s ) in the Physics of Sustainability Thalmann Bequest ( covers EU fees only ) Schiff Fund ( upto # 20,000 per year ) Gulbenkian Studentship ( specifically for non-UK nationals ) <URL> The equivalent website for the University of Oxford is <URL> and it reckons 35 Scholarships were found for a new student from Belgium studying Theoretical Physics ( DPhil ) so I 'm not going to list them all here !!! Best of luck !
We can make the same conversation for BSc or MSc degrees . There are probably many unemployed people with BSc degrees , as well . We can not suggest that people should not go for higher education , because there are actually fewer jobs than university graduates . Your question seems to neglect an important , yet simple truth . That sometimes , certain people want to go for a higher degree , regardless of their job outcome . Education ( PHD included ) is more than filling resumes or getting a better job but a fulfillment in itself . In this sense , it is the same as learning to play the guitar . Does the world need a new guitar player ? No it does not . But you do not learn the guitar to benefit society . You learn the guitar to benefit your soul . If the few lucky PHD holders manage to get the job they wanted that is fine . If they did not , at least they tried . Life is not linear and you can not predict by your actions on what job you will land , even if you do everything perfectly . But at least , you must be provided with a chance to try . In that sense , it is better than there are actually more PHDs available than the available jobs for PHD holders . More people have access to an even higher education and that is ( as aeismail said ) a benefit in itself . So to directly answer your question : Do we need more PHDs ? No , we do n't . Would the world be a better place if you or I get a PHD ? No , it wo n't . Would we get the job we want with a PHD ? Probably not . But that does not mean that I must not have the right to do a PHD and try my chances .
I 'd recommend waiting a week or two to see whether you get a response to your withdrawal . At this stage it ca n't be urgent to resubmit immediately , and having their reply would guarantee that they are aware that you have withdrawn the paper . ( By contrast , I do n't think an e-mail read receipt means much . For all you know , an administrative assistant opened the e-mail and then mistakenly deleted it without realizing what it said . ) I would n't go so far as to say you are required to wait for a response , but better safe than sorry . I think you 've got a much bigger issue to worry about , though , and that 's why you withdrew the paper after acceptance . At least in mathematics , withdrawing an accepted paper is extremely unusual . To a first approximation , it typically means there 's something seriously wrong with either the paper or the journal . You can certainly do it , but given the effort that has gone into handling and refereeing the paper , you will cause offense if you do n't have a very good reason . If you inadvertently submitted the paper to a junk or predatory journal , then you do n't need to worry about causing offense . ( Offending the editors of predatory journals is not a bad thing . ) In that case , withdrawing the paper is certainly the right decision . If you dreadfully screwed up in your choice of journal , for example by submitting a brilliant breakthrough to a respectable but not impressive journal without realizing how good the paper was , then you should apologize profusely for wasting everyone 's time . Hopefully they 'll understand that it was a genuine mistake on your part , and they 'll sympathize with the awkward position you are in and give their blessing to resubmitting elsewhere . If the paper is seriously flawed , then that 's a respectable reason to withdraw it . You might look bad for having submitted it , but then again , the referee did n't find the mistake either . But this is n't a compelling reason to submit elsewhere soon : if you do n't check whether the original journal is willing to publish the revised paper , then it looks like the changes were just an excuse to withdraw the paper . Under normal circumstances , it will cause offense if people think you are withdrawing an accepted paper just to try your luck at a more prestigious journal . In particular , this is a dangerous impression to leave if you ever hope to submit to this journal again . As an editor , I would certainly not be happy to see a new submission from an author who had previously withdrawn an accepted paper without a compelling excuse . All this gives you another reason to move slowly and wait for a reply . If you have a good reason for withdrawal , then it 's worth making sure you have communicated it clearly . In any case , you are doing something rather unusual and serious , and it 's best not to give the impression you are treating it lightly or casually .
My guess is that this probably happened at least once , but that it is rare , and for it to have a non-negligible effect on admissions is very rare . Let me give a few reasons : 1 ) Admission for an undergraduate program at a US university is a very different process from an admission for a graduate program at the same university . In the former case , most of the people handling admissions are admissions officers : these are staff members of the university that are in direct contact with the administration . They also meet students and parents of students in large quantities . They have a variety of motivations for admitting students , and they admit such a large number of students that any one admission decision could be chalked up to breadth / desire for ( e.g. geographic ) diversity / individual taste . In the latter case , all of the people who are materially involved are faculty ( usually tenure track faculty ) in the department . As a tenured faculty member in a research university , my communications with students ' parents outside of a quick handshake at graduation day ( if I attend , which I most often do not ) are exceedingly rare . When we admit a student into a graduate program , it 's because we think that they are ( i ) likely to successfully complete the program and ( ii ) likely to be more successful than other students whom we did not admit . One wrongly admitted student can really drain a lot of departmental resources . In some STEM fields , admissions are not even done by a committee ; they are done by the PI who wants the student to work with them . Whether this situation is more or less susceptible to generous family donations , I ca n't say . 2 ) The idea of a " legacy student " makes less sense at the graduate level . In most cases that I know about , large donations to universities are made by alumni of that university . Moreover , a successful alumnus of university X often wants their children to go to university X , spends a lot of time telling their children that when they are growing up , is a generous donor to university X over a period of many years , and so forth . It is less likely that a child of someone who attended university X is going to want to attend a graduate program in university X : the best graduate programs in a given academic field are only mildly well correlated with the best undergraduate programs . 3 ) While it is very surprising to many , there really is infrastructure in place for " legacy admits " to undergraduate programs at many universities . There is no such infrastructure in place in graduate programs , so far as I know ( certainly not in my STEM US graduate program ) . Most faculty are by nature highly independent and not very amenable to being influenced by administrators . In fact many faculty are quick to spot the possibility of influence and push back against it . If a dean in my university came into my office and told me ( I am the graduate coordinator of my department ) that a certain Mr. Y was the son of an extremely generous donor and that I should take that into account accordingly ... well , suffice it to say that I would have to steel myself not to allow that to have a negative effect on Mr. Y 's admissions . However : 4 ) At the graduate level , the decision is not just admit / reject , it is admit with funding / admit without funding / reject . Most departments do have lower standards to admit students without funding . If someone came to us and said " We 'd like you to admit this student to the program . His funding will be totally covered for as long as he 's here . Moreover , we will give you [ enough money to be able to fund another student , say ] " then ... well , this has certainly never happened . But would we give it some consideration ? Probably we would , if the student had a broadly suitable background in absolute terms . In the field of mathematics in the US at least , being a graduate student and paying your own way is not a position of prestige .
It is nice to do so ( especially if you mention their support in the acknowledgement - which may even be the only things they 'll read ) , but it is far from required .
In the past , at least , the default seemed to be that the list of all recipients showed up on the form of the records sent to graduate programs . I know this because I was/am on admissions committees and saw such information . On another hand , I do also know that it is possible to suppress it , since in recent years most GRE reports seem not to show this to admissions committees . Unfortunately , I do not know how the examinee arranges to suppress that information . It certainly is not done automatically , despite the obvious point that it should be private .
I think this is too broad a question to have a really good answer , but I think the most generic one is : not really . If your study abroad experience could provide some unique opportunity to deepen your knowledge of the field , then that might get some real consideration . Otherwise , it probably wo n't be seen that differently from other classes , and in some cases viewed more skeptically if they were at a program whose reputation is less established . EDIT : In particular , to address the last sentence , living abroad will count for extremely little . As one counterexample , I will mention that when I applied for grad school , one graduate director explicitly mentioned my study abroad experience . However , I think this is the sort of exception that proves the rule : I went to a very <URL> specific to my field ; I was going to a small liberal arts institution , so the study abroad program actually had a stronger reputation , probably ; and I took a very ambitious schedule and he mentioned the specific classes I had taken , not the generic fact that I had gone . My point is , study abroad can mean many things . Use your good sense ( or talk to mentors ) about how different ones can affect your graduate school applications .
Send him a message Even if you think you know the only truth , maybe there is something you do n't know about this award . If there is no response in . . let 's say 48 hours , let 's go to phase 2 EDIT : concerning the timing , @O . R.Mapper is right , if he is on a vacation ... bad luck . Send a message to the committee They gave the award , so explain the situation , and ask them to put on their website the name of the winner for each year . Explain why you want this . If the commitee is reacting ( if not , will be hard : / ) Send a ( still ) polite mail to the cuprit and tell him he MUST remove what he puts online . No response ? let 's go to the last part Write to his university Even if you think they might not care , it 's still a graduate student , it 's bad for the reputation of the university to have graduate student with a bad behaviors . EDIT : as said by @CaptainEmacs , do NOT to accuse someone , even if you 're sure it is the truth . Tell politely that you think he might have mistaken , that is all . I think that 's the proper way to do it .
Would , say , a MechE/CS student maintain a leg up applying to a CS program related to robotics ? A Math/CS applying to theory-based CS ? Does it vary between fields ? All else being equal , YES . Speaking specifically for theoretical computer science , I am much more likely to recommend a PhD applicant for admission if they have a strong mathematics background . A second major is not the more important thing , though ; majors are just administrative hurdles . I look for which advanced math classes the applicant has taken , how the recommendation letters describe their mathematical ability/maturity , and how fluently they use mathematics in their research statement . Yes , the effect varies significantly between fields . For example , my robotics colleagues are much more likely to recommend applicants with strong mathematics backgrounds , and my software engineering colleagues are much more likely to recommend applicants with software industry experience . Of course , as Daniel points out , <URL> is never <URL> .
I have seen co-first authors in the social sciences , but it is not very common . It is usually indicated in a very small footnote that the " authors contributed equally " or something to that extent . Given that this practice is the exception than the rule , it is hard to imagine that committees ( in the social sciences ) will give much attention to this in whatever decision that is being made . Thus , I am in complete agreement with you that a ' co first-author ' paper will actually be counted as a ' first author ' paper . For me , co-first authorship does n't really mean much to me ( in the social sciences ) . It is hard for me to believe that the contributions of the co-first authors were equal . Did they really quantify the actual intellectual contribution ? Did they really work equally as hard ? Did they really write equally as much ? It would be impossible to balance every aspect of the work , so every co-first authorship paper in the social sciences is based on different divisions of labor , so the title co-first authorship really does n't mean much . ( BTW , I would be very interested in seeing a ' highly cited ' paper in the social sciences that is co first-authored . )
You are unlikely to get examples about formal hiring bans , in particular in western societies . It would not only be frowned upon , as in this case ; it would also be against university policies , if not downright illegal . The only formal hiring bans I could think of are those implied by more general rules . The most obvious case coming to mind is that about 20 countries do n't allow people with Israeli passport to enter , which means they can not study or teach there either ( about half a dozen or so countries extend this to people with other passports but evidence of a travel to Israel ) . Unfortunately , it is possible that the professor was speaking a truth about what some consider in their hiring decisions ... where usually they would only have the common sense to not explicitly admit the true reasons for their decisions . They would start where this professor is now : claiming that their labs are full . This is human nature , and academics are no better or worse than their fellow humans dealing with their fear and prejudice in regrettable ways .
First , let me place my answer in the context of American academia . I 'm sure that in some other parts of the world social conventions are different . Contemporary American academia is one of the more formally progressive and tolerant subsets of western society . There are American schools which recognize a student 's right not to have any gender ! Although this is an extreme point , academic culture places a premium on toleration of personal differences , to the extent that most hiring committees are instructed not to take such " irrelevant things " as personal appearance into account . But do they ? I think all human beings do , in some ways . I do believe that people who are more physically attractive make more attractive job candidates , all other things being equal ( and there are lots of studies to back this up ) . Recently for health reasons I lost a substantial amount of weight , and I think that my relations with undergraduate students are noticeably better , e.g. resulting in higher evaluations . Of course this probably has at least as much to do with the way I ( nonverbally ) communicate that I perceive myself : being more comfortable in your own skin shows . As a result , if long hair feels natural and good to you , then I would recommend that you keep it . Like Samson , it may somehow be a source of strength for you . I was going to say that even the fact that you 're asking about it seems slightly strange , but then I remembered that as a graduate student I would shave my goatee every fall ( when I was teaching ) and let it grow every spring ( when I was n't ) . I have now had a goatee continuously since getting a PhD in 2003 ! I also used to dress more nicely for class than I otherwise would . While I still think that one should not wear clothing which is especially ratty in any professional context , I have long since learned that nobody cares whether I wear sneakers or a jacket or anything like that . The other thing is that it is not 1964 anymore : the men who were long-haired youths in the 1970s are now some of the senior people around , and many are still proudly growing long what remains of their hair . Both of the men who have been department heads in my time at my present job grow their hair longer than what conservative mores would recommend , and the current chair has hair halfway down his back . It is really no big deal . Let me say finally that the odd faculty member who mutters something sour about your hair probably had other reasons not to like you . And if not , do you really want colleagues who are so superficial and intolerant ? Times are tough , but I think one needs to make feeling comfortable in one 's own skin a high priority .
end question
start question
OK to ask a professor at my institution with whom I have no previous relationship some questions relating to hobby-project ?
Yes , it is entirely appropriate , especially if you come to them in person and just knock on their office door when they 're around and ask if they can spare 5 minutes to answer a question or two . If you are nice , polite , curious and fun to talk to ( and you sound like all of those things to me ) they may easily end up talking to you for an hour . Busy or not , professors are people and love to procrastinate just like anyone else . :-) Email is a lot less likely to work , but again , I do n't see it as inappropriate , simply less effective . And do n't overthink it . Knocking on someone 's ( even a stranger 's ) office door is not the same as hugging them , and not every decision in life should be agonized over and analyzed in minute detail . Just try it , the worst that can happen is ... nothing .
Mandatory is a difficult concept . I think it is ethically questionable to not allow a participant to withdraw from a study at any time . There may be edge cases , for example drug studies , where further follow up treatment is required , but even here I think that treatment would not be considered part of the study . When a participant withdraws from a study we still need to provide them with whatever inconvenience allowance was agreed . We are not even allowed to prorate the inconvenience allowance , however , we break our longer studies into hour long segments and pay an hourly inconvenience allowance . It is perfectly reasonable to use a " forced choice " response system where participants are required to give a response in order to continue with the study . Using the Mechanical Turk , I think ethically you should provide an easy means of dropping out that is constantly available that will not penalize the participants . When it is so easy to withdraw , forcing them to answer a question which is not inherently necessary , seems silly . If they do not want to answer it and they have no other option , they will just withdraw . Consider two experiments that consist of two questions . In the first experiment you either show either a circle or a square that is either red or blue . If for whatever reason the participant does not want to tell you what shape they saw , you can still get meaningful information about the color and therefore it would make no sense to force them to answer the first question . In the second experiment you show them a face and ask if it is a man or a women and based on that response you ask them if it was either Alice or Carol or Bob or Dave . For this experiment they need to answer the first question .
If you do not have publications ( including papers " in press " ) then the publications list can be left empty . If you have papers . You can , however add headings for publications " under review " , if you have any or " manuscripts in preparation " , again , if you have any . You may also have unpublished reports of different types . Such contributions can also be listed under a separate heading . What can be included is difficult to say but in my case , I used to include annual reports I had to write to a super-computer center and a research station , both which were collated with others and printed by the organising body . So any report sitting in a drawer is not valid . Obviously the a " manuscript in preparation " will not be very strong but it will at least indicate that something is ongoing . But , note that a manuscript in preparation should be something worth reading to make it to such a list . In a situation like yours any written material prepared for some official body and with some distribution , can be used to indicate your activities . There is a grey zone which is undefinable ( which is why one generally avoids such listings later in the career ) , so do not put in anything . In short , you need to be able to show these " claims " .
I might be able to help answer this from a background in Psychometrics . Where I work we produce many tests that are all standardised and then equated to be put onto the same scale . These scales however , from one test to another , are unrelateble , unless of course the two differing tests have an equating study completed to determine the shift factor to transfer a scale from say Test 1 to the scale of Test 2 . To construct a scale , we first analyse the test data , so student response data and item ( question ) data . We do the analysis using the Rasch Model , which only takes into account two variables , the students ' abilities and the items ' difficulties . This allows us to construct a dataset that contains the logit levels of the students ' abilities and of the items ' difficulties . Definition of Logit : A logit is a unit of measurement to report relative differences between candidate ability estimates and item difficulties . Logits are an equal interval level of measurement , which means that the distance between each point on the scale is equal ( 1-2 = 99-100 ) . Once the logit tables have been created they can be used to create a scale by applying a simple linear transformation , such as : scale score = 10 * logit difficulty + 250 In some of the work I do we have scale scores that actually are below 0 , however most of the work I do , scale scores are constructed such that the minimum is around 200 or so . The construction of the scale is for the most part entirely arbitrary . If you wish to see how the logits of students and items are calculated please read : <URL> Also as an extra note : There are other models for doing test analysis , such as the 2PL ( Introduces an additional parameter to Rasch Model ( 1PL ) , the items discrimination ) , the 3PL ( Introduces an additional parameter to the 2PL , which is a guess factor , this creates a minimum probability of getting the item incorrect which depends on your guess value ) , there is also a 4PL which adds an additional parameter ( the slip paremeter , that creates a ceiling probability , that is not 1 , for getting an item correct ) . I hope this helps and provides some extra information that may be of use .
If she has reviewed for these journals , then she has , regardless of who asked her to do it , and she can certainly put it on her CV ( it 's accurate and she can back it up ) . One caveat would be if she wrote the reviews but they were submitted under her boss 's name ( with the journals ' agreement ) - in that case , it would be important for her to make clear that she was doing the reviews in lieu of her boss , and was n't asked to do them in her own right . In other words , she certainly has the reviewing experience , but was asked because of her boss 's expertise in the field and not her own ( even if she may have that expertise as well ) .
No , I do n't think it 's rude at all . A sabbatical is not meant as a complete vacation from work . Rather , it 's a time for the professor to focus on scholarly work without the distraction of teaching or ( usually ) administrative duties . I 'd say that asking the professor to comment on your essay is definitely a scholarly activity , and so it 's a reasonable request . Of course , it 's up to the professor whether he actually wants to do it or not , or if he has time to do it given his other activities . Do n't be offended if he declines . Also keep in mind that many professors travel extensively during sabbaticals , or spend the entire time at another institution , so even if he is interested , he may not be able to meet with you in person - you may have to discuss it over email , Skype , etc. .
You say that your work on methods is uninteresting , but that you believe the results to be valuable . That 's great ! You should write a paper about the results ! Sometimes people feel like the amount of manuscript text they produce for each aspect of their work should be proportional to the time and energy put into that aspect , e.g. , if you spent 3/4 of your time working on the methods , then your text should be approximately 3/4 about the methods . That is incorrect . The amount of space something takes up in the text should be proportional to how interesting it is to the reader . Sometimes you have to put in a lot of work on something that is very simple to explain , and that 's OK . Focus on the bits that will be interesting to the reader , and instead tell your friends the stories of how long and hard you worked on the " uninteresting " bits to get there .
The key factor here is that the professor X is retiring . He is not attempting to initiate a group discussion , he is trying to pass you off to the other CC professors and give you an introduction to them . The correct way to respond is to send a nice single-addressee thank you note to original professor X only , perhaps also asking your query about Professor T , then send a single-addressee email to each individual Professor listed in the CC . The key here is that you wo n't be working with the group , you 'll only be working with one of them .
Yes , this is a fine question to ask , although I might phrase is slightly differently : " How happy are you with the progress that I am making ? " which makes it a little more open-ended and focuses the question more on process and progress .
I think it is OK but , before you attend that conference ; try to identify the professors who come to the discussion panels and sessions . Their names are normally written in the conferences ' websites . Then search their university homepage on the net and read some of their publications . This way you find two or three professors that their research interest is almost near yours . At the day of the conference , go to the sessions in which they present and politely after a short introduction about yourself ; ask whether they accept any PhD student or plan to accept one or not . I have seen that some MSc students go to the conferences and ask any professor they see without any previous search about their academic background . This behavior is so impolite . Sometimes , in the professors ' website , they have notifications about not accepting new PhD students . In this case , asking them for a PhD position is not acceptable and means that the person has never visited his website and probably he is not a good student at all . This way , they may not even listen what you are talking to about . If in some cases , there are some positions available and notified on their website , then go to that professor , show them your curriculum vitae and ask them for a position ; or talk to them about opportunities available for a PhD student . If you are interested in working with a professor but there are not any positions available ; then talk about doing some volunteer research under their supervision . However , it all depends on your research background and how much they find you suitable for working on a research topic . For instance , if you have a good programming background and they need a programmer in their research group , they may accept you to work on some parts of their research project ; and after a few months , if any PhD position become available , you will have a higher chance to compete for that position , because the professor knows you better as you have previously worked with him . Conferences are so valuable for the research students to become familiar with ongoing research projects and publications . In these conferences , you may talk to other researchers or PhD students and start a research project which is interesting for both of you . So , do not miss the chance to discuss and talk to the other people at the conference ; and not just focus on the professors . Besides to these , some companies may need a person like you who has done a research in the field of your interest . So talk to them . There may be some funding or grants available which you can apply for . I think that if you have your paper printed with your resume attached to it may help the professor to remember you and if any positions be available in future , he may contact you . Remember that not all the people have good memory to remember the others with detailed information about their resume and paper . People easily forget details about the past . If your resume be interesting for them and they forget you because they have no printed information about you , then you may miss a research position .
Yes , you can ask your former professor . No , it 's almost certainly not required that all referees be current academics . There 'd be no sensible reason for a graduate program to require that . Your professor can use her best judgment as to whether to fill the form with her current position or something like " Professor ( former ) " . In the letter , she should explain what her position was at the time that she worked with you .
I am currently the Graduate Coordinator of my department ( mathematics , UGA ) , and it is the season for me to get a lot of emails from would-be or might-be graduate students . Variations on " Will my application be competitive if I apply ? " are the most common question I 'm getting . It 's okay to ask this question in the sense that it does n't bother me at all and I will reply with something . On the other hand , my reply in most cases has been along the lines " Thank you for your interest in our program . I encourage you to apply . " I do n't think it 's in anyone 's best interests -- mine , my department 's , or the questioner 's -- for me to try to evaluate the degree of competitiveness of an application based on very incomplete , self-described information . I can ( and do ) address the required components of the application . If based on the information provided it seems like applying to a graduate ( usually PhD ) program at a top 50 math department may be a mismatch -- e.g. the applicant 's undergraduate major is in something other than mathematics ( or a closely related field with many mathematics classes taken ) -- then I might explore that a bit in the reply . But the bottom line is that the application process is relative and competitive , so more than likely we ca n't know how any given applicant will fare until we see all the applications : i.e. , until we go through the application process . ( However , if the self-described profile of the applicant sounds very strong , then I may mention that and encourage them more enthusiastically . ) A few final comments : 1 ) I can see that it is frustrating to apply , perhaps repeatedly , without knowing one 's chances . But in fact the state of applying for a bunch of things without knowing whether one will get them is a quite common one in later academia , so maybe it would be well to wrap your mind around it now . ( It is not a trivial thing to wrap one 's mind around . I was a really excellent high school student . When I took the PSATs I expected to become a National Merit Scholar , and I did . I applied to the University of Chicago not just because I expected to get admitted but because I expected to get a merit-based scholarship , and I did . I had enough of this kind of expected success that when it came to optional academic competitions / scholarships for which the outcome was in real doubt -- and especially when I did n't see success improving my life in any clear way -- I often did n't apply / show up / give my best effort , to the point of occasionally disappointing my mentors . Looking back at all this , I must say that I find my behavior quite rational . But it 's not the way that " grownup academia " works . ) I spend weeks every year writing a big national grant application ; thus far , I 've applied for the grant five times , gotten it once , not gotten it three times , and the latest time is pending and will be for many months . For this grant ( NSF ) , I do get feedback every year , which is helpful overall ( though sometimes frustrating in its particulars ) . On the other hand , I have applied twice for a smaller , privately funded grant ( Simons ) . When I did n't get it the first time and got no feedback about it , I was pretty taken aback and felt like complaining about it . But I thought it through : it was clearly to my advantage to suck it up and apply again . I did , and I got the grant the second time . That 's grownup academic life -- relatively successful grownup academic life , in fact . 2 ) There is a kernel of advice lurking in point 1 ) above . The best time to ask for feedback is soon after someone has carefully evaluated your application . If you 've applied to a program and did n't get in , you have every right to ask why and how you could improve your application . It sounds like you think that the reason you did n't get in were your GRE scores : is that what you were told ? If so , given that you improved on the thing they told you to improve upon : that sounds good , you should probably reapply . Finally , if you already spoke to someone at the program , they told you to improve your GRE scores , and now you have , then it makes considerably more sense to me to continue that conversation with the person who told you to improve your scores : given that your GRE scores have improved so-and-so much , do they think you should reapply ? In that situation you have a better chance of being told something substantive , I think . 3 ) My program is relatively small ( we generally enroll no more than 15 students per year ) . In quality , the distance from the very top programs and from " less than serious " PhD programs are each rather large . Once in a while we " steal " a student from a top twenty program , and sometimes for various reasons we take chances on students with inferior backgrounds . So our admissions process really plays out a bit differently every year . I could imagine that a program which is significantly larger , better or worse than ours might have less variation . I suppose I would nevertheless be surpr
Yes , it is entirely appropriate , especially if you come to them in person and just knock on their office door when they 're around and ask if they can spare 5 minutes to answer a question or two . If you are nice , polite , curious and fun to talk to ( and you sound like all of those things to me ) they may easily end up talking to you for an hour . Busy or not , professors are people and love to procrastinate just like anyone else . :-) Email is a lot less likely to work , but again , I do n't see it as inappropriate , simply less effective . And do n't overthink it . Knocking on someone 's ( even a stranger 's ) office door is not the same as hugging them , and not every decision in life should be agonized over and analyzed in minute detail . Just try it , the worst that can happen is ... nothing .
You are correct , selecting an editor the authors have not met avoids perceived conflict of interest , which is a good thing . I think " editors were well known by my co-authors ( no shared projects ) " is also a good choice . It 's not always possible to eliminate all potential conflicts of interest . I would prioritize avoiding selecting an editor whom I had coauthored a paper with , since that is a very important form of professional relationship . Ultimately , assigning the manuscript to an appropriate editor should be the journal editor-in-chief 's responsibility , not the author 's .
You can do this : " ThesesAuthorA [ ref to their work ] anaylsed the works of Bob [ ref ] , Jane [ ref ] , and Alice [ ref ] using some_method and found that their_conclusion . However the evidence can also be interpreted to show your_conclusion . or this " ThesesAuthorA [ ref to their work ] states ' direct quote of the thesis ' in their analysis of Bob [ ref ] , Jane [ ref ] , and Alice [ ref ] . " Either way you need to make it obvious that the conclusions are drawn from someone else 's work , and that the references are only those required to support the points and arguments that you are making . As @ff524 said this is your theses for your research project , so you are going to have to find , evaluate , discuss and defend your sources .
I would say it depends . In the following <URL> , JeffE resoundingly stated that age does not play into the decision whether to appoint somebody for an academic position . Yet , ETH Zurich ( one of the world 's premiere institutions in the technical sciences ) even <URL> ( see the information box on the right ) . Pragmatically , you may be a bit out of the norm . This may give you a small edge in some cases , and may be a small disadvantage in others . For every academic that is concerned about your age , there will be another one that values your industrial experience . I would say , if age is the only thing holding you back , then go and apply for assistant professor positions . Leaving a job in a research lab to start as an associate professor would in a way seem like a starting all over again . Assistant professor is n't the same as associate professor . Both are not the same as " starting all over " . In practice , in most places I have seen , professors on all levels are able to work quite independently , so none should be seen as an entry-level job . Assistant professor may be entry-level in terms of professorships , but it is actually a quite senior position in the wider context of academia .
I think the real underlying cause is just what Anonymous Mathematician said , that having a double-spaced version of a paper is more convenient for going through and making notes on a printed copy . But it 's not just a phenomenon of the dark ages ; many people still do this today during the revision process when a paper is being prepared for submission . In fact , at least in physics ( my field ) , the tradition of double-spacing is perpetuated by the fact that at least <URL> defaults to a mode which sets the line spacing to double . It is possible to change this to single line spacing by passing a class option for the appropriate journal ( , , , etc. ) , but many authors forget to do this - and somewhat understandably , I think , because their job is to do research , not to be proficient with LaTeX . I would imagine that a similar situation might arise with LaTeX classes used by other publishers and in other fields . It 's worth noting that arXiv <URL> not submitting in double-spaced mode . But probably very few submitters have the patience to read through the instructions in their entirety .
I 'll tackle the easiest side of the question first : bringing nothing should not create trouble . If you are clearly expressing your thanks for the invitation , both in written before you arrive , and in person when you meet the guy , none should take offense . On the other hand , bringing a gift is fine too , but : It should be tasteful and suitable for any taste : no sake , no unusual ( by US standards ) food ... unless you know him well enough . It should not be terribly expensive : people like the attention , but they do n't actually care so much about the gift itself . Keep it simple , that way it can not be understood as a bribe . Not academia-related , but still useful to remember : make sure it passes customs ( I had my French gift confiscated from me once ) . I usually bring stuff to colleagues who host me when I travel to other places , if only because it gives a starting topic for smalltalk ( something which I 'm not very good at ) in a future occasion .
While I do n't really like adding answers to questions that have too many already , I also think it 's a little hard to cut through the arguing any other way . It 's not rude to ask for a letter of recommendation . Ever . ( I mean , if you do it rudely , then yes , but the bare fact of asking is n't ) . It might be unlikely to succeed , or unrealistic in some cases , but it 's not rude . You should try to ascertain whether this is a normal thing to do in your field . In my field ( mathematics ) , it borders on inconceivable that an undergrad would carry out and publish truly impressive work without an established researcher in the field supervising them and able to write a detailed letter about it . Maybe there are some other fields where that can be the case , though I ca n't say I know what they would be ( perhaps some of the other answerers are ) . Similarly , JeffE 's advice to try to create a dossier of the level that might be appropriate for a faculty position sounds completely preposterous to me , but I suppose it must not be in computer science . Whenever you ask someone for a letter of recommendation , think about what you are hoping the person will say , and whether they are placed well to say it . So , I would only consider asking for a person to write a letter based purely on having read my research if I knew they were familiar with it , and could place it in a context that is not obvious to the people reading the letter . It can be very valuable to have a letter saying essentially " this paper is actually really important . here is why . " I 've read such letters , I 've written such letters . But the paper has to be really important ( in the view of the author ) for such a letter to work . I suspect a lot of the argument here is based around whether the answerer really thinks this is an impressive publication or not ( which we are all guessing about ) . So , if I were you , I would ask some of your professors whether they really think this potential letter writer will be impressed by the publication . If they think maybe yes , then you can email her/him , and say : Dear Prof. X , I 'm a student at the University of Y and am applying to graduate schools in country Z ( or maybe be more specific ) in underwater basket weaving , with a focus on the use of hemp . Prof. W thought you might be interested in this publication of mine , since it relates to your work on macramae at the bottom of the Mariana Trench . I was wondering if you thought you could write a strong recommendation for me on the basis of this publication . Thank you very much for your time . Sincerely , Joe Schmoe Asking someone if they think they are able to write a strong letter for you is good way of leaving them an easy out , and not getting a terrible letter since someone finds it easier to write a terrible letter than to say no ( it happens ) . I would almost certainly reject such a request since I really would n't feel like I could write a strong letter . But if the publication really is that good , maybe someone will feel like they can .
It sounds to me like he is just making sure that you will have other options if it turns out the school wo n't admit you with an outside advisor . I do n't think there 's any harm at all in telling the truth . If he wants you as a student , the fact you have other options should n't make a big difference to how much he is willing to help you in the admissions process . In fact , sometimes having other options can even make you more desirable , as it indicates other people/schools think you are valuable too . ( In my case , having other offers allowed me to negotiate a slightly better package at my top choice grad school . ) If you 're worried that he will be less interested in helping you with your application if he knows you are also looking elsewhere , you could always say that you have applied to/been offered place ( s ) elsewhere , but that the opportunity to work with him remains your top choice . Regardless of how you reply to him , however ( and as I said , I do n't see any reason not to tell the truth ) , I would say that it 's always a good idea to apply to a range of schools . Hopefully you will get in to the school you want and be able to work with him , but if the school has indicated there might be a problem with this ( even if you and the professor think they are wrong ) , you may want to have other options .
end question
start question
Is a German Hochschule able to offer a Ph.D. . ?
I should warn that I am not an expert on this , but this is how I understand it . Basically , there are different types of " Hochshule " . There is the Universitt , which always has the right to offer Ph.D. 's . Then there are the Hochschule and Fachhochschule . The latter in general is more oriented to learning a trade ( as an electrical engineer , for example ) as opposed to more research focused . The Fachhocschule do n't have the Promotionsrecht , that is , that can not hand out Ph.D degrees . As for the Hochschule , there it depends . Some are on the same level as a Universitt . In that case , they can hand out Ph.D. degrees , otherwise not . Presumably the deciding factor is whether there is any substantial research component at the Hochschule or not . More information can be found here : <URL> . There you can also search if a specific Hochschule can grant PhD degrees or not .
Did you sign an agreement to transfer copyright to someone else ? Does your university policy ( <URL> ) or employment contract specify that someone else holds the copyright to your thesis ? If the answer to both questions is " no " then you , as the author of the thesis , hold the copyright . In the US , most university students retain the copyright for their thesis . Often they are required to grant the university and/or ProQuest a non-exclusive license to distribute the thesis , but without giving up copyright .
For interdisciplinary researchers , this sort of thing can happen fairly often . For example , if you are a chemist working on ecological applications , you might well have started out in a chemistry department and end up in an ecology department , or vice versa . This happens even more so when dealing with disciplines that may be categorized differently by different institutions : for example , is work on medical devices part of biology and the natural sciences faculty or part of electrical or mechanical engineering ? Generally , however , if it 's going to happen , there is at least some logical trail that you can see how the faculty member got from point A to point B.
Recently , I have had a very similar situation occur . The original paper discussed and explained the theoretical and practical aspects of a scientific technique that we adapted ; the second discussed and explained the programming automation of the technique . My advisor and co-author advised me at the time that each paper has got to be unique , taking the lead from the previous one and adding new information , techniques etc. . The journal that I published in are quite happy to take on a follow up article , just as long as it is sufficiently unique . So , in answer to your questions - it would most likely be a new paper for publication , make reference to the previous one , but place the emphasis on the new developments .
Keep it short and honest . For example , Dear So and So , thank you for your offer for a postdoc at Blah . It 's an attractive offer , but I 've decided to take a position at Foo-Bar instead . The work you 're doing over at Blah is very interesting and I look forward to interacting with you in the future . Of course if you have more than one rejection to send out PLEASE PLEASE do n't do it generically . Tailor it to each place individually . It takes a little more time , but it 's a fair exchange given that they took the time to give you an offer .
The rules for a German professor are quite different than for a typical German employee . The first thing to note is that you will be a Beamter , which is a very special class of government employees . In particular , you are automatically exempted from the public healthcare system , as well as having to make direct payments into the social security system out of your paycheck . Instead , the pension payments are covered by your employer ( the government of the Land in which you work ) , while the Beihilfe system helps to defray part of your insurance costs ( the rest of which you pay for through a private insurance contract ) . In other words : you get billed for your health care ; your private insurance reimburses you for 50 percent of your costs , and 30 percent of the costs for other family members . You submit the remainder of the bill to the university , which reimburses the remaining 50 percent ( 70 percent ) . The net result of this is that you get a much higher percentage of your income as take-home pay relative to a traditional government employee . Your tax status depends on your marital status , so as a W1 , you can expect to take home somewhere between 2800 and 3200 euros per month , as reported by the <URL> website . There are some differences due to cost of living in different states . However , expect to pay about 200 $ per month for health care , or more if you have a family . However , I should also note that just this week came down a new <URL> from the German Federal Constitutional Court stating that the salaries for professors hired since 2005 are too low , and need to be adjusted . This has the potential to adjust salaries upwards somewhat -- although it is not yet clear by how much . ( The state of Hesse , against whom the ruling was made , has until January to adjust its salaries upwards . ) To answer your other questions : There are no ranks between W1 and W2 . The base salary is nonnegotiable , as it 's set by the state government for which you will work ; however , you can negotiate some terms of your " package " ( support for students and other workers ) , and you may be able to get some " performance bonuses " negotiated into the contract . Teaching duties are set by federal law , and are similarly nonnegotiable ( although you can negotiate the ability , for instance , to teach in English rather than German ) Bonuses are not available for single people with no children ; instead , according to German law , they 're actually taxed at a higher rate . There is no difference in salary based on nationality .
It 's definitely OK to name one or a few journals you would consider more appropriate for this paper . Some web interfaces for reviewers even have that as a built-in option . One thing I encourage you to do is to use the journal 's publication criteria to back up your opinion . These may have been given to you along with the paper , or they can be found on the journal 's website . If , for example , the journal X 's guidelines say : Articles should be of high scientific quality , originality , significance , and conceptual novelty that are of interest to the wide and diverse contemporary readership of X then it 's good practice , in your recommendation to the editor , to evaluate the manuscript following these criteria . For example , you could say : The manuscript is technically and methodologically sound , and clearly written . The conclusions are , in large part ( minor exceptions noted below ) , supported by the results . However , it seems to me that this detailed study of knee injuries sustained in wingsuit accidents may not be of interest to many of the reader of The International Journal of Transportation Research .
If you are working at the company while you are applying to schools , then it should definitely be mentioned . However , if you are choosing between the placement offer and graduate school ( in other words , accepting the offer instead of graduate school ) , then I would leave it out . This is because this may give the appearance that you 're not really serious about applying to graduate schools , which may lessen your odds of getting an interview or an offer . If you feel it 's absolutely essential to mention it , you should do so in your cover letter ; however , for the most part , I would do so only if it became important for you to do so ( because there 's a deadline for accepting the offer , for instance ) .
I should warn that I am not an expert on this , but this is how I understand it . Basically , there are different types of " Hochshule " . There is the Universitt , which always has the right to offer Ph.D. 's . Then there are the Hochschule and Fachhochschule . The latter in general is more oriented to learning a trade ( as an electrical engineer , for example ) as opposed to more research focused . The Fachhocschule do n't have the Promotionsrecht , that is , that can not hand out Ph.D degrees . As for the Hochschule , there it depends . Some are on the same level as a Universitt . In that case , they can hand out Ph.D. degrees , otherwise not . Presumably the deciding factor is whether there is any substantial research component at the Hochschule or not . More information can be found here : <URL> . There you can also search if a specific Hochschule can grant PhD degrees or not .
As soon as you are sure , or April 15 , whichever is sooner . You have no ethical obligation to answer before the April 15 deadline , especially if you are waiting for an offer from another department . On the other hand , it would be nice to answer earlier if you can . So it would be nice of you to contact your current department 's admissions committee ( either directly or through your lab director ) , tell them that you have another admission offer but would prefer them , and ask if they 're likely to offer you admission . If they have n't decided , it would be nice of you tell them about your April 15 deadline and ask them when they expect to make up their mind . ( I 'm assuming that you prefer to stay in your current lab . If you 'd rather accept the pending offer , even if you got an offer from your current lab , then what are you waiting for ? If you 're not sure , then what more information do you need ? )
As @Jukka Suomela has indicated in the comments , yes , you will . The relevant policy for IEEE ( from <URL> ) is : 8 . Electronic Preprints . Before submitting an article to an IEEE publication , authors frequently post their manuscripts to their own web site , their employer 's site , or to another server that invites constructive comment from colleagues . Upon submission of an article to IEEE , an author is required to transfer copyright in the article to IEEE , and the author must update any previously posted version of the article with a prominently displayed IEEE copyright notice . Upon publication of an article by the IEEE , the author must replace any previously posted electronic versions of the article with either ( 1 ) the full citation to the IEEE work with a Digital Object Identifier ( DOI ) or link to the article abstract in IEEE Xplore , or ( 2 ) the accepted version only ( not the IEEE-published version ) , including the IEEE copyright notice and full citation , with a link to the final , published article in IEEE Xplore . For ACM , from <URL> : ( b ) Furthermore , notwithstanding the exclusive rights the Owner has granted to ACM pursuant to Paragraph 2 ( a ) , Owner shall have the right to do the following : [ ... ] ( v ) Prior to commencement of the ACM peer review process , post the version of the Work as submitted to ACM ( " Submitted Version " ) to non-peer reviewed servers ... This answer is current as of August , 2014 .
There is no problem in citing a conference paper in a PhD thesis . When selecting literature that you want to use in your scientific work , it is not uncommon to take the reputation of the hosting medium ( journal , conference , etc ) into account . The examiners of your thesis might question the quality of the work that you are citing when it origins from dubious sources . But that holds for dubious conferences , as well as for dubious journals . There are , however , many conferences with an excellent reputation . And there is no reason why you should not cite papers that have been published there . Furthermore , when you make use of a work ( paper or anything else ) that comes from a less established source , you are still obligated to refer to this work . After all , we want things to be verifiable in science . You might even cite a source that you are disagreeing with . Sometimes , an extended version of the conference paper is published as a journal paper , and then you may prefer to cite the journal paper instead .
This is a partial representation of the truth . On the one hand , departments are always looking to retain masters students as PhD students ; it 's better for the department ( better numbers ) , it 's better for the professors ( more research from PhD relative to masters ) , and it 's better for the university . On the other hand , simply looking at the numbers you 'll see that most masters students do not go on to become a PhD student <URL> . I think it 's safe to say that most students who go through masters programs enter with a goal in mind ( academia or industry ) and finish with that same goal in mind . I do n't know how it works in other countries , so I ca n't compare that . Also , regarding whether they put more emphasis on PhD preparation than in other countries , I do n't know how to quantify that .
Regretfully , I am declining your offer . Thank you very much for considering me for your program . Best regards , ThatGuy You do n't have to say where you 're going instead .
To write this in more detail , the text of the questions is clearly owned by the copyright holder . The ideas embodied in the questions are not protected by copyright . It 's usually considered plagiarism to completely rephrase and rewrite a question without citing the original source , but plagiarism generally is n't illegal . As noted in the downvoted answer , in some communities there is a broad acceptance of some kinds of copying when it comes to exercises , but I would n't want to endorse wholesale copying of homework exercises from one book to another . There are likely to be canonical problems that should be worked by every student in a particular discipline , and those would probably have the least claim to protection and the least interest in protection from the publisher . The more creativity going into the question , the more protection it has and the more enforcement you are likely to see . Writing good exercises is challenging , but you should endeavor to do so for your website . You should cite to sources when you adapt an exercise from somewhere , and you should mention that an exercise is a classical example that all students should be able to do when you draw on something that Gauss or Euler proved as an exercise centuries ago .
Tough to predict how it will be handled with certainty . You could list the scholarship but then say in your SoP something along these lines : " I 've earned in fact ( a prestigious ? ) scholarship from my home government which would allow me to ... however it comes with a requirement that ... which frankly I 'd prefer not to commit to . Thus I would much rather be admitted with financial support from the university , in which case I would turn down the government scholarship . " For highly ranked research universities , I 'd say it is not common for Ph.D. students to be self-funded . That said , if they can grab a strong student who is self-funded , what 's not to like ? :)
Here are some claims that I think you will agree are true : Anyone who attends a conference where all the talks are in English can understand spoken English reasonably well You do n't live in Germany and are considering attending . You are probably not the only person considering it Anyone willing to give a technical presentation in English can probably both understand and produce spoken English reasonably well I believe these add up to you being able to find people for " hallway conversations " in English pretty easily . You might have some lonely lunches if you find yourself at a table with people who all speak German and exclude you . I have this problem with people who all discuss ( in English ) something I do n't understand at all and do n't want to learn ( eg how to install Exchange on a server . ) I generally try to prevent this by striking up a conversation with a fellow attendee at the end of the session that is right before lunch , and suggesting we go to the lunch line together .
Very roughly , at the US universities I have worked for , the IP policies have been along these general lines : When you write a paper or book as part of your research , you get to keep the copyright and any royalties . But the university gets permission to use the work internally , keep a copy in the library , etc. . If , as part of your research , you invent something that 's patentable , contact the university 's IP office . They will help you with the patent process . You and the university will hold the patent together , or some similar arrangement . They have to agree on any licensing agreements , etc ( where you sell some company the rights to use your patent ) , and they get a large share ( perhaps half or so ) of whatever royalties or fees are earned . ( I 'm a pure mathematician , and we never invent anything patentable , so I always skim the patent part and may have got it wrong :-)
I am not aware of any absolute measure for this . However , you can have a general idea by : Some schools provide last year ( s ) statistics about their programs ( usually in the prospective student section ) . For example , program A has attracted X number of applications and Y applications were accepted . Also , some programs have a fix limit ( i.e. due to number of equipments available ) for number of applications to be accepted . Sometimes online admission results like the one in <URL> give you a sense on how strict the school is .
The first school wo n't like it , but there would be nothing to stop your brother from backing out of the first offer and accepting the second offer , unless the schools work closely together to prevent this from occurring , which seems highly unlikely , especially because their notification dates differ so greatly . If your brother is accepted to the second program , the most courteous way to inform the first program would be : as quickly as possible , so they can accept someone from their waiting list or otherwise make use of the information . without insulting the first program . For example , he might write something like : I realize that , as grateful as I am for admission into your program , pursuing it would not be the right thing for me to do at this time and that I should not have accepted your offer . I am very sorry that I have to withdraw my acceptance . I hope it is not too late for you to offer the place to a student who is a better fit for your program .
end question
start question
If you get stuck in research , at what point in time should you ask for help ?
I find that grad students always wait too long to ask for help , either out of fear of looking " stupid " , or out of inexperience , or out of a misplaced sense of stubbornness . If you 've spent a few weeks on something and you 're thoroughly stuck , then you should absolutely ask someone ( advisor , other students , anyone with knowledge ) . You 'd be surprised at how often you were merely barking up the wrong tree , or just did n't know a very important fact or reference , or just had to reformulate the question differently . All of this takes experience , and that 's what an advisor is supposed to provide .
I underwent an interview recently from a prospective adviser , and I found the questions he asked of me to be pretty insightful - hence I 'm sharing them here . Why do you want to pursue research in this specific area ? This would highlight the candidate 's motivation in wanting to do research in a particular field - and would also tell the professor more about the candidate 's exposure to this area . What made you apply to this lab/university , as a continuation of the previous question ? The answer would tell you whether the applicant had simply browsed the rankings list of universities , or did he/she actually go through the research publications of the lab - and the application was done due to an intersection of the two ! What would you like to be doing post Ph.D. ? There is no " right " answer to this , but it also tells a lot about the candidate 's motivation in pursuing a PhD . Finally , you can ask the candidate to discuss any problem that he is familiar with in that field - does n't have to be anything fancy/complicated , but that would serve to highlight the clarity of the applicant 's reasoning , communication skills , and level of exposure to the field .
Yes . When a degree is required prior to starting a program , that degree is needed in order to enrol , but not to apply .
I believe you should do what is better to the audience . In some disciplines/communities it is strongly assumed that conference participants read the abstracts/papers before the presentation , and expect the discussion to follow precisely the material that is published . In this case , of course , you could only comment briefly on the recent changes you 've made . In other fields ( such as mine ) , the abstracts are used only as a means to ( roughly ) describe the topic of the presentation . It is quite normal to extend the actual talk beyond the scope of the abstract , or reduce the role of some pieces of research advertised in the abstract . In this case , I 'd advise you to make a talk that is simply interesting for you and the audience . It can probably include both the original design and your contribution to its recent development . Make sure people in the room understand why the changes were needed , how you have worked them out , and what is the benefits of your new architecture .
I do n't think there are any " official rules " . ( I ca n't even find a clause in my employment contract that officially requires me to list my university on my papers . ) But as long as you are a student , it 's a good idea to list your university as an affiliation . Even if the university is n't paying you , you do benefit indirectly from the intellectual environment and resources that the university provides : professors , fellow students , library , internet , health insurance , nearby coffee shops , and so on . It costs you nothing to be generous . Also , for better or worse , <URL> .
You asked , Is this normal ? The answer is no , it 's not normal . If two people work on some research together , the " normal " thing is for them to write the paper on it together , and for both to be authors on the paper . It 's possible that you seriously overestimated your contribution to the work and do n't actually deserve authorship . Even in this case , it 's clear you were involved in the research and it 's not normal for your advisor to go ahead and publish it without discussing it with you first . ( When I publish work that involves students whose small contributions do not warrant authorship , I always discuss it with them first . I explain why I do n't think they can be an author , give them a chance to state any disagreement , and also tell them what additional work they could do in order to merit authorship . ) However , the latter ( your contributions did not merit authorship , and your advisor failed to discuss this with you ) is somewhat more forgivable than the former ( your contributions did merit authorship and your advisor published without you anyways ) . ( You do say your advisor is new , and probably inexperienced in advising . ) To answer What do I do ? You should talk to your advisor . This is the only way to really understand which case you are dealing with . You can bring this up in a non-combative way without upsetting your advisor ; for example , you can ask " What do I need to do in order to deserve authorship on future papers ? " This gives your advisor an opening to discuss why he thinks you did n't deserve authorship on the conference paper , and for you to respectfully state your perception of the situation . There may still be a chance for you to get some credit for this work , if you come to agree with his point of view that you did n't do enough to deserve authorship on the conference paper . For example , once you and your advisor have come to an agreement on what it takes to get authorship , you can propose that the two of you work together on an extended version of his conference paper for a journal - on which you will be an author :) Unfortunately , it 's also possible that after this conversation you believe you did deserve authorship , and that your advisor published your joint work without you for no valid reason ( i.e. , committed misconduct ) . In this case , the best advice I can give you is to start looking for another advisor . Finally , the lesson for the future is : talk to your collaborators about authorship early and often .
It is much easier to get a job in an top-notch industry research lab than an R1 professorship for one simple reason : there are vastly more such research lab jobs available . To illustrate this , let 's consider an illustrative example . The <URL> has 55 professors . To sustain a department of that size , they 'll probably be hiring 2-4 people per year , depending on what fraction fail to make tenure . Meanwhile , right next door is its cousin , <URL> , with about <URL> : most of those do n't have PhDs , but a lot of them do , and a quick search on their open job postings finds more than a dozen that are looking for a PhD-level candidate right now . That 's just one company , and one you 've probably never even heard of . There 's a lot more big ones out there , and far more than that if you start considering the smaller ones as well . Now , getting back into a professorship , that 's a different story . It most certainly can be done , if you maintain a good research presence . For most people , however , the trip to industry is a one-way trip , simply because you generally do n't have to publish . Many research companies like it when you publish , and many strongly encourage it -- but the fact that they have to encourage it should tell you that the incentives are just not there the same way . At a company , you are not measured primarily by your ability to publish , and so it tends to get triaged in favor of other things , like writing proposals , delivering demos to customers , or product development . There 's nothing against publishing , but there 's no " publish or perish " and so there 's a lot less publishing . Bottom line : you can move in either direction , but it 's a lot easier to move from university to industry than the reverse .
This is a partial representation of the truth . On the one hand , departments are always looking to retain masters students as PhD students ; it 's better for the department ( better numbers ) , it 's better for the professors ( more research from PhD relative to masters ) , and it 's better for the university . On the other hand , simply looking at the numbers you 'll see that most masters students do not go on to become a PhD student <URL> . I think it 's safe to say that most students who go through masters programs enter with a goal in mind ( academia or industry ) and finish with that same goal in mind . I do n't know how it works in other countries , so I ca n't compare that . Also , regarding whether they put more emphasis on PhD preparation than in other countries , I do n't know how to quantify that .
If I received a donor personally choosing to fund my education , I would include personal information in the thank you letter . The personal information I would include are things like " I grew up in ... I became interested in [ scientific field ] because ... " and I would include it in the first paragraph . The reason that I feel that including personal information is appropriate is because you were personally chosen for this funding source ( as opposed to applying to a scholarship committee , for example ) . Congrats !
Traditionally , affiliation address must be where the research has been conducted therein ( this is the statement given by some scholarly journals in Guide for Authors ) . Professors normally use their official affiliation for any publication/presentation even if their university has not supported that research . Probably , because their secured salaries let them to work on an external project . This is different for graduate students , but still can be applied . In any case , nothing stops you for using both affiliations in your poster . Normally , a graduate student is gaining credit from his/her affiliation . Then , two affiliations can be indicative of your research potential , as you have not stuck to your academic project .
How do you take the absent students names ? I do n't . If a student finds my lectures boring or useless , they should n't waste their time coming to class . ( As others point out , there are very good reasons to require attendance in laboratory - , studio - , and discussion-based classes . ) How do prepare your materials ? Coffee and LaTeX . Lots of coffee and LaTeX . How do you write a syllabus for students and do you hand them out ? When I started out , I modified the syllabus from the previous iteration of the course , which was taught by an experienced instructor , so I could be sure to include all the necessary details . I used to hand out the syllabus on the first day of class , but now I just post it on the well-advertised course web site . What computer programs do you use to plan your lessons ? I write everything in LaTeX ( specifically , TeXShop ) and distribute everything as PDF files on the course web site . ( See the first question . ) I also use SubEthaEdit to edit the course web pages themselves .
It does n't exactly " allow you to get a Ph.D quicker " . However , you would have more experience in academic writing than if you had n't contributed to the writing in the paper . Writing a paper is n't just " writing " a report - a lot of analysis , interpretation , and technical work goes into papers and these are skills you want to have as a Ph.D student . Being a co-author on a paper will make your application stand out . If you go into any job , you can list this as a project that you have worked on . If you are familiar with the contents of the paper , then you can talk about it as if it was another project that you 've worked on . Having your name on the paper is verifiable and can look pretty impressive especially if you are familiar with the details .
There are many ways to build PhD committee , which depend on the local system ( country , etc. ) and your field . But , here are some general principles that should apply broadly . You need to bring a mix of highly competent yet diverse evaluators , with not too much proximity to yourself or your advisor lest it be thought that you are cherry-picking a partial ( friendly ) jury for your work . Regarding your questions : Is it more important that your advisor already know your committee members or that you do I do n't think it 's a very important part of the decision-making . Certainly , you do n't want the advisor 's best friend ( or yours ! ) , that could make people think you 're scared of unbiased questioning . Is it better to get someone in your discipline or someone doing more related work Here 's one of the factors that play a very important part , for me , in picking committee members . First , all members need to be able to have a good understanding of your work . However , it is good that not all of them are precisely expert in particular field of expertise . It helps to have people from other ( related ) fields , because they will bring a different perspective , and give you the opportunity to highlight not only the very technical details of your work but also its significance for other fields . is the dissertation process supposed to be a chance for you to win people over to your side ? No . It 's good to bring people who do n't necessarily agree with you on everything , but you should also avoid as committee members anyone overly critical of your approach of things , unless you know them well and they can keep it under control and agree to disagree . Otherwise , you risk that person actually coming to your defense to win you over . I have seen defenses being " derailed " ( though all ended well ) by a committee member who was overly argumentative , and it was n't a nice experience for anybody involved .
There is a movement gathering strength lately to encourage publishing the code : <URL> Or , more vehement : <URL> The reasons outlied on the article are very reasonable . If you are expected to publish detailed derivations , experimental methods , and proofs of theorems , why would you be allowed to keep the code ? No one will accept a theorem if you claim : " the proof is too messy to show , but hey , here are three cases where it works " . I think the best way is to publish the code used as supplementary material , and include a link to the repository , so people can get the improved versions . If you are concerned about people using too bleeding edge versions , make releases , but leave the development public . This will also help you get bugfixes and contributions . Thank you for wanting to release your code . I really believe this attitude will help make research better . Edit : After some time , I have something to add . Most of the code in an application is there for " administrative purposes " : load and write data , massage , check conditions ... For publishing , that part can be as hackish as one needs it to be . The real " research " is usually in a small part . That is where one should dedicate one or two hours of adding a few comments and clearing the code . For the rest , a docstring in the functions or a paragraph explaining the aim , should be fine .
" Thanks for the opportunity " is almost always appropriate and welcome . As far as " apologetic " goes , I 'd think on why the goal was n't reached . Some research projects are known to be long shots before they 're begun and failure , while obviously not desired , is not an unforeseen outcome . Sometimes outside events beyond anyone 's control torpedo things . If this is the " flavor " of your situation , then I do n't necessarily think abject apologies are called for , though you can certainly commiserate with others involved on how things turned out . Sometimes research just does n't pan out , and good research supervisors understand that you ca n't hit if you do n't swing . On the other hand , when I 've been part of projects that failed in whole or part due to things I did or did n't do , I 've tried to make sure the supervisor involved knows that at least I learned from the experience and that I had an idea of how I would do things differently in similar circumstances should they arise . Really , this is a valuable response in either case . Especially , though , if you hope to have future research opportunities with this supervisor , I 'd make sure this is understood .
Learning is a life long activity . Graduating with a PhD is not a license to stop learning , it 's a license to ( eventually ) get paid to do research and learn more :)
Based on my experience , attending in conferences as the volunteers often makes you perform some pre-defined tasks , based on the considered role for you , tightly . As an instance , you might be recruited at the reception desk of the conference and most of your time will be dedicated to the registration-based stuffs and the related matters . Or seemingly , you would be engaged with the support team to make the conference atmosphere more convenient for the participants . So , you might conclude that most of your time would be dedicated to performing the tasks , as well as possible . But as most of the tasks might no fill all of your time at the conference , a good plan could be attending at the conference presentation sessions or conference lectures , are which within the scope of your interest . Of course , based on your chance and smartness , you may be able to grab some special opportunities . Here is my own experience : Once , I was at the service of the escort team at a conference and was responsible for accompanying the guest lectures of the conference to the hotels and conference hall , back and forth . Within the 3-day period of the conference , I did succeed to talk with one of the big GURUs of the control systems on the planet and culminated my raw ideas by his deserving assessments . So , just open your eyes and be on the edge of your seat to grab every sparkling opportunity . Good luck
Sometimes mistakes happen . Yes , it 's a pain to have to deal with this mistake now after the paper was accepted for publication , but it 's a good thing that you caught your mistake before the paper was published . Note : If you have coauthors , before doing anything , contact your coauthors and explain to them the changes you need to make . Do this before doing anything else . What should I do ? Should I send the errata to editor or copy editor ? As you mentioned that you are dealing with an IEEE journal , my response here is specific to the IEEE : Talk to the senior editor that you are working with currently . Tell them specifically the changes you want to make and that " the logic of the concluding remarks is still correct and the discrepancies only impact the affected numerical results and the specific conclusions drawn from them , " and that " the other numerical results are correct . " The senior editor will take it from there . Based on my past experience , you do not need to contact the editor-in-chief about this directly . Will it affect my paper 's value ? No , but I do n't really follow why you think correcting a mistake will affect your paper 's value . Correcting a mistake prior to publication is a good thing . Will it need to go through another review cycle ? This will depend on the steps taken by the senior editor .
Email exchanges need to end at some point . If the professor 's email is a simple receipt of correspondence , then I do n't think there 's a need to reply . However , if the professor has initiated a larger email then a reply is probably appropriate . See these examples : Thanks sent as a form of receipt : Student : Hi Professor Smith , I 've run the analyses you have suggested ( see attached ) , Cheers , Mike Then the professor replies : Pofessor Smith : Thanks for that In this case , I think there is no need for the student to reply " You 're welcome " . It would n't be a big problem , but it would be mildly distracting for the professor . Email exchanges need to end . The professor 's " thank you email " was already a confirmation email indicating receipt of your original message . Thanks sent by professor as part of a larger email initiated by the professor Imagine the professor sends you an email that provides detailed information that also includes a thank you . Professor Smith : Hi Mike , well done on your work in the lab the other day . You did a really good job of fixing that equipment . I really appreciate it . Cheers , Professor Smith In that case it might be appropriate for the student to reply : " you 're welcome " .
You may not have a choice . If I were A and you were to tell me you had an offer from another school , I would immediately ask the name of the school B. Your refusing to tell me B 's name may raise some red flags for me ( indicating a level of shiftiness about your candidacy that I may not have been aware of ) . I can not think of a good reason why you would n't tell me -- other than B is so far below my institution 's rank that it 'd be laughable ( aka , A = MIT and B = Poconos Community College ) . However , if B = CalTech and A = MIT , then I would very much make sure that we were processing your application with all due haste . With the new details that A = preferred for personal reasons but B = higher ranked , then certainly you can tell A that you have an offer from B . It would likely lead to increased interest in your candidacy if A is at least somewhere the same ballpark as B . That is , if A were Poconos Comm College and B were CalTech , then A may feel that there is no possibility of getting you and drop you even before an offer for being overqualified . You need to emphasize why you are so interested in A. Note that lying is a bad idea . If we phoned our colleague at CalTech and they had no idea who you were , you 'd be immediately dropped .
end question
start question
How important are informal enquiries ?
Although referring the concerned institution guidelines for application should be self-sufficient , it would n't be wrong to ask a professor of the related department for any clarifications . But just make sure you go refer the guidelines first before you send a request-for-clarifications email .
( 2 ) A department offers PhD studentships . After admission , students can choose their supervisors or the department will assign them to available professors . In this case , how the capacity of each faculty member is determined to accept PhD students from available students of the department ? This is generally the norm in US universities . How the capacity is set depends on various funding-related factors : Does the department support all incoming Ph.D students via fellowships ? Then there 's a budget associated with this . Does the department support all incoming students via fellowship or teaching assistant positions ? Then based on estimated enrollment of students in courses there 's a rough formula estimating number of TAs needed each year , and this factors in how many students are leaving . Does faculty funding support students ( either from Day 1 or eventually ) ? Then the department will solicit information from faculty on how many students they expect to support that year , and make calculations accordingly . All of these are estimates , and can go wrong . So departments usually need some kind of cushion when doing calculations to adjust for that . While departments might " assign " students to faculty when they enter , this is probably for administrative purposes so students do n't slip through the cracks and have someone they can approach early on . Typically students and advisors choose each other once the students arrive .
After the first review process , could the rebuttal totally change the reviewers ' minds Very likely no . The rebuttal letter is usually very short ( a few hundred words , typically ) in comparison to the actual paper , so it is unlikely that the few extra explanations will turn the reviewer around entirely . Also , what is true for most humans is also true for academics - once people have formed their opinion about something , it is hard to fundamentally change their mind . That is , if a reviewer hates a paper enough to vote for full reject in the first round , a few good explanations will not be enough to turn her/him around to accept . from accept to reject Not unless you write something really idiotic ( " I do n't understand the criticism that this paper is drawing . I am sure , Prof. Bigshot did not have to listen to such criticism when he originally published the same contribution . " ) . Also , if your paper is accepted , what is there to rebute ? or the other way around ? As jakebeal writes , the most likely case is that the rebuttal letters are used to differentiate between a number of borderline papers for a few remaining conference slots . In my ( limited ) experience in the matter , nobody will even really look at rebuttal letters for papers that are already clearly accepted or rejected .
Elaborating slightly on David Richerby 's answer : cite the paper with the authors in the same order that they appear in the original . Never reorder them for any reason . The simplest reason for this is that people will expect that your citation matches the original author ordering . If the original paper has authors in the order A , B , C , D , and you cite it with authors B , D , C , A , a reader is going to think you are talking about a different paper by the same people , in which B was listed as the first author . They will probably figure it out eventually , but confusion will occur in the meantime . For a deeper reason , there are two possible reasons why the authors wrote their names in the order A , B , C , D : They made a decision that A should be considered the " first author " , perhaps because A had the original idea or did most of the work . They made a decision to list their names alphabetically , so that nobody would be " first author " . This implies that they believe that all of them contributed ( approximately ) equally to the paper . In either case , you should respect their decision . If you change the author ordering , it makes it seem like you are second-guessing their decision , as if you know better than the authors who did what on the paper . This will come across as arrogant and disrespectful . You ca n't assume that the person who presented a paper at a conference is the one who did the most work on it . Maybe A did the most work but could n't attend the conference for some reason . Maybe they all did the same amount of work , but B really wanted to give the talk and so they agreed to let him . You also should n't assume that the professor of a workgroup is the one who deserves the most credit for a paper . In many cases , the most senior person on a paper is the one who is least involved in its details ( because they are dividing their time between many different projects ) . So if the paper lists the authors as A , B , C , D , cite it as ABCD . Some people think the use of et al is problematic , especially for alphabetically ordered papers , but if you must use it , cite as " A et al. "
Having a rubric will make your own work grading fairly simpler , in particular if what you are grading are reports/essays . It breaks down your mental process of coming up with a grade . For example , if you do n't have a rubrik , you may have to think about whether as a whole the report should be worth 70 or 75 points . There are many dimensions involved , and you will find that you are juggling too many balls when trying to assess how 3 or 4 reports compare to each other . It 's easier if you only have to assess them on one dimension , e.g. , spelling/grammar , use of examples , clarity of exposition , correctness of formulas used , adequacy of citations . You would then assign a grade for each report for each of the categories in your rubrik , and the task of computing an overall grade is only one of adding up the points . A rubrik will also make your life easier when students ( as they always do ) come to your office hours and ask why they got this grade and not that . If you grade based on a holistic view , it 's often difficult to articulate how you arrived at a particular grade . It 's easier if you can break the grading down for the student into individual categories . You make your argument why you gave the student a 70 instead of a 75 a lot easier if you can explain why they only got a 10 out of 20 in grammar , etc. .
An industrial case study is when you take your solutions or your processes , apply it to some situation in industry , and then report on the results . You might use the <URL> if what you propose can be appropriately investigated using a qualitative case study . This is appropriate if you 're in management sciences , human-computer interaction , and software engineering ( which is what the Damian paper referenced above is about ) . Note that industrial case studies of this type are VERY difficult to do and take an extremely long time to write up and report on , so I actually doubt the conference is looking for this kind of case study . Alternatively , in the field of Knowledge Discovery of Databases , an industrial case study may simply be applying your algorithm to a database that is used in industry to discover something novel or meaningful . This is more common for analytical fields in general and simply requires you to acquire a database or some other data source that was generated through industrial activity . The reason for " industrial case studies " is because a lot of people create methods and techniques and test it only with " fake laboratory data " that they happen to create or acquire . This fake laboratory data does n't reflect very accurately the real world and people want to see that techniques in fact work on , affect and influence the real world .
Consulting the <URL> reveals that one of their conferences , CATA , is ranked C. I did not check any others . Indicators that the conferences are not good include : The conference is extremely broad . CATA covers topics including Algorithms , Programming Languages , and Multimedia . The conference is in an exotic location ( e.g. Hawaii ) . People involved in the conference are not the leaders in their field . Conference is not well established . Conference does not appear in the Conference Ranking list , even though it has been around for a long time . Note that conferences satisfying some or all of these criteria are not necessarily poorly ranked .
I am assuming the two choices are at the same institution . If they are not , choose the higher-ranked institution ( if there is a clear winner ) , because moving forward , name DOES matter ) . That said : You have two currently incompatible , yet not mutually-exclusive motivations : a ) work with someone who is well known in the field b ) work with someone who has closely aligned research interests and , you are concerned about the letter of recommendation , to come later . the correct choice is B . You should work with the faculty member whose research interests closely match yours . Any other decision is to enter into a failing marriage . It is important that you can be excited about what you are doing , and your excitement will in turn excite your mentor , which will pay dividends . THAT SAID , names do matter . If the faculty that matches your interests is junior , you will have to plan ahead to ensure that in addition to his/her glowing recommendation , you also get a letter from the more senior colleague . This is n't impossible , or even difficult . If you are starting grad school , just be open and honest about it . Engage him/her . Go to their lab meetings . Later , when you do your prelim or comp exams , you can invite that person to be on your committee . You 'll get both of best worlds : an advisor that shares your passion and a letter from a big wig . You have to love what you 're doing .
At every level of education , the purpose of office hours is to give students an open-ended opportunity to discuss the material that they are learning with their instructors , and particularly to get help and clarification in their understanding . As an instructor , I found it greatly frustrating when students ( or any level ) reduce this opportunity into simply asking for help on homework questions . I believe there are many other instructors who feel the same . In fact , I felt so strongly about this that I personally had a policy of refusing to help with homework questions per se , and would instead offer to work a related but different problem in order to try to get the student to learn the material rather than just solve the problem . I find this attitude most widespread amongst undergraduates , but many graduate students have it to . Hopefully , you are actually interested in the material that you are learning , rather than just your grade . That attitude , then , can easily translate into requests for help that are about the material , rather than the problems . For example , consider : " Can you help me with problem 5 ? " vs. " Problem 5 made me realize I do n't really understand Urysohn 's Lemma . Can you help me understand that better ? " Whether graduate or undergraduate , if you ask questions of the second sort , any good instructor who cares about their students ' learning is likely to appreciate it .
Should one trust that citations are claiming what is in the articles they cite ? No . <URL> If there is n't anyone who has disagreed yet , should I assume it 's true for the purpose of discussions , without further examination ? There is a wide range of possible levels of trust between something I read in a blog post and something on the level that " the square root of 2 is irrational " . I 'd put a random peer-reviewed article somewhere between the two extremes , depending on the discipline , the journal , the state of the art and so forth . " Without further examination " should not be part of a scientist 's vocabulary . Except maybe for the square root of 2 . Should public policy be based on it , without further examination ? No . In particularly not if the article reports on experimental findings in psychology , economics , sociology , medicine and so forth . <URL> These disciplines always need replications and meta analyses , because they can not perform experiments as tightly controlled as , say , in physics . Should I trust data to have been collected correctly ? I do my best , but I would n't trust myself 100 % to have collected my data correctly for published work . Stuff always happens . In addition , peer review does n't really enter into this question . Peer reviewers can not easily assess your data collection - only your description of it . You could have made horrendous errors in good faith , and the reviewer would n't know . Should I trust data to have been processed correctly ? See above . Would you trust software to be bug-free ? You should n't . And again , reviewers do n't review your data analysis as such - usually , your analysis scripts are not part of the bundle you submit . Bottom line : peer review will increase my level of trust in an article , but not infinitely . In addition , like a good Bayesian , I trust more surprising ( which have a better chance of appearing in the more prestigious journals ) findings less . Therefore , I usually expect articles in Nature and Science to be less easily replicable than less " sexy " findings published in other venues .
I looked at your other questions , which were quite enlightening . Given that you had already publicly revealed other relevant facts about yourself , e.g. <URL> , I do n't know why you did n't include them in your question . Any such details are highly pertinent , and would help people give better and more " customized " answers . To summarize from your previous question , you are 32 , live in Bangladesh , have an IT background , work in a bank , and are afraid your job is taking you nowhere . I 'm Indian , and left India to study in both the UK and the US , at different times . So my background is not so dissimilar , and I can relate to some extent . However , the fact remains that your question is so broad that it is difficult to give useful information without knowing you . Given that you are from Bangladesh , I 'm guessing that part of your interest in further studies abroad is to get away from Bangladesh . Also , there are presumably not that many routes out of Bangladesh besides being a student . If so , I sympathize . However , from your previous question it sounds like you were planning to get a degree locally before going abroad . If so , it sounds like your question might be premature . If you are n't currently associated with a university or already have a relevant higher degree , then going abroad as a student would be very difficult . Are you still planning to enroll in a local Master 's program ? Or have you decided to go for a Master 's degree abroad ? The answer by shane , I think , covers some of the issues you will probably run into as an Asian student in the West . How good or bad a situation you find it depends on a complex set of factors including : Your area of study Your university and location The local community from your area/country . ( Assuming you get on well with people from your background ) How successful you are at your subject What kind of advisor you end up with How much you dislike your native country . If you really dislike it , you may have an easier time adjusting to a foreign culture . If you happen to be from a very " sheltered " background , which is not uncommon in traditional Asian cultures , then living away from your family and culture could be good for you . In many ways the West ( which it seems you are contemplating ) is much more open culturally then a place like Bangladesh . However , how you respond will be up to you . You may find it frightening rather than empowering . In my case , I was from a sheltered background , and had a difficult time . Grad education is a rough business , and study abroad is not for the faint-hearted . However , I can say that I do not regret it at all . It was ( I think ) very good for me . I learned to be much more confident and independent . I am now quite a different person than the person I would have been if I never left India . Having said that , as shane says , grad school is n't the ideal way to go about self-improvement , if you have a choice . Of course , as I have observed above , you may not have a choice .
Some resources on writing mathematics , which I assume will be useful in mathematical physics , are : Donald E. Knuth , Tracy L. Larrabee , and Paul M. Roberts , Mathematical Writing , ( Washington , D.C. : Mathematical Association of America , 1989 ) , ii +115 pp . ISBN 0-88385-063-X . [ You can download this ( minus illustrations ) from Knuth 's website : <URL> ] P.R. Halmos , " How to write mathematics " . Enseignement Math . ( 2 ) 161970123 -- 152 . [ There are copies of this floating around online ; I 'm not linking because I 'm not sure of their copyright status . ] However , in my own experience , guides like these are useful because they point out ( 1 ) a lot of things to avoid , and ( 2 ) a relatively small number of useful tips and tricks . Developing a good writing style is best accomplished by reading as much good writing as you can ( including both scientific and other scholarly writing ) , writing as best you can , and seeking as much good feedback on your work as you can . See also Jean-Pierre Serre 's lecture " <URL> " , which is informative , funny , and ( since his examples are taken from experience ) tragic . Look out for the instance he highlights of " without " being abbreviated to " with . "
If your paper is on " real-world implementations of Bluetooth LE " then mailing lists on implementations of Bluetooth LE and manufacturers ' documentation of Bluetooth LE products are your <URL> . This is akin to e.g. , a historian using Napoleon 's informal personal correspondence as a source for information on his world . Of course , you should consider where these sources come from in how you use them . If you read on a mailing list or forum , Bluetooth LE is the worst thing ever . Mine never works ! you would not use it as a factual source to conclude that Bluetooth LE is terrible . You certainly could use it as a source to indicate that some users have experienced frustration with early implementations of Bluetooth LE . ( I cite bug tickets often in my own papers . ) Bad use of informal source : Bluetooth LE is not a good technology [ 1 ] . [ 1 ] " Let 's all complain about Bluetooth LE here , " Bluetooth User Forum , posted April 1 2104 , http : / bluetoothforum/lets-complain , retrieved April 25 2014 . Good use of informal source as a primary source : Bluetooth LE users have expressed frustration with the technology [ 1 ] . [ 1 ] " Let 's all complain about Bluetooth LE here , " Bluetooth User Forum , posted April 1 2104 , http : / bluetoothforum/lets-complain , retrieved April 25 2014 .
I do n't know what the purpose of your writing is , so the answer really depends on that . It sounds like you 're writing some kind of review of prior work ( either as a survey or as part of a paper ) ? In that case , the goal here is not to regurgitate ( in your words or via paraphrase ) what others say . Rather , you should be reading what they say and thinking about it ( and seeing if you 're convinced by it ) . Only after that should you even attempt to describe the work . And when you do so , put all reference material away . If you ca n't describe someone else 's work without referring to it , then you do n't really understand it yet . In this way you 'll ensure that you use your own ideas/thoughts to express what 's gone before .
There was over 80 for the position I applied for a few years ago , at a Dutch neuroscience institute with a good reputation . I imagine there would be more at world famous universities in the US . I hear that most of the time , most applicants are n't that good , even the top 10 % who make it to the interview . In my case the best candidate got the position , and the one ranked second ( me ) got an offer for a position later on ... so in the end it was one out of 40 .
In evaluating tenure track candidates in mathematics , everyone is paying very close attention to the year of the PhD . This is because you are hiring candidates not primarily based on their current position but on their perceived trajectory : you want to hire the gal or guy who will be a research star five or ten years down the line . ( At Harvard , Princeton and a few other places , they want to hire the person who 's a research superduperstar right now . But they would only hire someone young if they truly thought that their present accomplishments were tops on a worldwide scale . Anyway , this is quite an exceptional case ... ) Beyond that , it 's all arguable , and the arguments have a strange way of favoring the candidate in one 's field , who one knows / wants to work with anyway ... In all seriousness , it 's really not clear . When I evaluate tenure-track candidates I look at their productivity both in an absolute sense -- i.e. , total output -- and in a relative sense -- i.e. , rate of production . The person who is two years out and has eight papers of course looks better to me than the person who is four years out and has eight papers . They also look better to me than the person who is four years out and has ten papers ( assuming that the papers and the fields are comparable , which they may not be ) . But the person who is two years out , has three papers , two of which are amazing and joint with their PhD advisor and the other one is really strong too but seems roughly similar ? Ideally you 'd like to see a few more data points , but if you really think you could grab them right now ... At a certain point it becomes openly game-theoretic . One thing I 'll say is that a greater percentage of top candidates are slightly older than the " standard efficient route " would predict . A lot of people get their PhD in math in their late 20 's , and if you 're especially sharp , went to the right places , and did n't mess around you could certainly get your PhD by 25 or so . You might think that the belles of the ball are the candidates who got their PhDs at 25 . And some of them are , but for each of those there are a couple more who are really strong but somehow managed to get their PhD past the age of 30 , either by transferring from a foreign country , doing military service , or simply spending six-seven years in grad school ( and writing a very strong thesis ) . Moreover , there are a very small number of postdoc ( often called " X Assistant Professor " ) positions at very prestigious places that last for longer than three years . If you can spend more than three years in one top postdoc , then you have received the advantage of an essentially ideal environment for maximizing your research productivity , and thus it should not be too surprising that a lot of these people go on to very good jobs . But if instead of spending five years in one postdoc you spend five years in three postdocs , that 's much less auspicious : though there are exceptions , most people can only spin the wheel so many times before they cash out with whatever they can get ( and we hirers know that , having in many cases been there ) .
When I look at an application there are four aspects that count : grades cover letter earlier written work ( BS/MS thesis ) Recommendation letters Out of these , I focus most of my attention on the latter two : if the thesis is well-written , has received a good grade , and the letters of recommendation support the candidate in terms of ability to do research ( from reading up on the field to writing everything up ) and independence ( how much ( or little ) support the candidate needed . The cover letter would not make the application , but could break it if it is unfocussed and does not show any skills in expressing the interest in a structured way while avoiding irrelevant information . The grades would , in most cases , be the least interesting since they primarily show one 's ability to read and understand , not necessarily reasoning and deduction . The exception is the grade for the thesis . So , to answer the question , I am not sure which might be more important but anything that supports your ability to do research is of prime interest to anyone evaluating an application . EDIT : To follow up on Gerrit 's suggestion , my personal ranking list would be ( in falling order ) : Earlier written work Recommendation letters Cover letter Grades ( although the grade on the written work is included in 1 ) But , all parts are useful and in the end some mix of all will be used . I would also add that 1 and 2 will " make " the application while 3 and 4 will mainly help to " break " the application .
I just participated in a NASA grant-writing workshop . This question came up there , too . The following rules apply for both NASA grants and for NSF grants . ( I 'm sure there are differences , but at least what I 'm writing is the same for both . ) Can the grant be transferred from one institution to another ? Yes . Check out <URL> which describes NSF 's grant policy : Contracting or Transferring the Project Effort ( Subawards ) a. Excluding the procurement of items such as commercially available supplies , materials , equipment or general support services allowable under the grant , no significant part of the research or substantive effort under an NSF grant may be contracted or otherwise transferred to another organization without prior NSF authorization . The intent to enter into such arrangements should be disclosed in the proposal submission . b . If it becomes necessary to contract or otherwise transfer a significant part of the research or substantive effort after a grant has been made , the grantee shall submit , at a minimum : ( i ) a clear description of the work to be performed ; ( ii ) the basis for selection of the subawardee ( except for collaborative/joint arrangements5 ) ; and ( iii ) a separate budget for each subaward . The request must be submitted electronically , and NSF authorization will be indicated by an amendment to the grant signed by the Grants and Agreements Officer . The NSF grant conditions will identify which articles flow-down to subawardees . c. Procurements under NSF grants are also subject to AAG Chapter V.C and OMB Circular A-110 Sections .41 through .48 . ( 2 CFR  215.41-48 ) The grant is awarded to your institution , not to you . Because of this , your institution would choose to do one of the following : Nominate somebody ( e.g. a Co-I ) to take over when you leave Terminate the grant outright Initiate the grant transfer process ( if certain criteria are met , and both institutions agree ... ) According to the NASA VIP leading the workshop , transfers between US institutions happen , though they are rare . Either way , if you plan to do this , you should contact all involved parties : your current institution , the destination institution , and your program officer/manager ( your designated NSF/NASA contact person ) for the grant . Can it be transferred to an international institution ? No . As indicated in 3.c above , <URL> indicates that funds can be sent under the following condition ( among others ) : ( i ) grantee is not an individual or a foreign institution ; Since both NASA and the NSF are government organizations , they are prohibited from funding foreign institutions . There are additional rules for certain countries , at least for NASA : if applying for a NASA grant , you ca n't have any affiliations with a Chinese institution via the <URL> .
The question is not answerable at this level of abstraction , because grad school admission is not decided on the basis of easily described rules . If you 're a coauthor on a brilliant and important paper , you may still be rejected if the committee doubts you were a major contributor to the paper . On the other hand , some applicants with no publications at all may be accepted . As a general rule , nobody on the committee will read the paper itself . That would be both time-consuming and unlikely to be fruitful , since the committee probably does n't even have an expert in this specific area . They may get a little information from the abstract or your personal statement , but everything else they know about the paper will come from your letters of recommendation . The letters need to indicate why this paper should help your case for admission . Specifically , they need to explain why the paper is interesting , what you contributed to it if you are not the only author , and why your work was impressive . This task will be easier if the paper is really good , and that 's correlated with being published in a top journal , but this is not really necessary . For example , if an undergraduate makes a major contribution to a solid but not exceptional research paper , then that could mean a lot , even if the paper does n't get accepted to a leading journal . Of course the paper needs to meet at least some standards - publishing in a junk journal or vanity press does n't count . However , the most important issue is demonstrating that you can carry out good research , not getting your name in a prestigious venue .
Although referring the concerned institution guidelines for application should be self-sufficient , it would n't be wrong to ask a professor of the related department for any clarifications . But just make sure you go refer the guidelines first before you send a request-for-clarifications email .
end question
start question
Is it okay to suggest a Professor Emeritus as a mentor when applying for US mathematics postdocs ?
Here is roughly the way it works in my department , and I imagine this is fairly typical for math research departments in the US . People apply for postdocs . The faculty review applications . Faculty who are interested in certain candidates push for them . Some committee and/or the chair decides on a ranking of the candidates individual professors are excited about . Offers are made . For 4 , typically getting a postdoc for an emeritus professor will have very low priority , and unless the emeritus prof is active , they probably would n't push for you anyway . I believe that emeriti typically do n't even have permission to look at applications . However , I think it 's a little weird that they require you to name one faculty with common interests . I do n't remember ever seeing this when I applied . ( Is it exactly one ? If not , you could mention regular and emeritus faculty . If so , maybe that is to assign that faculty member to review your application . ) My suggestion ( say if you can only name exactly one ) is to choose a regular ( non-retired ) faculty member , but possibly mention the emeritus professor in your cover letter . If you think the emeritus professor is still active and would be interested in having you there , maybe send them an email to let them know you applied . Then they might discuss your application with other faculty .
Your approach to asking -- " this is what I have tried , I am stuck here ... can you point out how I can continue ? " -- is the right one . Without knowing how difficult of a problem you have gotten stuck on , and how often you ask for help , it is very hard for us to judge how your advisor will interpret your request . That said , in general I very much appreciate it when my graduate students and postdocs let me know when they get stuck on some step of a research project . My students and I are collaborators after all , and if I can help them get going again , or alternatively if I can recognize that we 've been heading down a dead-end , this is very much to everyone 's benefit . Of course , they should not be coming to me with trivial problems : " I ca n't get this expression to format properly in LaTeX " or " I do n't know how to compute the Jacobian matrix for this function " , nor would I want to get these requests on a daily basis . But if a competent student has made a serious effort to solve a problem and is still stuck , I 'd like to know about it and to help if at all possible .
Having only a MSc ( and not doing a PhD ) it might be hard to get an official research funding ( although , there are many different programs and maybe there is one for someone with your status ; especially if in some way you are still affiliated with an university of institute ) . Sadly , ( as Paul Hiemstra pointed out ) there no such thing as a scientific freelancer . Science market is very far from an unregulated , free market ( and the supply is higher than demands , so it is not a place for freelancer jobs ) . However , there are two options which may make sense to you : doing a part-time PhD , or some PhD where you are not expected to be at the univ. all the time ; effectively , it may work for you ( though , then it will need to be rather at a low-rank univ. ; most likely the most important thing is to find a univ. with no to low teaching load + an advisor who does not care ( sic ! ) or one who understands your situation and is willing to participate in such relationship ) , considering crowdfunding - i.e. describing you project on a website and gathering from all interested people ( like on <URL> ) ; here is <URL> ( then it is not from government ) .
Authors usually do n't and can not sell directly copies of their books , and the price is decided by the publisher . Of course , an author has their draft copy in electronic format , but they might not even have the final electronic version as published . Authors typically receive a few courtesy copies of their books , but they have no access to other copies for free . My suggestion however is to borrow the book from your university library : that 's what library are for , after all . If the library does n't have a copy , depending on your position , you can : Suggest the library to buy a copy . Many university libraries buy books according to the suggestions of their faculties : if you can not do this directly , probably your adviser can . Ask your library if they can loan it from another library . In many countries there is a system of interlibrary loans , and sometimes it works even across different countries .
I 'm going to disagree with Oswald . In my experience , undergraduate students do not often prove new things in pure math . I would n't even say master 's theses often contain new results . There are a few main reasons for this . Firstly , pure mathematics operates at a level that is not very accessible for most undergraduates , even those doing research . Undergraduates doing research are often well out of their depth and holding on for dear life . This can mostly be attributed to just not having enough time to get up to speed with what is considered modern mathematics . Most courses in mathematics at the undergraduate level are about math from 50-100 years ago ( if not older ) . Secondly , undergraduates do not often have the mathematical experience to know what the right plan of attack is when faced with an abstract and new problem and they may not know how to check their work thoroughly to make sure there are no major oversights or blunders . A lot of mathematics involves lateral thinking and it takes a lot of time to build those connections . The hardest part of a pure math PhD ( in my opinion ) is learning how to attack a problem no one has considered before . Standard techniques that others used may not be useful at all to you for one reason or another . An undergraduate wo n't have the creativity to navigate this kind of issue because the kind of creativity that is needed comes with a lot of experience . Even when an undergraduate student thinks they 've proved something , the nuances of their argument likely will not be apparent to them . ( This is especially true when it comes to functional analytic/measure theoretic arguments - the devil is in the details . ) Thus a proposed proof may not even be close to being right . Lastly , not many undergraduates in pure math do research because the gap they have to overcome between coursework and modern mathematics is pretty substantial . Those that make contributions in pure math are those that are very , very talented and have very thorough backgrounds ( backgrounds that rival master 's / PhD students ) . Undergraduates in pure math are not expected to make contributions . That is not what research is about for them . Introducing an undergraduate to research serves a couple of different purposes : it introduces them to more advanced topics and it gives them a taste of what research is like so that they can make an informed decision about whether or not graduate school is right for them . As such , the theses are more like surveys of a specialized topic in mathematics . There is a lot of independent learning involved and there may be some unique examples , insights , and connections contained therein . They may not be presenting " original " work , but poster sessions are there to present what they 've learned regardless of whether or not it was original . So yes , it is kind of like a lecture . They are undergraduates and far from being experts in their field . Note that I am not saying that no undergraduate ever produces new results in pure math ( there are some high school students that are better than most PhDs ) , but it is not a common occurrence and is not expected or considered the norm .
There 's not enough information to say for sure , but one possibility is that they know the deadline is n't strict because they 've seen what happens from the inside . When submitting a letter to another university , it 's hard to know how harmful a delay might be , but your recommenders may know that in your department nobody even plans to look at the letters until the end of next week . ( It 's not uncommon to schedule a buffer period between the deadline and the beginning of organized review , precisely to give late letters a chance to arrive . ) Or they may trust that their colleagues on the admissions committee will forgive them for being late .
I do n't have experience with philosophy , but I ca n't imagine this part of admissions is too different . It 's pretty common for students to have one or more letters from faculty they have n't had classes with in the past year , so no that 's not a problem . ( In fact , sometimes it happens with all the letters , if the student takes time off -- e.g. , see : <URL> ) What 's important is that each letter writer should have something meaningful to say about your preparation , talent , attitude , performance , work ethic , etc. . Also , depending on the circumstances , it may be very natural for you to continue to have plenty of interactions with this professor over the next year or so whether or not you take another class with her . That said , you should get letters from some people you 've taken in your 4th-5th year ( particularly master 's classes if possible ) . The main reason for this is you want recommendations which can discuss your performance in more advanced classes , which is presumably what you 'll be taking .
This does not sound unusual to me . Just ask yourself , is there a possibility that the reader would need this ? I have seen theses and dissertations with no appendices and some with over 50 pages of appendices . In my field , these are often filled with user study materials , source code , or raw data which can easily eat up many pages . I do n't see any harm done with being conservative and including everything . In this case , I have seen people list two versions of their thesis online , one with and one without the appendices .
I suppose you could include ' lab teaching assistant ' , but a research assistant would be of a better significance to include in an academic CV . If you do have other occupation to add over the years , you might not need add this one .
Being editor of a journal where authors can provide preferred and non-preferred reviewers , I can provide some " inside " thoughts on the subject based on what has happened in " my " journal . Note that it is possible to suggest names for review but also provide names which are not preferred . The latter can be because of a scientific disagreement , personal issues or whatever . Such suggestions appear but not often and we usually follow the suggestions ( not that we have to ! ) . When it comes to the preferred or suggested reviewers , I have been tempted to use such reviewers on occasion when it has been hard to identify reviewers directly . Sometimes because the topic is local and where it would make sense to have local input . In these cases , I can not remember a single reasonable review that has come out of such reviewers . This can be for several reasons but most often the review is a close colleague who might have an incentive to help the author . In some cases the preferred names have been very senior scientists who , I am afraid , has lost touch with the subject and provide poor and in some cases almost non-existent reviews . Out of all immediate " Accept " review recommendations I get , the vast majority have come from these reviewers . So , I not longer trust these names and avoid them at all costs unless I personally know or know of the reviewer and his or her good reputation . In addition to what I just describe , I also must state that it is often the weakest manuscripts that have listed several suggestions . This can be identified by the disparate review results , sometimes one accept ( by the suggested reviewer ) and one reject . Now , in principle , there is nothing wrong with suggesting reviewers , I have done so myself when being requested . I have then as a principle gone for established and well renowned names in the community . The problem lies in suggesting names for a purpose other than to get a fair and objective review . It is clear that the system can and is abused and since I became Editor-in-Chief , I have come to rely less and less on these suggestions and now mostly look upon them with suspicion and make selections from my own understanding of the field and investigations into the subject literature . The best suggestion , I can provide is to not avoid mentioning names but pick names that in your opinion can provide good constructive critique on your work ( and not just favorable ) . A note on why you have selected names as preferred or non-preferred would greatly help as well since it puts your choice in a perspective .
No . Since there is no universal standard for what constitutes a " credit hour " , imposing a required number of credit hours is simply impossible . If you have a degree , you have a degree . On the other hand , which courses you 've taken definitely does matter . For example : If you 're applying for graduate school in computer science at X , but your classes have small overlap with the undergraduate computer science program at X , that raises a red flag . That gap makes your undergraduate program look weak , or at least that it develops a different set of skills than the grad program at X normally expects . If you claim in your application that you 're interested in ( say ) artificial intelligence , but you 've never taken an artificial intelligence class , that raises a red flag . How an you claim interest in a field you 've never been seriously exposed to ? How can we judge your abilities in a field where we ca n't see a single grade ? Of course , all this is secondary to your potential for research excellence , as described in specific and credible detail in your statement and in your recommendation letters . ( I 'm on the graduate admissions committee in a US CS department . )
As editor in chief of an international journal I often come across these problems . There are several ways forward ( in no particular order ) : Does the journal publisher offer links to services to improve the language ? Cite those to the author . You can start correcting the English for about a page or two and then state that the authors must seek the help of a native English speaking person ( I have found that this is unfortunately not always a sure way to success ) . By high-lighting the level of problems , it is harder to ignore by anybody . It is after all the author 's responsibility and most journals state this very clearly . Remember that the editor is also part of the publishing procedure and you may express your thoughts to him/her to get assistance in your requests . If the problems are less severe and you think the paper is very deserving , do the work . But do n't make it a habit . If the first author has an identifiable native English speaking person as a co-author there is no real excuse and you should point that out to the editor . The suggestion of providing references may seem like a good one but make these suggestions to the editor . I really do not think such books will be of much use other than in the long term for authors who have problem grasping the English language ; and in some cases never .
This is an interesting question -- and yet when you think about it , it 's horrifying that we 'd have to consider even for an instant the propriety and legality of keeping our own annotated research materials . But , to provide a proper answer : In principle , this may depend on the terms of the license under which you downloaded these papers . In practice , you are very likely to be in the right , both legally and morally . In general , I believe that the licenses allow you to reproduce ( i.e. , print or save ) the document for research purposes -- without specifying a time limit or maximum duration of their subsequent use . See e.g. <URL> . If you are asking about the ethical/moral propriety of what you are doing , you are clearly in the right to retain your collection of papers and notes on those papers . In fact , you may even have an ethical obligation to retain those materials if the notes therein are necessary to reproduce any of your present work . As an analogy , think about what I did many years ago when moving from one university to another . I had an extensive paper collection of reprints , many photocopied from my institution 's library and many extensively annotated . I boxed all of these up and brought them with me . No one in their right mind -- nor even most copyright lawyers , I 'd imagine -- would have had me go through those files and discard the articles not in volumes held by my new institution . Disclaimer : I am not a lawyer and this is not legal advice . It does seem to be good common sense , though , and sometimes that can be worth at least as much as anything a lawyer would tell you .
It is down to the supervisor , i myself believe any extra research projects adds a LOT to your own skills . Being taken out of your comfort zone and learning new skills improves yourself as a researcher . Besides how much " real " work time can you devote to one PHD before your productivity falls off dramatically . I see a lot of PHD 's concentrate soo much on their project that they do n't spend enough time learning new things that makes them so much more productive in the long run . However , aimlessly going to lectures where you do n't apply those skills is less worthwhile than doing a project . Having said that , if you know a good lecturer whose lecture series illuminates a previously difficult and unknown area , and those gems are out there , then it is not wasted time . Devoting your time to a job unless it does teach you new skills may be pushing it .
It is what it is . Some schools give you less opportunity for teaching than others ( e.g. , schools in the UK ) . If you are looking for a research postdoc , then having a lot of teaching experience is not too important . For instance , at my institution , we want to make sure you 're competent and not going to cause problems , but you do n't need to have won five teaching awards . This is evidenced primarily by your teaching letter . If you think you can get a decent teaching letter now , then I would n't worry about it . ( Note : if you 're TAing now and probably wo n't be again before you apply , consider having someone who will write you a letter observe your class . ) If you 're looking for a " teaching postdoc , " e.g. a temporary position at a liberal arts school , they typically want more evidence that you 're a good teacher , so you might try to actively look for more teaching opportunities . Note : presumably many other students at your institution have the same issue . Try finding out how much TAing recent graduates did and what kind of jobs they got after graduating .
Such positions are sometimes created and attached to full W3 professors , essentially as a temporary Assistent in the old parlance ( compare C1 ) . Whether this is actually done may depend on your field , your Bundesland ( you are in Baden-Wrttemberg , where this is possible in general ) and even your university . You may want to talk to your supervisor , who may have the most vested interest in having you continue on board , especially if you have a proven track record and/or specialized knowledge . However , it would probably be better for your CV to get a " normal " Juniorprofessur to show that you can stand on your own feet , rather than continue in your supervisor 's working group . Alternatively , there are ways of getting funding for a few years that may not be a Juniorprofessur in name , but in effect . For instance , the DFG 's <URL> . After a few years funded through this program , you will be considered berufbar . You will need to apply with your own research proposal . The advantage is that this is very competitive , and if you snag one of these , it is a true mark of excellence . In addition , you will be independent of senior professors , and it offers quite a number of networking opportunities . If you can manage to get one of these , it would be ideal .
It is not a FERPA violation per se , but it might be a violation of university policy which is put in place to guarantee the privacy of student records . This is analogous to the law corresponding to the IRB requirement -- the US government does n't say what the rule and procedure must be , just what the purpose is and that there must be rules and procedures . The main consideration is that student records ca n't be " shared " with unauthorized parties , the the university has an obligation to be sure that only authorized parties receive access to these records . My institution classifies all electronic communication with students as " student records " , and requires all student records to be viewed and stored only on official university computers on campus , encrypted , and sent to an official campus email address . Technically , this means that if a student emails me a question , I ca n't reply until I 'm on campus using an authorized university computer , and my response has to be encrypted .
In-person requests are always the best route , because you can gauge willingness and eagerness to write the letters much more directly than via telephone or email . However , if you ca n't be there , because you 've moved away , then it is of course appropriate to ask for letters by email . Whether or not the professor will grant the request or not is of course a question . However , I would mention that you 've moved ( and where you currently are ) as part of your request , so that the professor knows why you 're not able to come in for a meeting if asked .
I do n't know about combinatorics in particular , but I did get a PhD from one of Carnegie Mellon 's other interdisciplinary programs ( Pure and Applied Logic ) ; I was offered the choice of whether my PhD would officially be in the program name or in " Mathematical Sciences " , and was advised to choose the latter . If you 're PhD is in something other than " Mathematics " or an obvious synonym , and you want to get hired as mathematics faculty , there are two concerns that might come up : Do you know enough math , broadly speaking , to be a good colleague ( for instance , be out outside member on thesis committees , to talk to people , and so on ) ? Can you teach introductory courses ? I do know of people with degrees called " Logic " where these concerns were raised about hiring them . In the cases I know , someone was around to address those concerns , but it might be a disadvantage in departments where no one in the faculty was familiar enough with the program to address them . ( On the other hand , places where no one is familiar with your program are n't as likely to hire you anyway . ) With a degree in something as clearly mathematical as combinatorics , I think the first concern is unlikely to be an issue . The latter might be , especially if those programs do n't necessarily include any TA-ing/teaching of intro calculus courses , but this is also a concern that can be preempted ( for instance , by making sure to pursue enough teaching experience as a grad student ) .
Plagiarism involves dishonesty : taking someone else 's work and leading others to believe it is your own . In the case of unpublished teaching materials , I do n't think it 's assumed that all the examples , etc. , a professor uses are original unless an outside source is cited . So I would n't strictly consider this plagiarism ( though citing outside sources is definitely preferable to not citing them ) . It 's possible that in your academic culture it is assumed that all of a professor 's materials are original , in which case , the above would not apply .
end question
start question
Can a dean expel a doctoral student without a trial ?
Universities do not in my experience hold " trials " in order to reach their decisions , however weighty . So the answer to the literal question asked is probably " yes " . I guess what you mean to ask is whether the dean has the unilateral power to do this . I 'm not entirely clear on what " this " is : what does " preventing him from completing his PhD " or " effectively expelling " mean , precisely ? But even if I did , I would have to know the rules of your friend 's university rather intimately in order to answer . ( Someone in your university has the power to do this . As @Paul comments , probably more than one person was involved in the decision . Just because the action looks single-handed to your friend does not mean that other university officials were not involved . ) One tip : if your friend 's adviser does n't know , get your friend to tell her !! ( i ) Could it make things any worse ? ( ii ) Wo n't she find or sooner or later ? Sooner may be soon enough to at least try to do something about it ; later , maybe not . Added " It seems the dean is harassing him , pure and simple . " Well then he should report it to ... oh . Seriously , if by this you mean that you think the dean has some kind of vendetta against your friend which caused him to simply fabricate these charges : though obviously I do n't and ca n't know the situation , I find that very unlikely . Though there may be no " trial " system in the university , there will be some kind of clear guidelines and procedures for expelling students . If the harassment is simply made up then the expelling could n't possibly have followed these procedures , which would open the university up to a trial , possibly an embarrassing and costly one . I think I understand this clearly , but a dean understands it like I ca n't even imagine .
Of course I 'm not a lawyer , but I 'd distinguish between two thresholds : Before the paper can be published , you need to grant legal permission via a license or copyright transfer . If you have n't done that yet , then the publisher ca n't force you to let them publish the paper . That gives a narrow window in which you could still block publication after the paper is accepted ( but whether you could ethically do so depends on your reason for objecting ) . Once the published version has appeared ( even just on the publisher 's website ) , there 's nothing you can do without a powerful reason . At that point , you would be retracting a published paper , which is a far more serious act . In between these thresholds , I do n't know what would happen . I 'd guess that if you asked the publisher not to publish a paper you had already signed a copyright transfer for , then they would probably agree . After all , publishing a paper against the author 's wishes could look bad , even if they were legally entitled to do so . However , if you did n't have a very good reason ( such as a major error in the paper ) , then the publisher would be rather unhappy . I would n't be surprised if they asked you to cover any copyediting or typesetting costs , and this sort of unprofessional behavior would be terrible for your reputation . Further , who has the final say on copy edits and type setting ? In principle this depends on the publishing agreement . In practice , the ones I 've seen usually give the publisher final say , but the publisher usually defers to the author about anything intellectually substantive during the proofreading stage . ( On the other hand , the author gets more or less no input into matters of style such as font choice , British vs. American spelling , etc. )
For US universities applications are almost universally prescreened for completeness and meeting any stated minimum requirements . The prescreen in process is almost always extremely rigid when minimum requirements are set . The wording on website is often confusing since sometimes schools want to be able to make special acceptances to people who do not meet the minimums . This requires someone from the department to beg and plead with the admin team . One place there is generally no flexibility at all is TOEFL requirements . It would be perfectly reasonable to call/email the department and ask , large departments get many such requests every year . Just realize that the answer will likely be the minimum is the minimum .
I do n't think what you 're describing is all that common , and I 've never heard of any sort of systematic program , but it does happen . I ended up spending two months abroad during grad school to participate in a once off trimester program in my area of specialty . There were n't any standard arrangements in place , though : my home university ( very generously ) moved things around so I could do it . I think I 've heard of other cases , all similarly involving unique circumstances like faculty moving around or particular personal connections .
I have published in the IEEE and " Student Member , IEEE , " is what you should write after your name ( if you care to ) , because you 're not a full member . Note that it does n't have any benefits to it -- you do n't get a discount/additional copies/favorable review/faster review/muffins / ... nada . It is exactly the same as if you had listed nothing at all . Perhaps the only advantage might be for senior members , who want visibility ( as a member ) in order to be elected a Fellow , and for Fellows , if they want to show off ( but by that point , you probably do n't care ) .
Imagine , as a thought experiment , making your points in an argumentative text -- a paper * -- that should pass peer review by your department ( assuming intellectual honesty on their part ) -- so that you have to be careful that what you write is objective . You have to separate facts , beliefs , anecdotical evidence , etc. . Then you have something you can pitch to people ( in an informal context ) while being professional and objective when describing facts , so it subsumes lots of other advice . ( EDIT : lots of other things would be relevant to getting a paper accepted , but I only care about being careful with your opinion ) . Moreover , framing things this way might help you expose them to anybody else -- from people on this forum , to your advisor , to people who might change things at your school . Many of them will be excellent at arguing their point this way , you have to be better than them to win . While this is a top school , it has several disadvantages in comparison to other top schools : funding is inferior to other schools . in my experience , dealing with the administration was frustrating [ evidence ] while other schools allow you to pick your advisor , here you get it assigned through a rotation system . While it has the advantage of ... , it prevents you from picking the advisor with which you 'd work best ( something that you probably want to read about if you did n't already ) . ... The above is n't very convincing or accurate . Also , I do n't have citations appropriate for your field . But hopefully you get the drift . Also , as others said , if you can , give your opinion in an informal context ( as recommended by others ) . The event should include moments for honest opinions . * I suspect some would debate to which extent a paper is an argumentative text , because this depends somewhat on the scientific community -- at the very least , the importance of some results is not just a fact , but something that ( in this information overload era ) you need to argue for , if you want to get attention of your readers . In case you have n't been taught this already , somebody might be failing you more than you think .
I 've seen a couple of PhD defenses with demos ( in engineering/computer science ) . It 's not common because many PhD theses do n't naturally require a demo due to their subject , or because a demo would be logistically difficult ( e.g. requires special equipment that ca n't be brought to the room where the defense will take place , or takes too long given the time allotted for the defense ) . Also , live demonstrations are somewhat prone to failure , and a PhD defense is not a good time for a failed demo :) But if a major contribution of the thesis happens to be something demonstrable , and it 's not too difficult logistically , then a demo can definitely enhance a defense . ( If logistics are the issue , a short video of the demo can also enhance a defense . )
Let us assume , for example , you read Doe ( 2011 ) and find Smith ( 1966 ) referenced therein . Technically , you can say something like " Smith ( 1966 , cited in Doe , 2011 ) " , or alternatively " ( Smith 1966 , cited in Doe , 2011 ) . " The exact format depends on the format of the journal ( it is also possible to phrase it " cited by " instead of " cited in " ) . That said , however , it is very dangerous to provide such quotes since you do not know if the person ( s ) citing the paper has understood it correctly . It is not unheard of that people cite for very odd reasons and not double-checking works cited may just propagate such errors . So , it is possible but not recommended .
Let me explain my comment as an answer . The admission process works in two different ways : Formal enrolment and informal enrolment Formal You apply through university web link and select the research areas or supervisor . Then probably you communicate with the chosen supervisor through email ( s ) . If things go well then you might get an interview call or direct admit . Informal You approach the supervisor first . Discussions or interviews may go on . If everything is alright , you supervisor would speak with the admission committee for your official admit . In both these types of cases your supervisor recommends for the admission . However , it is the decision of the admission committee to make the final call . Note : I have skipped the recommendation letters related points which is a major part in both these types of enrolment . Moreover , each University has their own set of rules . It is wise to go through the same .
Termination of the advising/mentoring relationship You should check with your department or university policies , but at most places you can unilaterally terminate your advisory / mentoring role by emailing the department chair or graduate coordinator . This is , after all , a voluntary role for you . And given that you no longer trust the student , I do n't think you can operate as their advisor in good faith yourself ( you could n't write the letters of recc that they 'd need for funding or jobs , for example ) . If you do n't feel the relationship can be repaired , then you should drop them . If the student has no other advisor , they may be at risk to be an orphan . Since most stages of graduate school ( orals , candidacy , continuing enrollment , funding , research ) require an advisor , a student who has no advisor is at risk of not being able to continue in the program . There is often a short period of time that is given to the student to find a new advisor . At some places students are formally terminated if they ca n't advance ; at others not being allowed to advance puts them in a limbo state where they can not enroll but are not terminated . Departments tend to not like the creation of orphans and there may be informal sanctions for an advisor who orphans students for no good reason . However , you do seem to have a good reason and if true , your colleagues should back you . The real result is however that the student may have to leave the program . University Expulsion Not being able to continue for lack of an advisor is much more common than actual expulsion , given that expulsion procedures usually require a hearing and the presentation of proof of malfeasance .
There is no general reason why this should not be possible/allowed . You will have to check the regulations of your department/university for PhD students : They may require you to seek approval of your advisor prior to submission of papers . Potentially a journal could have a similar rule in place , but I have never encountered this . That said , I do not believe this to be advisable : If your relationship with your PhD advisor is so bad that do you not feel you can ask them about your intention to submit this paper , you should probably seek a new advisor . If you are so close to graduating that your prefer sitting it out , then rocking the boat is probably a bad idea .
Of course , you 'll get there by engaging in a lot of activities where you will meet new people and work with people who will learn to know you . I recommend choosing them according to a few criteria : Activities of a seemingly technical ( or practical ) nature . As a PhD student , you probably do n't want to be on boring committees , board-style meetings , interdepartmental seminars . You will meet people , but not in a way that fosters collaboration . ( However , you may want to attend these events for other purposes . Meeting key people involved in hiring decisions at a given institution is one such purpose that comes to mind . ) Informal settings . This favors meeting new people and getting to know them much better . Favor small meetings over big ones . Aim for a few persons you want to meet . Identify people you would like to approach ( at a big event ) , then check what events they attend . Manage to invite people for talks at your institution . Okay , this one might be a bit difficult for a PhD student in some places , but if you can manage to get someone invited for a day or two , get him to give a talk and discuss your research and his , it will be worth it . Do not shy away from " learning " events : tutorials , " hands-on with XXX library " type of things . All in all , I think the kind of events you want to engage in are : Open source projects : you listed that one already Workshops close to your research topic : these typically involve few people and long discussions . Many of my strongest collaborations ( and a few friendships ) grew out of workshops . Tutorials organized on topics related , but not too close , to your research : you will learn stuff , meet people in a relaxed setting . Do n't be shy of going to workshops where you already know some of the stuff , if only to put it in practice and discuss with the best experts . Also , be ready to present your own work and identify convergences with lecturers and other participants .
All bibliographic software has a learning curve . You have to invest time and energy up front to learn the system and set up your database , and only reap the benefits later in the decreased amortized cost of maintaining correct citations . If somebody does n't think the tradeoff will be worth it ( e.g. , thinks they " are n't good with computers " or does n't think they 'll write many papers that the software would be useful for or is in a rush and is n't thinking about the long term ) , then they may manage a bibliography by hand . For example , I 'm a devout LaTeX/BibTeX user and would never consider doing something by hand -- except that I have done so on a few occasions when forced to use an incompatible format where it was n't worth setting up a new toolchain ( e.g. , putting a few citations at the end of a PowerPoint deck ) .
I would say this is your opportunity to explore and find a ( hopefully small ) gap in the literature that you can fill . Reading literature reviews is the best way to start . I had a similar experience a little earlier in my degree ( masters ) , and I was able to pick a topic that I loved , and it kept me going ; I am almost finished , and it has been , IMO , a successful endeavor . If you are applying to a PhD program after , you will have experience exploring a little on your own . Your advisor will be able to say in their recommendation letter that you took initiative in your research . The difficult part will be carving out something meaningful that you can do in 7-9 months ( 1 month to research and decide &amp; 2-4 months for thesis writing and defense at the end ) . Your advisor should be able to help you to narrow the scope to something manageable .
In US institutions I 'm familiar with , the meeting with the dean serves the following purposes : It is a way for the dean to exert oversight over the hiring process . While the dean is usually not able to tell if the candidate is really as amazing as the department will claim he/she is when they later ask to hire him/her , the dean can at least provide a basic sanity check , filter out obviously unqualified candidates , or detect various red flags indicating that there may be something seriously wrong with the department 's candidate selection mechanism . It is a way for the dean to signal to the department that he/she takes hiring seriously and is involved in the process . This may lead the department faculty to also take it more seriously and approach hiring with more respect and integrity . It is a way for the department and dean to signal to the candidate that they take him/her seriously , to the extent that the dean is making his/her precious time available for the purpose of having the meeting . If the candidate is a hot commodity being sought after by several schools , this can be important . It is an opportunity for the candidate to impress the dean with his/her brilliance . Usually the dean will not be so involved with decision making that this will make much of a difference , but nonetheless , there are subtle ways that the dean being particularly impressed with a candidate ( or conversely , particularly unimpressed ) can be communicated down the hiring chain , and in cases of extreme brilliance/lack thereof this could end up making a difference . It is an opportunity for the dean to impress the candidate with his/her own brilliance . The interview is a two-sided event in which both parties are evaluating each other , so this is part of the package of the university trying to sell itself to an attractive candidate . Again , usually candidates wo n't care so much about the personality of the dean where they are interviewing , but in extreme cases a super-amazing dean can make the school seem materially more attractive , and a super-horrible dean can make the candidate run for their life . Usually none of these effects are very significant , and not meeting the dean almost certainly wo n't make any difference one way or another on the outcome of the interview . The final use for the meeting that I can think of is the only one that actually matters somewhat ( though still not very much ) , which is : In the event that the candidate met with the dean and was later hired , they arrive at a campus where they already met the dean . This contributes to their sense of familiarity with the place ( and presumably confidence that it is well run ) and gives them a feeling that if there is any trouble at the department they know who to go to . A small thing perhaps , but still worth something in my opinion ... Bottom line : in your situation , do n't worry about it . If you end up being hired you will meet the dean sooner or later .
Here are some ideas from Linda Kober , author of a publication by the National Research Council 's Board on Science Education , Reaching Students : What Research Says About Effective Instruction in Undergraduate Science and Engineering . This comes from Chapter 6 , " Overcoming Challenges " , in the section " Helping Students Embrace New Ways of Learning and Teaching " : Make clear from the first day why these teaching strategies are effective , and be explicit about how they benefit students , and what is expected of students . Show students evidence of how research-based strategies will help them learn and prepare for their future life . Use a variety of interesting learning activities . Encourage word-of-mouth among upper-level students who have already taken the course . Listen to students ' concerns and make changes to address legitimate ones . Make sure that grading and other policies are fair [ e.g. , group work ] . For details you can get a <URL> ( note blue button in top right ) .
It is a common thread - see <URL> and <URL> . An excerpt from the first : The advisor-advisee dynamic needs to shift over the course of a degree . Early on , the advisor should be hands on , doling out specific topics and helping to craft early papers . Toward the end , the student should know more than the advisor about her topic . Once the inversion happens , she needs to " go rogue " and start choosing the topics to investigate and initiating the paper write-ups . She needs to do so even if her advisor is insisting she do something else . The trick is getting the timing right . Going rogue before the student knows how to choose good topics and write well will end in wasted paper submissions and a grumpy advisor . On the other hand , continuing to act only when ordered to act past a certain point will strain an advisor that expects to start seeing a " return " on an investment of time and hard-won grant money . Advisors expect near-terminal Ph.D. students to be proto-professors with intimate knowledge of the challenges in their field . They should be capable of selecting and attacking research problems of appropriate size and scope . Personally , I have a lot of experience with unsupervised research ( yes , usually wasted a lot of time for no results ) , starting from high school . Sure , doing advisor 's project is much safer ( as , in some sense , ( s ) he is responsible for the big picture , references , judging which result is good enough ) and allows to forget about doubts ( for good or bad ) and concentrate on work . However , what I 've discovered after 1.5 of my PhD ( mostly " going rogue " ) is that there are two important things : asking experts ( or peers ) , and day-to-day collaboration . Sure , you can have an expert and a collaborator in the same person of your advisor , but as long as you are not afraid of talking to other people and have some knowledge in the topic , it should n't be hard to ask experts appropriate questions . When it comes to collaboration - it may be trickier ( but not if you locally have people with an interest overlap ) . On contrary , working alone for months on a theoretical problem , with little feedback , may be very hard ( both technically and psychologically ) . <URL> . It is not a problem for one research line , but it is when all research is done alone ( may be inefficient and depressive , perhaps unless you are in a deep love with it ) .
When you change job , you do n't erase your memory ( well , not in all jobs ) , nor do you all your responsibilities related to this previous job vanish . It is true that leaving a position creates certain obligations in the data you can retain , and how you can use non-publicly available information pertaining to your older institution . However , in the particular case of a reference letter , I do n't think it should cause trouble . Moreover , reference letters are confidential . Actually , I 'd go further than saying it should not be a problem . In fact , I think if you can honestly write him a good recommendation letter , it is part of your responsibility to do it . This responsibility is not to your former institution , but to the student and the academic system as a whole .
Yes , it is fair . The quality of reviews written by highly experienced researchers is low . Many manuscripts have obvious flaws that should be spotted by the inexperienced . Reviewers are ( in theory ) supervised by the editor . Novice reviewers are more enthusiastic than experienced reviewers . If the paper can not be understood by a PhD student , it will not be useful to very many people . PhD students may have more specialized expertise because they work on fewer projects , as compared to senior researchers ( per @nayrb ) Of course , it depends on the individual PhD student . Some are better prepared to review than others .
So is my financial situation going to depend on if I can secure a grant for my research as a postdoc or I should expect to receive a salary ? The question is not getting a grant or getting paid , it is getting paid by the institution you work for or getting your salary from a grant giving institution . How many postdocs do get paid ? ( As far as I know ) All of them . Depending on the country you are talking about it may even be illegal to employ someone without pay . However , ( as @virmaior pointed out ) there are some " postdocs " in Japan that are not paid and have no work requirements . At least in Europe and the US this is not common and in most cases this is probably a bad idea for someone looking for a regular postdoc position ( see my comment below ) . How likely is the success in either ways ? That depends on your field , the quality of your work , ... . We can not answer that but you can talk to your peers / supervisor about the job market to get an idea . [ as a postdoc ] I do not have to pay academic fees or any other fees to a university Right . One general remark : If you are not not getting a ( paid ) postdoc position or a grant you should try to find a job in the industry anyway . Finding a more senior position is usually much harder than finding a postdoc position .
end question
start question
Is it bad to publish a scientific paper with wrong results ?
Publishing things that you know are erroneous is a good way to get a really bad scientific reputation . Depending on how severe it is , it might go so far as to be labelled fraud and formally sanctioned , basically killing your career . If it 's important , then yes , you need to fix it . If it 's not published yet , then fix it before you publish it . If it 's published , then you will need to submit a correction or possibly even a retraction . Good scientists do this , and <URL> .
Some journals accept a type of short correspondence or comment in which objections to some published material can be submitted . If you can articulate your objections in a scientific way suitable for publishing you may try this approach . For example , imagine the original analysis has some error . Reanalyzing the data gives different results and invalidates the previous publication . Conversely in this approach the authors of the original study have the opportunity to reply to your complaints . An example of this is a <URL> published in Nature Genetics , where the authors highlight important deficiencies in the design of the experiments in <URL> that can lead to incorrect conclusions . Of course , the authors of the original paper are allowed to <URL> . Correspondences have the advantage that can be very short . I am not sure at this moment if Nature also accepts this format . If the material that demonstrates the error in the original publication is substantial it may grant an additional publication . This is for example what happened with the paper that demonstrated <URL> , which led to a response paper analyzing the same data , and <URL> .
Yes , I would advise against using the words novel or new for the following reasons ( which overlap with what you already argued ) : It 's almost impossible to fully ascertain that something is new . Even if you just discovered some outstanding and surprising effect like superconductivity , somebody else may have discovered it a month earlier and is just about to publish it . At the same time , you are expected to have ascertained the novelty of what you are doing as well as reasonably possible and to document it in your introduction or literature review . To quote <URL> : The message you want to send is " I have read every paper on this topic , and none of them do this thing that I 'm about to do . " If you have any reason to believe that what you are doing is not novel , you should either document this ( e.g. , " we tried to reproduce this experiment " ) or not try to publish at all . Thus , there is never any reason to claim something is novel -- it is implicit that everything you write that is neither common knowledge nor equipped with a citation is novel to your best knowledge . The <URL> by the American Physical Society ( one of the most prolific publishers in physics ) argues similarly : Physical Review adheres to the following policy with respect to use of terms such as " new " or " novel : " All material accepted for publication in the Physical Review is expected to contain new results in physics . Phrases such as " new , " " for the first time , " etc. , therefore should normally be unnecessary ; they are not in keeping with the journal 's scientific style . Furthermore , such phrases could be construed as claims of priority , which the editors can not assess and hence must rule out .
Aeismail makes an important point about location : what 's standard in Germany differs from what 's standard in the US . In a US context , I would strongly recommend against listing things like declined graduate fellowships . It will look strange , and even beyond that it can work to your disadvantage : everybody will already assume you declined several attractive offers , so giving an explicit list will do nothing but focus attention on what is n't on the list . ( If the list of declined offers is short , readers will be disappointed , and if it 's long , they 'll spend more time speculating about what 's missing than being impressed . ) The only time I 'd recommend highlighting this sort of information is if for some reason you had to turn down a vastly more prestigious offer than the one you accepted . For example , maybe you were offered a tenure-track job at a top department , but ended up working as an adjunct in the middle of nowhere so you could take care of a relative . You should then make sure everybody knows this the next time you are able to apply for jobs . However , you should be very careful when doing this , because if the prestige difference is n't absolutely universally acknowledged , then you run the risk of offending people who feel you are unfairly denigrating a perfectly fine career path .
Check with the department/school first . In general for use of any work address : For something like receiving a single package , it should be fine . For something like receiving regular mail on a daily basis , no you should not do this . Besides the issues of policy , there is an increased labor of the recipient to deliver your personal mail . There may be delays . And , normally these boxes are in a partially-public area and subject to theft . I 've been in situations like this , so I got a PO box once and a private mailbox company another time .
Recently , I have had a very similar situation occur . The original paper discussed and explained the theoretical and practical aspects of a scientific technique that we adapted ; the second discussed and explained the programming automation of the technique . My advisor and co-author advised me at the time that each paper has got to be unique , taking the lead from the previous one and adding new information , techniques etc. . The journal that I published in are quite happy to take on a follow up article , just as long as it is sufficiently unique . So , in answer to your questions - it would most likely be a new paper for publication , make reference to the previous one , but place the emphasis on the new developments .
I do n't think the professor minds too much , but you should of course be prepared for him to decline if he chooses to . Though I myself could hardly care less , I have colleagues who would definitely think unsuitable ( because it 's not how it 's planned ) . However , I think the other students might mind , as you noted , if they began to see it as you " stealing " time from their limited allocation . As always , sharing is no problem unless the resource is scarce :) So , in short , I do n't think it 's a big problem , given that you are mindful of others .
Is it okay to use Mathematica to solve the integration and use the result in my research ? Of course it is . It might be useful , though , to make the Mathematica code employed for the calculations available to others , either through a public repository or by a note in the paper suggesting to contact the author ( s ) . This will allow reviewers or other readers to check your calculations , or , possibly , reuse or extend them . In a paper where I made extensive use of Mathematica , I wrote the following note at the end : To those interested , the authors can provide the Mathematica notebooks of the full calculations developed in this work .
You should consult with your advisor about conventions in your field . I think generally , people lightly edit interviews such as these , so if the laughter is n't revelant to what the subject is saying , you can leave it out . If it is important , you do n't have to onomatopoetically transcribe it as " haha . " You can write " [ laughter ] " or " [ interviewee laughs ] . "
Universities love to add bureaucratic layers and it is quite common for a university ( or schools within universities ) to carry out strategic planning to identify research priorities . A quick search reveals <URL> is to " Seize rapidly expanding opportunities in biomedical research to increase human well-being " and identifies human genetics , therapeutic discovery , neuroscience , bioengineering , immunology and microbial sciences , stem cell and regenerative biology , and systems biology as key areas that have the potential to connect fundamental science with clinical applications . <URL> includes a an " emphasis on interdisciplinary research and graduate education in order to expand our leadership in important fields and the collaborative atmosphere across our campuses . " They are <URL> Data Science , Engineering Biology , Global Health , Infectious Diseases , Neuroscience , Photonics , and Urban Health . <URL> of Cultures and Communication , Digital Futures , Health and Wellbeing , Sustainable Societies , and Transformative Technologies
Conferences often use some sort of semi-automated system for matching papers and reviewers , in which case keyword/topic selection will be very important . Even when it is done by hand or by bidding , keyword/topic selection will typically guide who the paper gets assigned to . Moreover , some conferences also have special reviewing procedures or criteria for certain tracks . Thus , what you select determines the audience you are claiming will best appreciate your paper , and thus which reviewers will be looking at it . If you pick the wrong ones , you 'll get unappreciative reviewers , and have a much higher chance of getting rejected . If might get noticed and corrected on your behalf , but in my experience it is more likely that you will simply have a mismatch and get poorly reviewed .
First of , you are absolutely asking the right question ( " what can I do to make a good relationship ? " ) . The answer depends a bit on the preferences of your advisor - what works for some may not work for others . Here are a few things you could think about : You say you work from home . This automatically decouples you from the lab and your advisor . Have you thought whether it would be possible to work in the lab ( if they have room for you ) for , for instance , two days a week ? This would also help make sure that you stay on the track your advisor wants your research to go , see also Nicholas ' answer . You say you work mainly with some of his PhD students . Try to bond and network with the PhD students you like , and impress them with your technical aptitude and motivation . Thinking back on my PhD advisor , the only master students he really remembered were the ones that his PhD students were constantly praising in their meetings with him . See if there is a chance to publish something ( with your advisor ) in the context of your master 's thesis . This not only shows motivation , but also has an immediate benefit for your advisor . During paper writing , you will also automatically have a number of meetings with your advisor . If you are interested in doing a PhD , indicate this to your advisor and ask for feedback . I have the impression that many professors take significantly more interest in master students that want to stay on the academic path than in those that are about to leave to industry .
You ca n't ethically do anything based on ideas from this paper until it is made public ( by the authors as a preprint , or by the publisher ) . In particular , before that point you ca n't refer to the paper , you ca n't use the ideas without referring to it , you ca n't publish or otherwise disseminate results based on it , and you ca n't discuss it with other people , including your collaborators . It can be really frustrating to know something important and be unable to tell anyone else for the time being , but there 's no way around it ethically . The reason is that submitting a paper for publication is not considered to release it for other use or dissemination until it is actually published . The people involved in processing and evaluating it ( most notably the editors and reviewers ) have an ethical obligation to keep all information about the submission strictly confidential and not to use it to gain any personal advantage . Once it is published of course it can be treated the same as any other paper , and in the meantime the authors can choose to make information publicly available via preprints or talks ( in which case others can follow up on this information as appropriate ) , but nobody else is authorized to release any information before publication beyond what the authors have chosen to share , or to use it for any purpose other than reviewing the paper . Otherwise it has the same ethical status as using material you stole off the authors ' desks . There 's no reason why the research community has to work this way in principle , but it 's the system that has evolved over time . ( Note that as recently as the 1930 's , famous physicists were <URL> as to how peer review should work . ) It 's possible that in the future we will move to systems such as submitting for publication only after releasing a preprint . That seems to be the trend in some fields , but we have n't yet made a full transition if we ever will , and the community 's ethical principles still offer protection to authors who choose not to distribute their paper before publication . Nobody signs a non-disclosure agreement when reviewing a paper , but the ethical principles are well established . Deliberately violating them would be a serious form of misconduct , which could easily be career-ending if it was more than a minor or technical violation . Pete L. Clark asks in the comments whether referees are allowed to prepare follow-up papers , as long as they do n't distribute them before the original paper becomes public . I.e. , does the " you ca n't ethically do anything based on ideas from this paper " really mean you ca n't do anything , or just that you ca n't disseminate anything yet ? ( Let 's assume it 's a single-authored paper that is not discussed with anyone else in advance . ) My interpretation is that nobody can stop you from thinking a little , and you may not even be able to stop yourself , but actively working on and writing a paper of your own would be abusing your position as referee . There probably is n't a consensus as to exactly where the line is for what 's strictly forbidden , but either side of the line could still look terrible . If you want to publish work you began thinking about as a referee , I 'd strongly recommend against doing it so quickly that 's it clear you had to have known about the original paper in advance .
As a general rule , you can not publish anything as original research that has already been published . ( You may be able to reprint it in other venues , but most research journals do not do this . ) Of course , the trick is what counts as " already published " . Nowadays , many publishers ( including all mathematics publishers , for example ) do not count informal distribution on the internet as prior publication . It 's common not to count extended abstracts from conference proceedings , although the journal may require some revisions or extensions . Nobody counts submitting a dissertation as prior publication , even if the university makes it available for download or purchase , and technical reports are generally in the same category . On the other hand , publication as a " real book " definitely counts as prior publication and would rule out journals . Of course , this just brings up the question of what a " real book " is . Basically , if it 's published by a serious academic publisher , with some nontrivial selection and editorial advice , then that counts as publication . On the other hand , if it 's some random publisher printing copies of Ph.D. theses and selling them online , then you could make a strong case that it 's not really published ( and that this is not so different from ordering a dissertation copy ) . However , I think you need to discuss this explicitly when submitting your paper . For example , you could add a sentence to your submission letter along the lines of " This work is based on my thesis from University X , which is available for sale by Y but has not been traditionally published " . It 's much better to deal with this upfront than to have someone later ask " Wait , why is someone selling copies of this work online ? "
Well someone 's got to pay . If it 's the reader , then howls go up about Open Access . So that leaves the authors . The costs of publishing A high-quality journal needs high-quality editors . An awful lot of literature still gets printed and distributed around the world and that 's expensive . Remember , reading this , we are the ones who are most active online , and so our paper-reading habits are much more likely to be skewed towards predominantly ( or even exclusively ) online access , so are not fully representative . High-quality journals often also get involved in conference sponsorship , publicity , and so on . The peer-reviews get co-ordinated ; there is often some vetting of suitable reviewers ; their responses need to be interpreted correctly ; special issues get co-ordinated ; someone ensures a good balance of articles covering the journal 's remit . So , there 's a lot of costs , and someone 's got to cover them . If we want to publish at almost-zero overheads , we write a blog . A journal is much much more than a blog - and some of the things that make it much more than a blog , cost money . Not necessarily an efficient market That 's not to say that in certain sectors , there is n't a market failure : some sectors do have suspiciously high profit margins . And market regulators should be looking at removing barriers to entry . Those barriers certainly are n't insurmountable , as notable new scientific publishers have emerged recently , with new business models : <URL> being an obvious example , founded in 2000 to support Open Access , and <URL> ; and now a serious player , using the author-pays model . Author beware There are also plenty of scammers using the author-pays model . So be careful out there . Talk to colleagues about who 's reputable and who 's not . Read the journals . And there are lists online of the disreputable publishers . Read more about that on this site at <URL>
In general , ' comments ' can be comments in support or comments in disagreement . Usually people tend to only submit comment when they are moved strongly to point out a disagreement . But , as question specifically referred to Nature 's " <URL> " ( BRA ) the answer is NO . The BRA notes that " Submissions should challenge the main conclusions of the Nature paper and contain new , unpublished data to support the arguments . " . ( i.e. , pointing out errors , reinterpreting conclusions , coming to a different end result , comments to refute ) . Showing that there is an alternative method that is better than that presented in the paper does n't seem to fall under that ' challenge ' to the paper . ( Unless perhaps you can write it as challenging some final conclusion that their method is the best possible ever ? ) They offer the option to add extensive comments under the paper on the website . But then it will be difficult for others to be able to cite or even find your work . It sounds as if you should find a journal and submit your your method as improvement in XX algorithm/method , citing the original Nature paper . For comments and criticism there is a brilliant new service of pre - and post-publication reviews called Publons . For example , a <URL> of a sensational paper in Nature . Each review is assigned a DOI , so others may easily cite your comments . Also , it is well covered with Altmetric , which provides quite a visibility to your comment . Yet , no official impact factor for you reply publication .
It depends totally on your status , and what exactly this collaboration entails . You say " working as a staff under one professor " . If you 're on a short-term contract ( say , post-doc ) , then it 's probably not okay to do independent research on something completely different . You were hired on a project and it 's unlikely that you have any significant time left for something else . On the other hand , if this new collaboration is related to your project and you involve your professor in it , it is okay ( and he will welcome this initiative from which everyone involved benefits ) . To the above , there are a few exceptions : People who just arrived usually have some unfinished business with their previous institution , and they are given a bit more leeway in finishing it : revisions to make to papers on track for publication , conference attendance , etc. . People who are leaving due to their contract ending have to get involved with other projects to get a new job . They have to go fishing around , and this sometime requires a bit of extra work . Finally , if your activity on the side is quite unrelated to your main job , and you manage to do it on your own time without prejudice to your employer , you may do so . Some people write books , some get involved in open source software unrelated to their employment , etc. . If you 're working as an longer-term staff researcher in someone 's group , then it is expected that they respect your academic freedom . To a reasonable extent , you are free to engage in new collaborations with other people , and not necessarily involve your group leader .
Symbolic notation must always be defined in a paper . The reason is that there are not that many symbols and lots of things they can be used to represent . Thus , even if every class you ever took used v to represent voltage , other people are using it to represent velocity , vertices , values , etc. . See , for example , <URL> . At a minimum , each symbol should be defined the first time that it is used . It is also helpful to your readers to provide a table of important symbols and to refresh their memory on definitions of critical symbols from time to time . This can often be done quite simply and efficiently within the sentence where the symbol is used , e.g. : we consider a particle traveling at velocity v through a magnetic field of strength B ( x ) , where x is the position of the particle in space .
As Marc says in his comment , the best thing to do is probably to incorporate the new proof into your revision , after you get reviewer feedback . A small extension not worth its own paper is unlikely to make a difference between reject and revise . If you send it now , it may annoy the editor and reviewers . Also , the reviewers will likely be just fine with more new material you add in revision .
Publishing things that you know are erroneous is a good way to get a really bad scientific reputation . Depending on how severe it is , it might go so far as to be labelled fraud and formally sanctioned , basically killing your career . If it 's important , then yes , you need to fix it . If it 's not published yet , then fix it before you publish it . If it 's published , then you will need to submit a correction or possibly even a retraction . Good scientists do this , and <URL> .
end question
start question
Is it okay to submit a paper to a conference or publication from another field ?
There is n't anything wrong with submitting to a conference that might not be a perfect fit . I would urge you to ensure that the fit is decent enough that you wo n't be wasting anyone 's time , but cross-polination can be great for both fields . When I was a graduate student and was helping my advisor review papers for a prominent conference , I read an outstanding paper that I did n't believe was on-topic for the conference , and I suggested to my advisor that it should be rejected it even though it had a novel ( and cool ) contribution . When I discussed it with her , she said that for really excellent papers , program committees will sometimes be flexible . If I was convinced it was that good , she said , I should give it a positive review and let the committee sort it out . In the end they accepted the paper . It was very well-received at the conference , and the authors were excited to get the paper into the competitive conference , where it would undoubtedly be seen by a lot of people .
I wanted to see if there is any way to point out who was the main contributor in a graph paper or not ? Generally not . In pure mathematics it 's extremely unconventional to use any author ordering other than alphabetical . You could try , but it will look weird and attract negative attention , and nobody will be quite sure how to interpret it . In particular , you run the risk of having people think " this jerk insisted on being listed first despite the near-universal use of alphabetical order " . I virtually never see papers with any other author ordering , and I would not recommend it . It 's also rare and considered awkward to include any discussion in the paper of who contributed what . One reason is that it 's difficult to write such a discussion fairly . For example , suppose your collaborators try three approaches that fail before you find one that works . Reasonable people could disagree as to whether your collaborators were obviously on the wrong track all along , or whether they pointed the way to the solution by eliminating other plausible methods . ( The general principle is that if your collaborators are n't useful , then you should n't be working with them . Turning this around , if they are useful enough that you are happy to work with them before the problem is solved , then you ca n't retroactively decide that they were n't useful enough afterwards . ) The flip side of this is that the standards for being an author are fairly demanding , and coauthors should have seriously worked on the mathematics itself . In particular , supervising the project or editing the paper are not by themselves sufficient for coauthorship . But it 's reasonable for these people to be coauthors if they worked on the problem with you , even if you were the one who ended up making the decisive contribution . I think it may be a very deciding factor in being accepted by a good university for a master program because we can only have a few papers before graduation . The usual way this information is conveyed is a letter of recommendation from your supervisor , who can highlight the role you played in the project .
Short answer : okay , and a quite good idea , for the reasons and with few limits , see below . in academia one should never submit the same paper to two journals If only noone had done that ... So I suppose that you have a journal paper under review ( your title ) . And the workshop asks for a contribution . I doubt you will directly send the paper under review to the workshop committee . So you will write something " else " for the workshop , possibly a shortened version . Recently , I read a chronic in IEEE Information Theory Society Newsletter ( see below for the full quote ) . In the 1950s , apparently , you could present a paper to the associated workshop/conference ( only ) when it was accepted or published before in the journal . This has the advantage the audience could read the paper in detail before the talk , and allow nicer discussions . Recently , some IEEE conferences ( ICASSP , ICIP , GlobalSIP ) have begun the accept " submissions " , after the official deadlines , from papers already accepted in <URL> ( which has the same 5-page same format as the conference ) . The paper , once accepted , is presented at the conference , but it is not in the abstract book : of course , it is already " being published " by the journal . These examples show that limiting the clutter of unfinished works , submitted too early and several times at conferences , was and still is possible . Indeed , if one writes a conference paper , after presenting it , it is sometimes difficult to find the energy to write the full paper . So this sounds perfectly fine to me . The main thing to care about is ownership : as the preprint ( submitted ) is still yours , and as long as it does not infringe the workshop rules . I believe though it is honest , and useful , to mention in your workshop absract , that the extended version of the work is " under submission " , " under revision " in a journal ( you can mention the name or not ) , or accepted with the date of acceptance . <URL> ( <URL> ) , in the The Historian 's Column : It is worth noting in Fano 's letter that the number of sessions was six ( 6 ! ) and all of them were in series . Each paper was presented for about 20 minutes with 10 minutes left for discussion which was invariably lively and had to be stopped by the chair person to make sure that the schedule was kept in time . But consider this : The papers were FIRST published in the Transactions and THEN they were presented at the Symposium !! That is a total reversal of what we do today . The distinct advantage of this arrangement was that the audience had the benefit of studying the papers carefully ahead of time , which enabled an in-depth discussion after the presentation . Not a bad idea !
Yes . Publication requires both the consent of the publisher ( via the editor or program committee ) and the consent of the authors . If you do not consent to publish under the conditions imposed by the publisher , you can just say no .
You could mention the people with whom you discussed in the acknowledgements " thanks X and Y for helpful / ... discussions " and cite the conference in the text . To cite it in the correct style , I would recomment that you contact the editorial office and ask . I once asked about the style of referencing a thesis and recieved an answer very fast , so this is the safest way in my opinion .
When you are evaluated as a job candidate in academia , the first thing people will see is your PhD . That will tell them that you know how to dig into a topic , get the background knowledge that you need in order to conduct the research you are interested in . The next thing they will look at is your publication record . Because of the peer review process , they will feel confident that if you publish in reputable journals on a particular topic , you know what you 're talking about . So if you 're sure you 're headed for academia , I think you will be fine just cherry-picking the particular courses you think will be most helpful for you in Environmental Policy . ( Although if you find that you 're , say , only one or two courses away from satisfying the requirements for the masters , then I suppose you might as well finish it off . ) Think of how many PhDs veer off in a different direction during the course of their career ! They do n't bother getting a new PhD in the process , because they already have one . You can think of the PhD studies as the apprenticeship to do research , and the PhD as a driver 's license which was issued in one state , but which you can use in other states .
As a general rule : anything which is clearly academically related can go on your CV . As you say , there are certain things that are required or nearly required on your CV , but even these vary by discipline and sometimes people in the same discipline have divergent ideas . ( For instance , every once in a while I find a CV which does n't list the candidate 's undergraduate institution , or lists it without indicating the years that they spent there . I would have thought that was strictly required . I guess I was wrong . ) What to fight in adding " academically related " information to your CV is clear : if you put in too much routine stuff , you 'll get a bloated mess of a CV that few people will actually read . Drawbacks of a lengthy CV can be mitigated by very careful and clear organization . Nevertheless , you can compare CVs of two absolutely cognate people -- e.g. who attended undergrad and grad at exactly the same time and arrived at their current institution at the same time and with the same seniority -- and you 'll find significant variations , including up to at least 1/3 in the total length . It 's really your choice how much detail to put on your CV , and I would be skeptical of anyone who tells you too stridently what you must and must not do . Having said that : yes , very early career academics ( especially students ) really struggle to have a CV that does n't look unhelpfully skimpy . Conference work sounds like a great thing to put on a junior person 's CV -- and in fact , even on a senior person 's , although a more senior person might be more selective about the kind of conference work that goes on your CV . One tip : " conference volunteering " might be an undersell . Most conference organizing is unpaid , hence is volunteer work . " Conference assistant " sounds like your work was really on the level of secretarial work / technical support . If that is an accurate description of what you did , great . If you do such things more than once or twice , you should think about asking to be let in on some of the more content-related aspects of the work . For instance , if you had a say -- however small -- in choosing or recruiting the speakers or attendees , then I would go for something like " co-organizer " rather than " assistant " .
It is down to the supervisor , i myself believe any extra research projects adds a LOT to your own skills . Being taken out of your comfort zone and learning new skills improves yourself as a researcher . Besides how much " real " work time can you devote to one PHD before your productivity falls off dramatically . I see a lot of PHD 's concentrate soo much on their project that they do n't spend enough time learning new things that makes them so much more productive in the long run . However , aimlessly going to lectures where you do n't apply those skills is less worthwhile than doing a project . Having said that , if you know a good lecturer whose lecture series illuminates a previously difficult and unknown area , and those gems are out there , then it is not wasted time . Devoting your time to a job unless it does teach you new skills may be pushing it .
The publisher allows uploading preprint versions ( including revisions after reviewer comments ) If you 're allowed to do it , you are allowed to do it . To be 100 % sure , check the text of the copyright transfer agreement , where these policies are spelt out . Or , if you do n't like reading legal text so much , it is summarized for many publishers in a nice color code at <URL> .
It would seem that you should contact the organizing committee of the conference and get their advice . To me it seems kind of low to write papers that have very similar content but it does happen . If you are questioning it that much I would bring it up with the Organizing Committee and see what they say . You do n't even have to mention names or specifics but just get their general opinion .
It is not a FERPA violation per se , but it might be a violation of university policy which is put in place to guarantee the privacy of student records . This is analogous to the law corresponding to the IRB requirement -- the US government does n't say what the rule and procedure must be , just what the purpose is and that there must be rules and procedures . The main consideration is that student records ca n't be " shared " with unauthorized parties , the the university has an obligation to be sure that only authorized parties receive access to these records . My institution classifies all electronic communication with students as " student records " , and requires all student records to be viewed and stored only on official university computers on campus , encrypted , and sent to an official campus email address . Technically , this means that if a student emails me a question , I ca n't reply until I 'm on campus using an authorized university computer , and my response has to be encrypted .
Answering the more general question , sure . A polite email will never hurt you , the worst case scenario is that they are too busy to reply , or that their contact information is no longer valid . The best possible outcome , you get a nice explanation , an interesting conversation , and perhaps a couple of anecdotes about the research . Just make sure that question is : Relevant to the research . Obviously , I do n't email Linus Torvalds every time my linux computer does n't boot . The information is not easy or obvious to find . Just liquid refrigeration of computer components does n't really meet any criteria , but you could ask for the specifics . Just make sure to understand the basics first , if your question looks " dumb " , it will probably get lower priority . Reading a paper for my own research , I found a somewhat old paper ( about 10 years ) explaining the analysis of some data . One of the key points is setting the noise threshold , that they set as the maximum of the histogram . The thing is that in my data the maximum of the histogram was at 0 , following a very good power law . In short : the procedure would be invalid for my data ; but actually irrelevant for me . I commented it with my advisor and he said that I should email the author about it , and that it will probably start an interesting conversation . ( I have n't gotten to it yet , but my bet is that modern instruments are quite different ) .
There is a third way : Be pedantic about your vocabulary in the right way to make your paper more readable . Using established , clear , and consistent vocabulary and defining it when necessary is the best way to ensure that you are not misunderstood . The main advantage of " simple and easy words " is that they do not need to be explained to the reader , but this also entails that you rely on the reader interpreting these words the same way as you do , which may be not given surprisingly often . Defined vocabulary does not have this disadvantage . Moreover , you need to at least need to mention the established , " pedantic " vocabulary for context and to avoid the impression of reinventing the wheel . By consistently sticking to it , you avoid switching between different terms for the same thing , which usually impedes intelligibility . However , you should also bear in mind that readers unfamiliar with this vocabulary may want to read your paper . For these readers , define the more uncommon words and cite papers explaining the basic underlying concepts . Papers are not difficult to read because they contain new words , but because these words are not properly explained or because the reader does not understand the concepts represented by them . For example if you write a paper on theoretical particle physics , readers will have to understand some elementary aspects of quantum theory to follow your thoughts . Using vocabulary that can only appeal to readers without this basic understanding of quantum theory is pointless and only raises false expectations . Finally , if you get to introduce new concepts , you can try to choose words for them appeal to intuition , but this does not mean that you are relieved from the burden of explaining these words .
Yes , it is acceptable , particularly since the author lists will all be different . Go for it ! One word of warning : The papers themselves must have clearly different content . If you submit five nearly identical papers , the editors are likely to accept at most the best one and reject the rest . That will annoy your other co-authors mightily .
Here is roughly the way it works in my department , and I imagine this is fairly typical for math research departments in the US . People apply for postdocs . The faculty review applications . Faculty who are interested in certain candidates push for them . Some committee and/or the chair decides on a ranking of the candidates individual professors are excited about . Offers are made . For 4 , typically getting a postdoc for an emeritus professor will have very low priority , and unless the emeritus prof is active , they probably would n't push for you anyway . I believe that emeriti typically do n't even have permission to look at applications . However , I think it 's a little weird that they require you to name one faculty with common interests . I do n't remember ever seeing this when I applied . ( Is it exactly one ? If not , you could mention regular and emeritus faculty . If so , maybe that is to assign that faculty member to review your application . ) My suggestion ( say if you can only name exactly one ) is to choose a regular ( non-retired ) faculty member , but possibly mention the emeritus professor in your cover letter . If you think the emeritus professor is still active and would be interested in having you there , maybe send them an email to let them know you applied . Then they might discuss your application with other faculty .
I have a confession to make : some of my citations use fake page numbers . Why do I do this ? Because sometimes there just are n't any page numbers or I can not find the page numbers for a document with any reasonable amount of searching . This happens especially often to me with computer science papers , where some venues just do n't bother . Online journals also often have unusual approaches to page numbering , sometimes giving a DOI-like token rather than a number . In other cases , such as some book chapters , there are page numbers , but the versions accessible online are n't marked with them . My preference in these cases is simply to omit the page numbers : citations are about information accessibility , and if the page numbers are n't a meaningful part of accessing that information , then I see no point in trying to fit the citation onto that particular <URL> . Occasionally , though , a journal with a particularly zealous and inflexible copyeditor will force me to add page numbers to things that do n't have page numbers , and that is when I use fake page numbers , simply numbering an N-page document as pages 1-N . Bottom line : do n't sweat the page numbers , much less the volume number .
It is possible to get second masters degree in a similar or related field . Doing so might even help with getting into a top PhD program . That said , where you did your master ( s ) degrees is not the key to the kingdom or even the most important thing in your PhD application . Demonstrating that you are smart , hardworking , and excellent at research should be your goal . Another masters from a " better " University might help toward that end but it 's hardly the only or best way . Focus on doing excellent research , publishing that work in excellent scholarly venues in your field , and getting excellent letters of recommendation from people that are known and respected in the field . If you do those things , and if you also have good grades and test scores , you 'll be a strong candidate for any PhD program . I have seen people build that portfolio as an undergrad , in a masters program , as research staff at a university , or even in industry . What you do matters at least as much as where you do it .
The legal issues involved will , of course , depend on what legal jurisdiction you are asking about . However , there are some common factors that can be considered . In the UK many institutions take the interpretation of the Disability Discrimination Act ( DDA ) that teaching staff can not prevent students making private recordings ( Audio or Video ) of any teaching activity . The reasoning is that students are entitled to keep their condition confidential ( as it may be a private medical matter ) but also must be permitted to receive the appropriate adjustment for their condition . It would be expected , as a courtesy , that the student would inform the staff concerned that recording was taking place , but that this could not be enforced . ( * ) Conversely , the Intellectual Property ( IP ) of the class and the material contained therein would be held by the University and the individual teacher to varying degrees . The recording could not be published or used for any means other than private study as this would then violate the rights of the owner of the IP . Many aspects of disability discrimination , privacy and intellectual property legislation is common across many EU states , but there are variations in practice . I can imagine how these different statutes might interact in ( say ) the US , but I suspect it might vary from state to state and not always be a federal matter , and so I decline to speculate . ( * ) I have responsibilities for assisting academic staff understand these issues in my department ...
Honor is doing what 's right when no one is looking . If your institution 's Honor Code requires you to report cheating , I 'd suggest you report the action to your professor or a higher authority . This is good for multiple reasons : You can prevent the cheating student from gaining an unfair advantage over his or her fellow students . If they 're caught ( and punished ) , they might realize their mistake . If you never report the cheating , this student might sail through the rest of the term repeating the same mistake . However make sure the suspected cheater does n't come to know who reported him/her . You can meet the professor after the exam and explain what happened . If you do n't wish to reveal the person 's name , do n't . If you 're not comfortable with talking to a professor about your classmates , you can send an unsigned letter , explaining in detail what happened during the exam and if possible , include some ideas on how to stop them next time . Before you do anything , think of the consequences . What if the other student discovers you 're the one who reported the cheating ? How would you feel if you confronted the cheater directly ? If you ca n't imagine any of these situations , I suggest you let it slide .
" May I submit a paper to another conference that is essentially the same as a paper that is already published or accepted for publication ? " NO * " May I substantially change the content of an accepted conference paper after peer review ? " NO * * Unless it is disclosed to , and permitted by , the PC/editor .
end question
start question
Is the ETH Zurich part of the University of Zurich ?
Some quotes from <URL> : ETH is a federal institute ( i.e. , under direct administration by the Swiss government ) , whereas the University of Zrich is a cantonal institution . [ ... ] In the beginning , both universities were co-located in the buildings of the University of Zrich . [ ... ] Events of the neighboring University of Zrich are well-attended by ETH students and vice versa . [ ... ] The amicable rivalry between ETH and the neighbouring University of Zrich has been cultivated since 1951 [ ... ]
You should read the minimum requirements of the program at the university to which you are applying . Some universities only accept TOEFL , some other only accept IELTS , some universities accept both of these , and some universities accept those certificates like FCE , CAE or CPE as well as TOEFL or IELTS . ( Some other universities also accept the English tests which are designed by themselves . ) I have seen some tables in which the minimum scores of each test is mentioned . For instance a university may accept a 7.0 of IELTS , 100 iBT ( internet based TOEFL ) and an A of FCE . So the only advice I can give you is to check the minimum English language requirements of the university and the program you are applying .
It seems unlikely that a definitive answer would be available unless the site happens to host a member of the journal 's editorial board . However , their publication follows a January - April - July - October pattern . It 's now May , and their last published edition was in January , which means they have missed at least one issue . However , the January 2014 issue also announces a new editor , so they may simply have a disrupted schedule without being " dead " . So I 'd say " Not healthy , but possibly still alive " . Another missed issue in July would be a pretty negative sign . Alternately , you could try contacting the journal to find out ?
what the speaker is seeking by giving such small talks ? One word : exposition . As a rule , the more senior a researcher gets , the less of her/his attention is devoted to writing single research papers . It becomes more central to be known for a specific niche , a specific topic where ( s ) he is the world 's foremost expert . One does not become such a figurehead for a specific niche by writing good papers in the area alone ( although , clearly , this is still required ) . One also needs to be an ambassador for the niche . This includes giving keynotes at conferences , as well as giving seminars and colloquia . Also , who can give such talks Everybody who gets invited by somebody . However , typically , one does not give keynote-level talks before senior postdoc or assistant professor level , simply because most PhD students do not have all too much of a vision going beyond their thesis yet . And , frankly , the keynotes of most postdocs also suck . Like most skills in academia , giving good exposition talks is also a skill that comes with training . ( there are exceptions , of course - I can think of at least one outstanding PhD student in software engineering who was regularly invited to give keynote talks at conferences midway through her dissertation )
The answer depends both on the time period you want to consider and on the fields . Let me try to give a partial answer . Generally speaking , agrgation is indeed a nationwide competitive exam designed to recruit high school and classes prparatoires teachers . For a long time students began preparing for it after 4 years of university study , as it required a matrise . Nowadays , presenting the agrgation requires a master 's degree , but for most students the master would in fact coincide with the competitive exam preparation . The majority of successful candidates will end up being teachers in high school , junior high or ( for a few ) classes prparatoires . In first approximation , the answer to your question is therefore " no " : the agrgation is not primarily designed to select " TA " . However , having the agrgation is not neutral for " TA " positions . Nowadays , for PhD students , it is much easier to obtain a teaching job if you passed the agrgation , as you will be given priority over students who did not . Additionnally , in some fields ( mostly humanities ) it is a requirement to have agrgation before even beginning a PhD ( I am pretty sure there is no official rule to that effect , but an extremely generalized practice ) . So in a way , yes , having the agrgation helps become a TA . Some decades ago ( since your question is about history ) , there was a faculty position called matre assistant , which seems to correspond pretty well to " TA " ( the matre assistant was apparently in charge of making students work in small groups ) and was indeed accessible with agrgation . This position no longer exists : it was merged within the " corps des matres de confrence " , to enter which you need a PhD . Finally , note that in law , political science , economics and management agrgation can play a role very different from what I describe above . As I understand , they are designed to recruit university professors , but I really do not know much about it .
Sure . The IEEE <URL> even includes an example of an author who gives a web URL in the affiliation block : Michael Shell School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta , Georgia 30332 -- 0250 Email : <URL> The variety of examples in the template further make it clear that authors can choose whether or not to include details such as email , web URL , address , telephone number , and fax ( ! ) number in the author affiliation block .
Speaking from epidemiology as a field , with some dabbling in clinical and translational research : Commercially funded research should absolutely show up on your CV ( it does on mine ) , and it probably wo n't hurt you , especially in the early stages of your career . There is however definitely more prestige behind having NIH/NSF etc. funding , or foundation funding - several departments I 've talked to have all said they prefer to see that . NIH funding especially is something of the " brass ring " . Commercial funding is n't bad per se , but a notably dependence on it might have people wondering what is it about your work that is n't passing muster in the traditionally peer-reviewed federal funding system . There 's also some uncomfortableness around conflict of interest - industry-funded science does n't have the best track record in terms of creating unbiased medical research , but they 're also the only people who fund some research , so it will depend very heavily on what specific area you 're in . I 've worked in some areas where it gives people an uncomfortableness , and in others where nearly everyone has industry funding of some sort .
<URL> recently of the most cited papers in Web of Science . At the top , with more than 300k citations , was a methods paper : Protein measurement with the folin phenol reagent . Lowry , O. H. , Rosebrough , N. J. , Farr , A. L. &amp; Randall , R. J. J. Biol . Chem . 193 , 265 -- 275 ( 1951 ) .
I am assuming the two choices are at the same institution . If they are not , choose the higher-ranked institution ( if there is a clear winner ) , because moving forward , name DOES matter ) . That said : You have two currently incompatible , yet not mutually-exclusive motivations : a ) work with someone who is well known in the field b ) work with someone who has closely aligned research interests and , you are concerned about the letter of recommendation , to come later . the correct choice is B . You should work with the faculty member whose research interests closely match yours . Any other decision is to enter into a failing marriage . It is important that you can be excited about what you are doing , and your excitement will in turn excite your mentor , which will pay dividends . THAT SAID , names do matter . If the faculty that matches your interests is junior , you will have to plan ahead to ensure that in addition to his/her glowing recommendation , you also get a letter from the more senior colleague . This is n't impossible , or even difficult . If you are starting grad school , just be open and honest about it . Engage him/her . Go to their lab meetings . Later , when you do your prelim or comp exams , you can invite that person to be on your committee . You 'll get both of best worlds : an advisor that shares your passion and a letter from a big wig . You have to love what you 're doing .
There is often a substantial delay between when the author finishes a paper and when the paper is actually published . The author may not be totally aware of the publishing date . This is why the authors do not include the date . The date is generally found in/on the book/proceedings that the paper is published in . This is the date that should be used for referencing a paper .
Speaking from my experience in Australia -- but I think it holds for most Commonwealth countries . A Bachelor of Arts ( or Science ) is 3 year degree , purely by coursework . Though potentially some coursework units may have large research components . You can get into it based on results from high school or some other tertiary entrance exam . The adding of Honour means the the addition of an extra year , after completion , where you do some coursework , but the focus is on research , you produce somehting which might be called a Honours thesis or similar . Depending on the university , students doing honours may count as post-graduate students , or not ( or somewhere between ) . It may make sense to think of the Honour year as being a separate qualification -- it is often possible ( if unusual ) to get into Honours at a different university to where you completed your bachelors . To get into this Honours pseduo-course , you need to have done well on your units in your bachelors . At the completion your honours results are graded and you get back a result like " 1st Class " , " 2nd Class Division A " , " Second Class Division B " ; There are more classes , but I 've not heard anyone say they have them ( presumably because it does n't sound good to say I have 3rd Class Honours , and/or they do n't stick around in academia . ) . Honours 1st class is considered roughly equivalent to having done a Masters , as far as getting in to a PhD goes . Thus the Honours pseudocourse can be used as a " shortcut " by high achieving students to get into a PhD a year earlier than they would if they did a Masters -- at the cost of a fair bit of stress usually , because a lot of Honours projects are as hard as Masters projects , and they tend to have a lot of coursework at the same time . Away from BA and BS , other undergrad degrees may have " built-in " honours . Bachelors of Engineering tend to have them ( Particularly if the B.E. would make you a accredited engineer , without having to go on and do Masters ) . In these cases Everyone does a research based Bachelors Thesis , but only those who have it graded above a certain cut off , and who meet overall coursework grade cutoffs get awarded a Honours classification , and get Honours on their certificate .
I assume that by course evaluations , this is a narrative faculty evaluation of your performance in a class that you are taking -- and not the case where you are TAing or teaching a course and your students are evaluating you . You can include it but undergraduate and graduate grades are very peripheral to most academic job applications -- except for entry level and post-docs when we have little else to evaluate you by . Even then , their use is fairly deprecated . You 're not going to be taking classes , you 're going to be teaching them . Include them just to be complete .
I will take a somewhat different view from @jakebeal 's answer . The primary question is : when did you work on the paper ? Did you do all of the work while you were a thesis student , and then the paper has slowly made its way through the system ? Or did you actively work on it as part of your new job ? Did you use institutional resources from your new position to do any part of the paper ? If the answer to the latter is no , then you should only list the old institution in the actual affiliations , and then list your new job as a " present address " , if you so choose . If you worked on the paper as part of your new job ( beyond rote submission and minor edits ) , then you should list both workplaces as " active " affiliations .
Every university should have guidelines around how publications can be incorporated into a PhD thesis . The correct advice ( as @Andreas notes ) is to consult these guidelines . Furthermore , it seems that PhD by publication is becoming more popular and guidelines are evolving . I 'm familiar with various models of " PhD by publication " . At my institution in Australia , the PhD student is expected to be first author on any major publication that forms part of a PhD by publication submission . They also need to attach a form for each publication outlining their contribution and the contribution of the other authors . The form needs to be signed by the other authors . Non-first-author publications can be included but they are intended more as supplementary contributions . Exactly what this means is a little open to interpretation . By way of a concrete example , here is an example of such a policy ( the policy at your university may differ ) : It is expected that the student will be the first author on the papers , as per 1 above ; the number of co-authors is limitless . Students may be second or later authors on additional papers . Thus , to answer your specific question , at my institution , a paper could be included in more than one PhD . However , the student who is first author would have a stronger inherent case for it being seen as an integral part of their thesis . Furthermore , the contributions of all authors would have to be explained . You may want to consider practical alternatives such as thinking about how the work could form two papers where you each drive one paper as reflected in being first-author on that paper .
You are correct in that the total time will first of all vary between journals and fields but also slightly over time . I am chief editor of an international journal in the environmental sciences . The time each reviewing editor spends on a paper with our journal can be broken down as follows : Must scan the paper upon receiving it for assigning reviewers ( probably takes an hour , maybe less ) Assign reviewers ( does not take much time but can be drawn out over time when reviewers decline to review ) Read reviews carefully and provide authors with guidelines on what to focus on ( probably takes a few hours ) Carefully check the revisions and decide on the faith of the paper ( takes a couple of hours at least depending on extent of revisions ) If the paper goes to major revisions you need to go through steps 2-4 again If the paper is accepted then spend maybe 15 minutes to half an hour formulating a suggestion for final decision ( depends on what might need to be written ) This can be summed up for one paper as probably more than half a day . Then the question is how many papers you are requested to handle per month/year etc. . You can then easily multiply by the number of papers to get a reasonable idea of the total time you will need to spend . To add to this , you will need to act whenever a paper arrives , so you are expected to be more or less on call all year . Most journals have systems for indicating when editors are away but that only works for assigning new papers ; if you have started the process you will have to see it through ... and keep chasing late reviews and delayed revisions . So although I can not give you an idea of workload , you have some tools to figure out what will be involved . Knowing the number of papers you are expected to handle is the most important statistic to figure out . Then depending on your field , you may have a sense of whether my estimates for scanning and reading materials are reasonable . I am sure they will vary depending on discipline .
LinkedIn certainly has some value , as a general professional networking tool . However , that value has been declining for quite a while and rather rapidly more recently due to various factors , mainly inability ( or lack of care/desire ) of LinkedIn 's management to manage the quality of the community , provide consistent user experience , fix issues and improve features , just to name a few . Whether the recent acquisition of LinkedIn by Microsoft will help LinkedIn to remain a major player in the market and improve its dominance or , vice versa , will enable its stagnation and transform it into Microsoft 's technology - and talent-focused support division , remains to be seen ( I make no bets ) . Having said that , the value of LinkedIn from the academic publishing perspective is quite bleak ( which is a nice way to say " close to zero " ) , in my humble opinion . The following are some of the reasons for my such assessment . Quality / scientific rigor . LinkedIn lacks a peer review process , which means that any published piece there should be taken with many more grains of salt than , if such process would be in place ( not that is expected ) . Relevancy . LinkedIn is not very relevant to academia . LinkedIn 's network of people from academic circles tend to be much less comprehensive than academia 's specialized networks due to some of their colleagues , collaborators , etc. using LinkedIn rarely , if ever , or just not having any presence there at all . Therefore , disseminating scientific information , using LinkedIn , is a much less effective option . Nevertheless , if one has important academic contacts on LinkedIn that are missing from the person 's other networks , it might make sense to publish there a brief post ( similar to an abstract ) with a link to a full-text article ( preferably , a DOI link ) . Information persistence . LinkedIn lacks a mechanism of persistent identifiers ( again , not that we can expect that from a general networking platform ) , which implies lack of guarantee that a link to an article published there will not become broken over time ( which jeopardizes scientific information dissemination ) . P.S. . There is no such term , as " job CV " - I understand what you 're trying to say , but IMHO it sounds pretty bad and , thus , I would recommend against using such word combination in any context . HTH
No , the major goal is to examine the validity , integrity and contribution of the work . Since these can be challenged , causing the work to be rejected or subjected to a major revision , editing at this stage would just be like staining the wood before the carpentry work . Also , at least for me , my mind runs on two different gears when engaged in editing and reviewing . If I have to edit , I can only edit ; if I have to think about the concept , I ca n't edit ... perhaps in my mind editing only happens when the concept is already there . Having said that , there are three areas I always do a full body pat down , once for concept , once for edit : Table : I suggest always comb through the table title , column and row titles , numeric agreement , footnotes , superscripts , etc. . Illustration : Check labels , title , and footnotes . Abstract : Look for typos and point out if a particular sentence appears to be terse or even misleading . The reason for putting the abstract under all lenses is apparent . The reasons for checking the illustration and table are that these are usually the most neglected places in copy editing and revision . And yet , these are the most viewed sections in a paper . Nine out of 10 errors I 've spotted in journal articles are in these two hot spots . In the main text , if there is any sentence that is very grammatically challenged , I cite the page and line in the review , and comment on the need of a rewritten version . If there are typos , I collectively write one separate comment requesting a through spell-checking , and give 2-5 occasions in the article as examples .
It depends . What does your acknowledgement say when you had submitted your application ? If you were told something like " you will be informed your result by XX month/year " and you have not received anything in that regard by that period , then you can write an e-mail to inquire the status of your application . If you were told something like " only successful candidates will be informed by XX month/year " and you have not received anything in that matter , then you can write an e-mail to your contact person to know the status . In any case , you can write email politely to know about your application status if you think it is already too late . There is no harm to inquiring application status .
This is the response I received from my graduate program 's coordinator : It just means physically being here , so does n't have to be on-campus housing .
The fact that you have done your degree either part or full time will not change your degree 's value . I have never heard of part-time degrees being treated differently from full-time degrees . In fact , it would be unusual to list a part-time or full time status on your CV so it 's not clear how people would know . And I doubt many people would react differently . Your decision to do a degree part-time or full-time has other important implications on your long term goals but they are indirect . If you want to go into industry , choosing a part-time degree might mean you have more time to build up industry experience which might be nice . If you want to go into academia -- and you can afford to go to school full time -- do the full time degree because work in industry will only slow you down from the pursuit of your long term goal . Being a part-time student might also mean less attention from faculty who might think you are less serious about an academic track while you are doing the degree .
end question
start question
Where can I learn more about the differences between areas of chemistry at graduate level ?
If you are in the EU , most graduate schools typically prefer you to have a Masters degree before applying for a PhD , it is apparently not so necessary in the US . The Masters is however , important for several reasons : You can see if chemical research is what you really want to do , as most undergraduate programmes have no or very limited opportunity for original research , largely being focussed on equipping you with a set of techniques and skills to enable you to carry out chemical research . I have many friends who were ' all chemistry 'd out ' after their Masters , and left the field completely ( Of my cohort over half are no longer in a chemical field ) . You can try out a field of chemistry in a research environment , either one you have come across during your undergraduate e.g. spectroscopy of small molecules , and enjoyed , or one that only really gets introduced at undergraduate level , if at all e.g. supramolecular chemistry . You can try out a supervisor you are considering working under for a PhD , without the commitment of 3 + years on the line . It demonstrates to a potential supervisor that you are capable of conducting original research to a good standard . Agreeing to take someone on with no prior demonstration of research aptitude is not something many supervisors would do ! PhD programmes can also vary a lot : Some are longer and have a first ' introduction ' year , where they train you in the specific skills you need to complete the programme . This first , often taught year is very similar to the 4th year of an integrated Bachelor + Masters course . Some are just straight research from the start , with an evaluation at the end of the first year , the failure of which prevents you from continuing , and you leave with an M.res or similar . I could go on ... To more directly answer your question , the best way to find out about the differences in day-to-day activity between the different areas of chemistry at PhD level is to try and talk to some current PhD students . If you have completely free reign and no particular interest , I would suggest you aim to talk to students in most of these categories : Physical lots of maths , often boils down to applied physics , in my opinion the least ' chemical ' of these options . Can also overlap with analytical in areas like atmospheric chemistry or kinetics . Analytical ( physical chemistry typically focussing on spectroscopic exploration ) often overlaps with computational ( modelling the behaviour of chemicals on surfaces e.g. catalysts , or the behaviour of proteins and their binding sites , or small molecules as entirely simulated objects , to name a few ) Chemical informatics e.g. developing tools to help statistically analyse chemical behaviours for drug discovery , or to communicate chemical information electronically . Can be a good way into programming with a chemical slant . Synthetic chemistry this comes in many flavours , organic and inorganic , but most are similar on a day to day basis ( see below for exceptions ) Medicinal/natural product synthesis synthetic chemistry but typically much longer hours , often the most internally competitive / ' macho ' culture in the department Materials chemistry this can cover a very wide range of specialisations and include engineering and physics too ; very dependent on the particular programme . Nanoscience is sometimes lumped in here , sometimes in organic and sometimes in inorganic ! In broad strokes , more physical PhDs can require greater discipline , because you do n't have the obvious ' put this reaction on/analyse this intermediate ' type workflow and can spend weeks waiting for computations to run/repairs to a piece of analytical equipment etc. . It is easier to remain emotionally uninvested in the outcome of an experiment , because you are typically trying to find an answer to a question , rather than produce a specific result . By contrast , synthetic PhDs can have moments of soul-crushing defeat when reactions repeatedly fail , frequently requiring a lot of mental fortitude to keep trying things to get a reaction to work/work out a way round it . To summarise , doing a Masters first is a good idea , to ensure you want to go the PhD route and improve the strength of a PhD application . For picking a PhD ( and to a lesser extent , a Masters ) you really need to be able to narrow down your options by some/all of topic , supervisor , location and type of programme . addition from comments : <URL> is a link to information provided by ACS for students looking to find out about graduate courses , should be a good starting point .
About 80-90 % of 10 pages have been copied verbatim from my work . 80 TO 90 % ?! This is a significant amount of content . Even translated , I feel like it demonstrates purposeful intent to plagiarize ( akin to using Word 's auto-summarize feature to summarize an article ) , rather than paraphrasing an amount of text to show a point . Translating word for word , as per my APA link above , with proper citation , for a single point is one thing , but when the bulk of the introduction is someone else 's work , this seems to me as academic misconduct rather than poor use of citations . I mean ... EIGHT TO NINE PAGES . It is literally 8 pages worth of your work , translated , as his introduction . It might as well be YOUR introduction , given how much you 've put in , and someone else translated it . Translated books are still accredited to their original author , with a translator tagged . The way this sounds cited , he 's basically taking credit for what you 've written , citing you as the person who provided information for the idea , as opposed to the person who actually wrote it and facilitated by his translation . Unless he 's cited and mentioned that it 's a direct quote translated after every sentence , this seems like willful plagiarism . I would recommend you talk to the advisers about this issue now that you 've demonstrated the scope of the issue . While you may not have a significant vested interest in the outcome of the situation , the advisers definitely will , and they will likely know how to handle the situation . Also , confronting the student in question is not a good idea . The university awards the degree to the student ( and the degree 's worth is determined by the integrity of how it is awarded ) , so it is probably in the best interest of the university as well to determine the action resulting from something like this .
If I interpreted your question correctly , you 're asking if you can apply for graduate school one year , and , if rejected , re-apply the following year . Unless there are some field-specific norms that I am unaware of , the answer is almost definitely yes . Of course , for you to stand a chance of not being rejected a second time , your application should be significantly improved . In your case , that seems likely , as you 'll have had an extra year of schooling , possibly stronger references , perhaps some research experience . Good luck in any case !
If you 're asking about graduate school in the US , probably the single most significant thing you can do is to take the <URL> ( not the math section of the general test ! ) , and score well on it . This test covers a broad spectrum of material that is taught in a typical undergraduate math curriculum , and so if you get a good score , it strongly supports your claim that you have the level of mathematics knowledge required to enter grad school . Without that key piece of evidence ( i.e. a good GRE subject score ) , graduate admissions committees are likely to look at your statement that you have the knowledge to take graduate courses , contrast it with your lack of an undergraduate degree , and conclude that you 're full of hot air , so to speak . Now , of course there is more that has to be done to actually get yourself admitted . In my own field of theoretical physics , even a 990 ( the top score ) on the GRE is n't enough to get you into a good grad school by itself . I would imagine the same is true for the top schools in math , though perhaps at a less competitive school , it might be . But I think to be safe , you should assume that you 'll have to present some other sort of evidence of accomplishment that could be viewed as equivalent to an undergraduate transcript . You 'll also need recommendation letters and various sorts of essays and forms . But a lot of that can vary from school to school , and is more likely to be negotiable if you talk to someone in the department . The GRE subject score is the one thing you really need to get your foot in the door , so to speak .
MIT 's Open Courseware project has a lot of material of this sort . Here is a link to the <URL> , with courses organized by topic . The depth of the offering will vary from course to course . Some have only syllabi , others have complete video lectures , homework assignments , exams , solutions , etc. . The coverage is quite broad and includes courses in all of the specific classes you have listed .
I do n't think there 's anything " special " that 's unique to applying to academia that a graduate student can do to increase the odds of becoming a professor in the long run , particularly if one is going to do a postdoc later on . The two areas that might help are : Gain teaching experience that goes beyond the standard " recitation section " leader -- that is , into actual lecturing and other forms of direct interaction with students , as well as formulation of assignments and examinations . This might make a difference at schools which are more teaching-oriented rather than research-oriented . Formulate a well-defined scope for your future research activities , and also develop the tentative outlines for the first few projects that you 'd start in that field . This is an essential part of any professorial application , and the sooner you start working on it , the more polished it will be when you 're ready to apply for positions when the time comes . Beyond that , what makes someone a good candidate for a postdoc are essentially the same qualities that will help in being a good candidate for a professorship later on .
I do not understand why you find " weird " putting manuscripts in preparation in your CV . In my field , it is perfectly normal and accepted , and I guess in all academia . This is the best way to explain what you did in the last years . It wo n't be strange at all , especially if you have talks on those results already , as you imply in a comment . These things happen ; sometimes papers take a long time to prepare , and a selection committee should be aware of this fact . It would look much weirder , in my view , if you do n't list them and write a long statement in the cover letter about the lack of publications . As they said in ancient Rome , " he who excuses himself unsolicited , accuses himself " .
I am a scientist working in a company and frequently collaborating with university academics . There is no difference between the papers we write . People at companies are more likely to write more applied papers , and people at universities are more likely to write more theoretical papers , but the distributions are highly overlapping .
At least in my geographic region ( Texas , or the US southern states ) , a professional school implies a curriculum that targets specific skills for a particular vocation . In effect , this is akin to my awkward bastardization of several concepts : " Teach a man to fish and he can become a fisherman ... help him learn how to think and he can pursue a career in whatever he wants . " The former refers to a professional/vocational school . The latter refers to accredited universities with broader range of curriculum missions . Granted , this reflects my biased perspective : admittedly , vocational schools have a ( usually ) noble and useful purpose , but proper universities can offer so much more to enrich the whole student , and potentially brighten the intellectual and career outlook for years to come .
I do n't have the statistics at hand for the case of students . But there was recently a publication of mobility statistics for scientists on 16 countries : <URL> <URL>
Although the term " PhD candidate " is used in both continents , a Ph.D program in the USA comprises of : Master ( 2 years ) + Doctorate ( 3 years ) , meaning it takes at least 5 years , whereas in Europe comprises of just the latter : Doctorate ( 3 years ) . This means that yes , a Master 's degree or something deemed equivalent or superior is required to enter the doctoral course in Europe . The fact that it 's " not required " in the US is an illusion , it 's just because the Master 's is ( sort of ) included IN the Ph. D program . In the end you will get your Ph. D degree at around the same age than students in Europe . If your University in the USA does not deliver a Master 's degree per se , you will have to check with the prospective university in Europe to see whether they will count your research experience ( preferably 1-2 years of lab research after your 4-year Bachelor 's , which you could sum up in something that looks like a Master 's thesis ) as being equivalent or superior to a Master 's degree . I believe it is case by case . Also , please keep in mind that some countries like France require you to have a scholarship or to secure some kind of funding prior to admission to cover your living expenses for the entirety of the Doctorate ( 3 years ) since Ph.D candidates have a status similar to paid staff . The UK is probably one of the only countries in the world where it 's OK to do just a Doctorate ( 3 years ) right after your Bachelor 's ( = if you compare to other countries , you could say it means skipping the 2 years of Master 's ) , however , I do n't think this is highly valued on the international market , unless you managed to end up with the same amount of work and publications than the people who did Master ( 2 years ) + Doctorate ( 3 years ) . / / Speaking for science majors / /
Wikipedia has a <URL> . In essence : the term " polytechnic " comes from the French <URL> . Thus , a university with ' Polytechnic ' in its name is typically one that was influenced in its founding in some way by the French system . Today , however , there is generally no significant difference .
This is an active area of inquiry in US academia , as market research for admissions departments and also as part of the larger investigation into student " success " . Our dean likes to remind us that the main reason for going to college used to be " to get an education " but now it 's " to get a job " ( and thus we need to be more get-a-job focused ) . I do n't actually know which study he 's quoting , but an article out this month seems to support his contention . Twenge and Donnelly have published a retrospective study of students entering college between 1971 and 2014 surveying the students ' reasons for pursuing higher education . From the abstract : Millennials ( in college 2000s -- 2010s ) and Generation X ( 1980s -- 1990s ) valued extrinsic reasons for going to college ( " to make more money " ) more , and anti-extrinsic reasons ( " to gain a general education and appreciation of ideas " ) less than Boomers when they were the same age in the 1960s -- 1970s . ( Twenge , J. M. , &amp; Donnelly , K. ( 2016 ) . Generational differences in American students ' reasons for going to college , 1971 -- 2014 : The rise of extrinsic motives . Journal Of Social Psychology , 156 ( 6 ) , 620-629 . doi :10.1080 / 00224545.2016.1152214 ) Other articles that may be of interest ( by no means an exhaustive list ) : Balloo , K. , Pauli , R. , &amp; Worrell , M. ( 2015 ) . Undergraduates ' personal circumstances , expectations and reasons for attending university . Studies in Higher Education . Advance online publication . doi :10.1080 / 03075079.2015.1099623 Bui , K. V. T. ( 2002 ) . First-generation college students at a four-year university : background characteristics , reasons for pursuing higher education , and first-year experiences . College Student Journal , 36 ( 1 ) . 3 + . Kennett , D. J. , Reed , M. J. , &amp; Lam , D. ( 2011 ) . The Importance of Directly Asking Students Their Reasons for Attending Higher Education . Issues in Educational Research , 21 ( 1 ) 65-74 . Kennett , D. J. , Reed , M. J. , &amp; Stuart A. S. ( 2013 ) . The impact of reasons for attending university on academic resourcefulness and adjustment . Active Learning in Higher Education , 14 ( 2 ) . First published on June 10 , 2015 . doi :10.1177 / 1469787415589626 Phinney , J. S. ; Dennis , J. ; Osorio , S. ( 2006 ) . Reasons to attend college among ethnically diverse college students . Cultural Diversity and Ethnic Minority Psychology , 12 ( 2 ) .347 -366 . doi : 10.1037 / 1099-9809 .12.2.347 Schultz , J. , &amp; Higbee , J. ( 2007 ) . Reasons for Attending College : The Student Point of View . Research and Teaching in Developmental Education , 23 ( 2 ) , 69-76 .
I think most researchers want to influence and possibly work in different areas , but we ca n't all be revolutionaries in several fields . There are two opposing issues that one needs to balance at any stage of academia ( or that pesky thing called life ) : Doing anything significant usually takes real time and effort Each individual has limited resources , such as time and effort As research has progressed over the past centuries things have gotten more specialized and there indeed has been a necessary tendency for researchers to focus on more and more narrow aspects of science . However , the branches of science are highly interconnected , and fundamental work in one area often has ramifications in many areas ( which the original research may or may not be involved with ) . Recently , there has been more emphasis on interdisciplinary research , which it sounds like the kind of thing you are interested in . So this opportunity is certainly available for researchers who are interested . However , interdisciplinary research is easier with certain specialities than others . ( If you run a lab with lots of specialized equipment , you will be limited by the capabilities of the equipment . ) For instance , interdisciplinary work seems to be pretty common with people who do mathematical biology , or more generally applied math/statistics . They often collaborate with different specialists in different fields/subfields who want to apply mathematical techniques/models to their problems , and in the process learn something about that particular subfield . My suggestion , if you want to go this direction , is look for an advisor in graduate school who does ( and if possible , whose students do ) interdisciplinary research that you find exciting . Another way to influence people in different areas is through teaching , giving lectures and writing textbooks . Yet another way is by working for a grant agency or as a policy advisor , to help decide what research gets funded . Working for a scientific publishing company , as you mention , is also a possiblity , but journal editors are professional researchers . Similarly , university administration is run by professors . Thus there are many options , but these typically require specialized knowledge , so the preparation is the same as becoming a researcher .
An extended journal version might well combine multiple input papers , though this is somewhat unusual . In general if somebody was an author on one of the papers that is a source , then they should be an author on the composite . The only exception that I can think of is if the resulting composite paper drops sections from some of the inputs , and certain authors had only been involved in those sections . Again , this would seem to be a rather unusual situation , though plausible .
Well ... I am not an entirely mentally normal person so take my suggestion with a lot of salt . The damage is already done , and you probably can not do too much on her side . Your side , though , can be fixed . If it bothers you enough to make a new account and ask this question , you probably do care , right ? This is how I will approach it : Before the meeting , prepare a thank you card and/or perhaps some little snacks/gifts ( chocolate usually work , as long as she is not diabetic Other choices are small office plants , coupon to a nearby restaurant , etc. ) Go to meet with her and act as if none of these had happened . If she confronts you , apologize and emphasize that the experience made you feel very bad as well . Remember to emphasize the feeling . Depending on the outcome , if she confronts , then talking about PhD project is probably a bad idea . Leave the gifts and thank you card , and tell her that " I fully understand why you are upset , I hope you can give me another chance to talk about this in another time . I 'll be outside in the lab if you need to talk to me . " If she does not confront you , then go ahead and talk about the PhD project . Pay attention to it , because it may actually be things you spend a few years on . When it 's all set , regardless of the outcome , give her the thank you card and the gifts . No need to mention your stupid chat . Just say something like " Just my thanks to your constant help through my Masters studies , and I look forward to working with you as a PhD candidate . " Or if you 're unlucky " Just my thanks to your help through my Masters studies , I learned a lot and I hope these little gifts will make up for all the hard times I caused you . " If she talks to you about the PhD , then she has forgiven you ( unless she is a psycho who has decided to torment you . ) If she decides not to and withdraws the offer , your thank you gift will also work . Either way , you 'll have a chance to express your thanks , and that probably can help you feel better about your mishap . And please be professional in the future . Badmouthing is a really bad habit .
In my experience it is quite common for universities at all levels to advertise positions in this way so that they can hire someone at the associate professor level if there is a strong candidate with appropriate experience . I 've been involved in many searches that were advertised in this way . In my experience most of these positions end up getting filled at the assistant professor level anyway .
First , you can always research anything you want on your own time and your own money . Thus , I assume that your question boils down to what range of research topics will I be able to get paid for ? That depends heavily on : Your level of ability . If you are sufficiently outstanding you can get awards that will fund you to research whatever you want at almost any career stage . For instance , grad students who have , say , a government fellowship ( in the US these are things like NSF , or DOE CSGF ) are often given a lot more leeway to pursue their own research agenda . But such fellowships are rare and highly competitive . What 's more , almost any professor will be willing to take such a student . At the other end of the pool , if you are a relatively weak student it may be difficult to even find an advisor , and when you do they will probably require you to follow their research plan . Similarly , a young professor who gets a CAREER award can more easily follow their interests . Your communication skills . If you can give persuasive presentations and write excellent grant proposals , you will be able to obtain more funding for the projects that interest you and therefore be free to work on them . You may also be able to buy yourself out of teaching responsibilities and so spend more time on research . Of course , this is intertwined with # 1 above . The nature of the research itself . In experimental or observational areas , you need to buy equipment . If you want to study gravitational waves ( observationally ) , you will need a lot of money -- or collaborators with a lot of money -- to get started . Finally , let 's talk about career stage . The three factors above are operative at every career stage . There are brilliant grad students who can work on just what they want because of their talent , and there are tenured professors who can hardly do research at all because they are required to spend nearly all their time teaching ( this may also be a choice -- research is not the top priority for everyone ) . That said , on average your freedom to direct your own research increases at each successive stage . The " restrictions " at each stage are well illustrated by the comic linked in the comments above .
This is the response I received from my graduate program 's coordinator : It just means physically being here , so does n't have to be on-campus housing .
The IEEE makes their ' Taxonomy ' available <URL> ( linked to in their Author FAQ under the Publications page ) , but this is only a hierarchical list without the designations you have given to identify something as the C.2.1.h topic . Surprisingly ( to me ) , neither the author kit nor the editorial manual discuss this hierarchy . In contrast , for the American Institute of Physics , the PACS codes are available on-line at <URL> .
end question
start question
How can I signal that I do n't intend to follow up the items in my " Future Work " section ?
I 've never heard this about " Future Work " . Items that you put in this section are simply things that you are currently considering , and someone else who does them should at least cite your original work . However , anyone who beats you to actually doing the work should be able to publish it . If you want to make it absolutely clear that you do not intend to work on this material ( and , you never know , you might end up going back to it later anyway ! ) , simply call the section " Further discussion " or just " Discussion " .
You should look for faculty working in the field that you are interested in researching , and then pitch your research idea directly to them . Make sure that you do a good job with a preliminary review of the literature for your idea and understand the professor 's specific research interests , so that your letter does not sound like any of the hundreds of mail-merge messages that professors get every week . If your idea is really worthwhile and you do a good targeted job of pitching it , changes are that someone will agree to work with you on it . However , the reality is that most students come into a PhD without a really good sense of existing literature or the feasibility of their ideas . It is for this reason that there is great value in being open-minded about your PhD thesis . Many students make the mistake of thinking that the PhD should be the pinnacle of their career , solving some grand problem in human existence . This might happen for a few figures in history , but , more typically , the PhD is the start of a research career and not the end of it .
I 've encountered this situation recently . My personal strategy has worked well on multiple occasion . Send back the first e-mail with a beginning similar to this ( I suggest you adapt it ) : Dear Dr Smith , I 'm afraid my precedent e-mail arrived in your junk mail . Just in case , here it is again . Thank you very much for your attention . Edit : I do n't resend an e-mail after only a week . I usually wait 2-3 weeks ... even more !
Regardless of whether it is homework or any other sort of technical document , the correct date to put on a technical document is the date of its most recent revision . If the history is important , other dates can be added as well ( e.g. the submitted/revised/accepted dates on some journal papers ) . As for your professors never saying anything ... they likely had no reason or even ability to discriminate between the different systems you used to date , and it likely did not matter for the purposes of the class .
Yes , it can be mentioned . I would put a category on your CV titled " service to the profession . " In that section , mention the year and the name of the journal that asked you to referee . It 's not a major point , but it shows that you 're willing to be a team player and help out the journal . That speaks both to your professionalism and to the fact that the editor trusted your judgment .
" While normally as a graduate I should be very thankful and jump on this , I simply can not do the work asked due to time and I believe there would be a more suitable candidate for the work . " That is more or less exactly what you should say . Express your gratitude to Professor A . If you have a major academic obligation taking up your time , like comprehensive exams or something , mention that . Do NOT CC the candidates you have in mind , but do mention to Professor B that you can recommend someone else who you think would be a good fit .
Disclaimer : This is somewhat field-dependent . I 'm answering based on what I believe to be the current situation in computer science / related fields . 1 ) Can you claim authorship given the way things have evolved ? Probably not . 2 ) Would it have been a good idea for him to find a way to include you in the research collaboration so that you could get something out of your work ? Yes . The area of academia in which I work ( * ) is structured so as to value ideas over implementation . In practice , that means that it 's not uncommon for people who write large amounts of code for a project to get little credit for it , which seems inherently unjust . The way sensible people usually handle this is to make sure that people who do a lot of implementation work are given an opportunity to contribute scientifically over and above that - that allows them to justify their authorship in scientific terms , regardless of the fact that they also made significant non-scientific contributions to the overall project . It 's certainly possible to take advantage of implementers by not doing this , but people who do that tend to find themselves doing the implementation work themselves . Bottom line : He should have had the common sense to include you in the scientific collaboration , and if he did n't have that common sense then his supervisor should have suggested it . As an aside , I would view the situation somewhat differently if you already had a publication as a result of your work . In that case , you 've already got the credit for working on the framework , and there 's less of a moral obligation to include you in the new collaboration : instead , they can simply cite you . I 'm certainly not of the view that writing a framework entitles you to be involved in every paper that is ever built on top of that framework - indeed , I 've written frameworks that other people have continued to use for later research , and I would n't expect to be involved with the papers in question . ( * ) As pointed out in the comments , this may not be the case in other fields .
In the US , various funding agencies ( NSF , NIH , DOE , ... ) have fellowships you can apply to for predoctoral students . They tend to be very competitive compared to internal sources ( Teaching Assistantships , Research Assistantships , Graduate Assistantships ) , but they may offer a higher stipend . Depending on your field , professional societies also offer fellowships : American heart association , Whitaker foundation , Gates foundation . Industry also offers some in association with various schools : Siemens , Raytheon , Johnson &amp; Johnson .
Read <URL> and <URL> . My professor put forth 3 simple rules for networking : Talk to the guy beside you Talk to top 3 ( sort by relevance or whatever you prefer ) presenters Mail them 5 days after the conference with some follow up content ( questions/comments/invites for talks etc. ) Just to make this post " dead-link " proof , I present a gist of the content in the above links . Start Early . You should begin preparing before the conference starts . Start reading on who will be there , emailing people you want to meet , and determining which events you will attend . You may want to contact the speakers whose talks you will be attending before the conference ; try to set up a meeting , or if they are too busy , at least meet them and give them your business card . Bring Business Cards . Make sure they 're up-to-date and details your preferred mode of communication . Research people and get involved in their networks . If a certain professor is giving a talk ; read his previous research papers , frame interesting questions and get an excuse to meet him . If you do meet him , exploit the opportunity to interact with his peers and try to enter their network . Sometimes , this is the only way of getting to network with someone . I know of professors who refuse to take students for PhD or internships or Postdocs without a recommendation from someone in his network . A good impression might just get you that recommendation . Note people with similar interests to yours . These people will be attending all the same presentations as you , talking to the same people , discussing similar topics . They are the potential spots for networking . Prepare the elevator speech . A common question will be " So , what is your research about ? " Make sure you have an answer for every audience . For e.g. . If you are in Computational Science , the answer may vary depending on who you are talking with . Plus , make it interesting and digestible . Organize an event of your own . This is especially useful is forming " lower " networks i.e. networks of people who lag in terms of age or experience such as graduate students . If not more , they could notify you of openings or interesting papers or whatever . They could be useful . ( Plus it helps us :P ) Read " <URL> " . Follow Up . Prepare for this even before you leave for the conference . Have different modes of follow up ready . Will you have anything to say that is worth writing an email for ? If not , think of something which will . If nothing works , make sure you click a photo of yourself with him and send it to him a few days after the conference .
Although I do n't want to say what you should or should not write , this is my suggestion . There is a difference between a Masters by Coursework and Masters by Research , as in the latter you most likely will be asked to provide a new contribution to science , while for the former you will most likely ' simply ' extend your knowledge through subjects . Knowing it 's an application for Masters by Research , I suggest reading up on the research you 're interested in , mention why you 're interested in it and how you can contribute to that field . I think the reviewers are more interested in your enthusiasm and how you can contribute . Mentioning that you 're willing to take credits is a sign that you 're afraid of not knowing enough , and could be a sign for reviewers that you 're not confident . On the other hand , it does show that you know your limitations - but when you decide to mention it , do n't make it the main item of your letter . In the research field however the learning does not always happen through subjects , it most often occurs through literature review . Although subjects are very beneficial if exactly in the area of research , I think that it 's sufficient to demonstrate that you are capable of working in the field of study .
Certainly this is appropriate , especially if you indicate who you are and why you are interested . Researchers are interested in spreading their results far and wide to get citations . The worst that can happen is that the research is not yet quite publication-ready , and the author prefers not to share it yet , to avoid academic claim-jumping . If so , you may get exactly this explanation , or no answer at all . The best , conversely , would be that this could actually lead to a fruitful discussion and/or even collaboration .
There are three distinct levels of credit that the former postdoc might be given , depending on their level of contribution to each particular new publication . In order of increasing significance , these are : Citation . The postdoc has done significant prior work for these papers , and so clearly this prior work must be cited . Acknowledgement . If the postdoc contributed materially to the new paper , but not enough to merit authorship , then acknowledgement is the typical compromise " middle ground . " Authorship ( though not in one of the " privileged positions " such as first author or last author , if they are held significant in the particular subfield ) . The boundary between citation and acknowledgement is usually pretty straightforward : did the individual make any contribution that significantly aided the new work beyond providing nice , clear explanations of the content of their publications ? If not , then merely citing should be sufficient . The boundary between acknowledgement and authorship is extremely field dependent , and moreover often affected strongly by the subfield . With ethical and trusted colleagues , the best way to navigate this question is often simply to have an open discussion together about where and how to draw this boundary .
If you have just submitted the paper , chances are you have n't given the rights over to the committee . As long as you have n't agreed to some terms and conditions that gives temporary ownership to the conference , then you should still have ownership of the paper and can do what you want with it . If you want to be doubly sure , a short email to the conference proceedings editor can erase any doubt you may have .
Most organizations that have set requirements for applications refuse to look at any supplementary materials that are submitted in order to be fair to those who did not submit supplementary materials . The National Science Foundation , in many cases , reserves the right to return proposals without review that have certain kinds of unrequested or forbidden supplementary materials . I think it 's best to only submit what was asked for .
The professor encouraged you to apply -- so that 's what he expects you to do next . It is nothing wrong in your attempt to establish a more substantial connection with him and to promote yourself in his eyes , it increases your chances to get selected . However , imagine that at the same time there are probably 100 + other candidates , trying to do exactly the same -- sending him several smart research questions , involving him in some discussion , and expecting to chat over Skype with him in a few days . How would you feel in his shoes ? Of course , professors want to be available for their potential PhD students , TAs and colleagues , and of course , they want to participate in the selection process . But many of them do not want to carry out all the communication themselves -- that 's what secretariat , admissions , and HRs are for ! I assume there is a formal route to submit your application , and I suggest exactly what your professor suggested -- prepare your application and submit as instructed . If in a meantime you receive a message from him -- go forth and suggest a Skype meeting . If not -- assume that the professor is busy , and submit your application before the deadline anyway .
No , it is not acceptable . You can of course email the organisers and ask if you can participate without paying , but do not be surprised if they say no . ( Please note that conference registration fees cover lots of things besides the lunch . Among others , conference registration fees may cover the rent of the hall in which you are sitting , and expenses related to the speaker who is giving the talk . Conference organisers are definitely not expecting random people to come there without registering , unless they explicitly advertise this possibility . )
One may prove their knowledge by these aspects . They may have a certificate of the courses they have passed . They may have a publication or patent registration in the field of their personal studies . They may have worked in the field of their knowledge and their projects and portfolio is a proof of their knowledge . A website designer may not have any certification of their design knowledge , but the websites they have designed are the proof of their knowledge . You may have done voluntary/paid teaching at your undergraduate university or in an educational institute , so you have the certification of your teaching activity and that may be counted as a proof of your teaching and your knowledge . ( Also teaching/research assistantships to a course which you have never passed but you did assistantship in that area . ) You may have some publications in the area of your knowledge , for instance , a published paper or book ; or a contribution to a publication which is so related to your knowledge . You may have done some jobs related to your knowledge . An engineering design , done some code-developing , etc. . You may have a recommendation letter from a professor in which has written that you have sit in their class for that course , but you have never registered for the course ; so it proves that you have the knowledge of the course . However , as far as you are registering for a graduate program , you must fulfill their requirements not what is generally/logically reasonable or what seems to be acceptable . So it is better to provide all your proofs in your CV or their application process website and let them ask you for more official documents . Also , you can email them and ask for your special issue . P.S. . It seems that your question indicates self-study knowledge , but some people may have done some non-degree programs and certificates of those courses may also prove their knowledge in the course .
You want your reader to be able to figure out what 's in the paper without reading through all the technical details , and then going through the trouble of synthesizing what you 've written to figure out the what the paper means . If you want your paper to have any impact at all , you need to put an executive summary somewhere in it . Whether you put all the details of the summary at the end of the introduction , or put a less detailed summary in the introduction , and expand on the details at the beginning of each section may depend on the author and/or the field . It may be that in your field , people expect summaries at the end/beginning of each section , and will look for them there . But if you 're careful about what you say and how you say it , you do n't need to repeat details from the introduction at the beginnings of the section , so putting the summaries at the beginning/end of the sections should n't use much extra space .
Asking your advisor , as suggested by @NateEldredge , is a good first step and many advisors will be able to help you . In some cases , though , your advisor may be unfamiliar , may just not publish much any more ( that was the case for my advisor ) , or may not be able to effectively help for other reasons . If this is the case , then I would suggest two other methods for figuring out where to send your papers : Look at the papers that have been published in previous years , and see how their scope and quality compares to yours . Aim high , and see what kind of feedback you get back from the reviewers . The worst that happens is that they reject your paper .
I would not mention this no , this should not have any consequence to the students application , it may be a little out of place . It would be worth advising the student to inform any future places of study about his handwriting he may be able to get some alternate support with regard to exams . I would not see this student as a liability , just maybe needing a little extra support in this area , it is fair for an examiner to not spend ages marking one students paper due to bad handwriting , so long as they give it a fair go and a good effort .
end question
start question
What does a PhD Committee do ?
At least in the US , a Ph.D committee will have 4-5 members , and there are rules about the composition of the committee ( there might need to be at least one person from an external institution , and at least one person from a different department , or variations thereof ) . The committee 's formal job is to assess the Ph.D student 's dissertation proposal , determine that the work being proposed is sufficient for a dissertation , and then evaluate the final dissertation defense and decide whether to grant the student a Ph.D or not . Informally , a Ph.D committee provides a set of resources/expertise for the student to tap into for advice , research directions and even contacts for future work ( yes , there 's life after a Ph.D :) ) . There 's <URL> on how to choose your committee .
Contribution to knowledge means creating new knowledge based on the previous available knowledge by doing extensive and innovative research . Look up this related illustrative post by <URL> on what is a PhD . And for the said MS student , he should get his degree without any problem , because he showed a new &amp; original application of the CS algorithm in a new field . Hence , new knowledge generated .
As a general rule , my PhD students need to do two things to get a PhD : Publish 3-4 papers on a coherent topic , mostly in top-tier theoretical computer science conferences , including at least one paper without me as a co-author ( and preferably at least one paper that was previously rejected ) . Jump a bunch of administrative hurdles : do n't screw up classes , do n't screw up TAing , pass quals , gather a committee , propose a thesis , write a thesis , defend a thesis . That 's it . In my experience , most PhD students do way more than this . A couple of comments on the original question : Very few students " finish " their thesis topic . Equivalently : If a research question can be closed in just one or two papers , it 's probably not a good thesis topic . Good research opens as many new problems as it solves . Reaching the point where further collaboration with a student is unproductive means the student-advisor relationship has failed . Sometimes students really do exhaust their research potential , despite their advisors ' efforts ; in my experience , those students usually do n't get PhDs . ( Most successful students reach " critical mass " long before they finish . ) More often , this happens because the advisor is n't giving the student enough appropriate guidance .
The top universities often have a lot of reasonably obscure funding options . For example with the University of Cambridge - if you go through the steps at <URL> they list all their funding options , you 'll see for Physics there are fully-funded scholarships such as these that might be of interest to you : Leslie Wilson Research Scholarship ( # 17,427 per year ) Winton Scholarship ( s ) in the Physics of Sustainability Thalmann Bequest ( covers EU fees only ) Schiff Fund ( upto # 20,000 per year ) Gulbenkian Studentship ( specifically for non-UK nationals ) <URL> The equivalent website for the University of Oxford is <URL> and it reckons 35 Scholarships were found for a new student from Belgium studying Theoretical Physics ( DPhil ) so I 'm not going to list them all here !!! Best of luck !
In the American style , at least , your acknowledgements are yours to do with what you like . Other answers on this site include <URL> or <URL> . Thus , if you feel thankful to the members of your committee , you should feel free to thank them in your acknowledgements section .
This is normal practice these days at universities . In the old days , doctoral students could drift away from their program mid-stream and people would n't really care . They might return after 20 years to submit their dissertation , but otherwise there was no attempt to track these zombie students down . Unfortunately , many places are now using average time-to-degree ( TTD ) as metrics to a graduate program 's quality ( purportedly a lower TTD is better ) . Zombie students are problematic as you can have someone who is 15 years into a program without graduating , dragging the average up . Note that there is a difference between a nominal TTD and actual TTDs -- for example , in my old university the nominal TTD was 5 years but very few people actually graduated in that time , the average was closer to 6.5 years . In my experience , provosts are asking departments to track the zombies down and determine whether they should be terminated or not . Being terminated is n't a bad thing , it means that you will be left with your last degree ( e.g. , M.Phil ) and you should n't really call yourself ABD as you wo n't be permitted to submit . I 've been through a few of these cullings and as faculty I think they are a good thing as zombie students on the books really help no one . If you have any hope of submitting , I would ask that you be given some time ( 1 year would be reasonable ) to submit . Otherwise , I would take your MA/M . Phil and be happy with it . I do n't think there are any negatives for a career in industry . Again , you technically should n't call yourself ABD ( rather you " withdrew from program after meeting all qualifications for the doctorate but the dissertation " ) but I really do n't think anyone is going to check . Think of it as a general discharge , under honorable conditions .
In most places I know ( Europe mostly , France and UK in particular ) , a Master 's degree is nothing more than a tiny blip on your CV by the time you have a successful PhD ( diploma , publication , good recommendations , involved in your community , ... ) . Your lack of a Master 's degree will not hurt one bit ( but it probably will come up in an interview , so you want to have something decent or funny to say about it ) . I suspect the same will be true in most places : by the time you are a post-doc , Master 's degree is not a good predictor of your future success . Regarding age , it 's a very good question , and should probably be separate . As a post-doc , it should n't hurt your chances ( I defended my PhD at the same age you are , so I have given it some thought ! ) . For a staff position , things are very different .
The link that you provide explains it fairly clearly for that academic community . They have chosen to organize training in reviewing and conference organization by setting up a group that does the same work as the real program committee . The shadow group 's work , however , is done only for training purposes and does not affect the actual decisions on papers . This is similar to a <URL> or <URL> in the legal arena : a chance to do " the real thing " without doing real damage if one screws up . It both gives practice and helps the main organizers identify people who are ready to be brought onto the real program committee . This is not a widespread mechanism in the scientific , however , so other communities may not mean the same thing if they use the same words .
Nomen nominandum , " a name to be named " - if you do n't know the person 's name yet , this indicates that you will supply the name later . Which sounds a bit more reassuring than a simple nomen nescio , " I do n't know the name " .
Most central European universities do n't traditionally have QEs . However , it seems to me as if it is getting more popular to have something after the first one or two years of your programme . Two data points : In my current university , PhD students need to defend their thesis proposal after ( maximum ) two years . This includes writing their proposal , receiving written comments by two other ( i.e. , not their advisor ) professors of the faculty , and presenting and defending their proposal in front of the entire faculty ( our faculty is pretty small ) . Questions are asked in this defense , but not typically about material that is not directly linked to the proposal . In theory students can fail at this step , but is is very uncommon . The goal is rather to force students ( and advisors ) to have a clear goal of where the thesis is going early on , something that was historically a bit of a problem . When I did my PhD , we did not really have any sort of entry exam or defense in my alma mater . However , since then , they have switched to a model not unlike what I explained above . The main difference is that proposals are only presented ( there is no written document ) , and that only a small committee is responsible for giving feedback on the proposal ( not the entire faculty ) . This defense has to be taken one year after start of the PhD . Failing this defense is again very uncommon . Summary : the places I am well aware of do n't have stressful QEs . Instead , we traditionally had pretty much nothing . Nowadays , many places have a proposal defense instead of a QE , but this is not a step that students typically have to be stressed out about .
In theoretical computer science conferences ( which often use EasyChair ) , I have seen the following practices : Once all reviews are in , PC chairs often encourage all PC members to comment on all papers on which they have something useful to say . Sometimes the comments are just discussion that may influence the final decision in borderline cases . Sometimes the assigned reviewers modify their reviews based on the comments ( e.g. , they realised that they overlooked some important point ) . Sometimes the PC chairs ask some of the assigned reviewers to incorporate the comments in their reviews . Sometimes the PC chairs ask non-reviewers to convert their comments to ( short ) reviews .
The answer is strongly conditional on discipline and , to a lesser extent , country of origin . Conventions vary widely , as does the degree to which they are institutionalized . For instance , in some fields ( e.g. , Philosophy ) , co-authorship is not common and there is no convention about attribution , so absent an explicit note people are are likely to think the more senior author is the primary one . In Sociology , co-authorship is common and the convention is that the first author is the lead author unless there is a note indicating equal authorship . In Economics , co-authorship has become increasingly common over the past few decades but the convention is to list authors alphabetically , regardless of degree of contribution . In some fields the primary author may be determined by looking to see if there 's a note specifying to whom correspondence should be directed , regardless of order of authorship on the paper . Meanwhile in many lab-based science disciplines , where it 's sole authorship that 's rare , author order is governed by different norms . In some fields , the first author is the one who is primarily responsible for the paper ( what that means can vary , too ) , the last author is the lab head or primary grant-holder , and the order of authors in between is sometimes influenced by other norms . But other conventions exist , too . Knowing what they are and how to interpret them is part of one 's socialization into a discipline . To make things more complicated , some fields -- or some journals , or some labs , or some individual authors -- may have their own rules or conventions designed to clarify things by listing credit more explicitly . Even worse , there may be a kind of hermeneutics of author-order where people parcel out credit to different contributors regardless of order of authorship , as when someone says " Sure , X is the first author and Y helped him write it up but it 's obvious the paper was Z 's idea " . In your case , if your lab or unit is using a convention that 's not standard in your field the most straightforward solution is to make a note of this in your articles . This is n't an ideal solution because papers will still be cited or referenced without people paying attention to your clarifying note , but there is n't much you can do about that .
Research is not just the most important aspect of any PhD program worth the name ; it 's the entire point . Everything you do as part of the program ( teaching duties aside ) is to prepare you for a career as a researcher . So getting a PhD without any intention of putting this research training to use would be like spending years as a baking apprentice without any intention of becoming a baker : maybe not a complete waste if you really like baking ( but not enough to make it a career ? ) , but almost inarguably not the best use of your time . Lots of people get PhDs and do n't become researchers , but if these people had known beforehand what industry they would end up in , odds are they could have gotten a better jump start on their career by getting a Master 's degree focused on that industry and entering the workforce after one or two years ( rather than 5 + for the PhD ) . There are exceptions to this principle , but they are relatively uncommon , and usually involve industry jobs that somewhat resemble research anyway . I can think of only two other justifications for getting a PhD : learning for learning 's sake , and prestige . The former is a noble goal , but if all you want to do is learn without contributing to the body of knowledge in your field , this is contrary to the spirit of ( good ) PhD programs as stated above . Furthermore , you can learn all you want in your free time without entering a PhD program . Find out what the standard graduate-level textbooks are in your field , and work through them . If your knowledge gets up to the research level in a particular topic , you can start reading recent research articles . ( Your local library will likely have access . ) As for prestige , this may be subjective , but spending five years of your life for a piece of paper is unlikely to be satisfying in the long run . And , speaking as someone who has a PhD , you 'll soon learn that most people will not really want to address you as " Doctor . " Having said all that , if you do like ( or think you would like ) research , but are put off solely by the expected competition and stress , I urge you to be more open-minded . Academia is certainly competitive and stressful , but so are most careers worth having .
Short answer : they are two different ( but overlapping ) subjects . Medium answer : Applied math is a broad term that can mean anything from mathematical physics to machine learning to cryptography to numerical analysis to biostatistics to ... the list goes on . And it can mean different things at different universities/departments . There is plenty of applied math that does n't involve statistics . I would go as far as to say that less than half of applied math involves statistics , although the prevalence of statistics is growing . And even though , philosophically speaking , statistics may be a form of applied mathematics , there are plenty of subjects within statistics that are not what people usually refer to as applied math .
It could be either , but it usually goes back to the reviewers that requested the major modifications . Whoever the editor sent it to , it means that it is being reviewed again in full .
There are a lot of reasons why a professor may publish a paper without co-authors : ( 1 ) he did the research by himself and wanted it to get all the credit for that research instead of sharing it with some co-authors that he could have invited on his paper , ( 2 ) he did not have students , ( 3 ) he does not have good social skills or his project appear uninteresting to others and thus he could not find collaborators ... In general , it is beneficial to have collaborators . They have different ideas which can improve the quality of the paper , and they can help carrying the reearch and writting and thus reduce the amount of work by the main author . Thus the main author can then do more research . Some researchers will see it as a negative point if an author has too many papers by himself and do not collaborate .
There are some general guidelines for choosing members of a PhD committee : They should have some enthusiasm for the work that you do . If they 're not invested in seeing you succeed , you wo n't get as much utility out of that committee member as someone else who might not be as knowledgeable , but is more committed . They should have the time to be on your committee . If they 're extremely busy , then it does n't help to have them on a committee , because it will be difficult for them to attend the meetings -- or it will make scheduling the meetings a nightmare . They should not have conflicts with either you or your advisor . A thesis committee is already a somewhat political body . There 's no need to add extra politics to the situation by having interpersonal or professional conflicts before the committee even begins to meet ! Collectively , there should not be a power " imbalance . " If your advisor is a new assistant professor , do n't overload the committee with a bunch of full professors holding named chairs , and vice versa . When they will set preliminary exams , there 's the additional qualification of : The committee members should be familiar enough with your area that they know what it might make sense to test you on , but not so familiar with your work that they turn it into a " gotcha " game .
I think the variations here are national rather than by discipline . In the U.S. , the thesis committee 's primary role is that of a review panel when all is going well , and as a neutral arbiter between student and advisor when it is n't . Again , there is no formal obligation on the part of the committee -- except when convened by the student or advisor , but this typically occurs on a more frequent basis ( every one to two years or so ) . As individuals , however , committee members may be consulted with on various topics ( job placement and career strategies , suggestions for future research directions , and so on ) ; however , this is voluntary and , again , not very frequent -- probably one or two times per year . In Germany , by comparison , the primary obligation occurs at the time of the thesis defense , when they serve as evaluators . Outside of this , you might never meet with the professors on your committee , other than your primary advisor .
A number of people have correctly told you ( I can see the article ) that this is a collection of mathematical puzzles , rather than a research paper . So let me tell you a little more about this type of article . Martin Gardner is considered by many to be the biggest popularizer of recreational mathematics in the 20th century ( perhaps ever ) . For 25 years ( 1956-1981 ) , he wrote a column for Scientific American called <URL> . Many of his columns have been collected into books ( such as <URL> ) . Some other well-known examples of similar writing include that of <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> .
First a disclaimer : I personally do not agree with some " ways of life " I am going to describe and already upvoted other answers :-) . is it possible to be a researcher without concerning about " Publish or perish " ? YES , albeit probably only in atypical settings . firstly , at this site , we tend to forget that academia is not only the first league of the few top-notch research universities , but includes a MASS of smaller universities and research institutes in all sorts of small , hidden corners of the world which tend either not to produce academic output in terms of journal articles , books , conference papers , etc. , but at which they live and breath by e.g. , primarily education , local politics , etc. . Yet , on paper they claim to do research , so working there , you would be officially a researcher . I am speaking for instance about universities in countries , where rigorous science and high education , for whatever reasons , does not have a very strong tradition . At such places , doing research would resemble a kind of a <URL> . Most often , at least at some stage in the career , you still need to publish something . E.g. a dissertation would probably suffice . But often an interview with such a researcher in a local newspaper would count at the place more than a first-class academic journal . Being coined an expert on X by the local media a single time would allow you to survive at such a university for a decade ( at any level from a PhD student to a Full Professor ) without being concerned with perishing . If there is a desperate lack of teaching staff , then you do not have to care even for being any good teacher either and you would n't perish . I know personally people who are are doing some research ( or at least everybody around says so ) for decades without moving from a place and without publishing even a technical report and do not perish . to a more optimistic note , though being pedantic now , you can easily be a researcher and not publish in the industry . Many industrial researchers do not primarily work for the benefit of the humankind ( as you could see said in academia ) , but for the benefit of a company . finally , I speculate there could be some special professorship positions where you do not have to worry about publishing anymore , because you are not about to perish anymore .
end question
start question
What are the general rules for faculty attendance ?
It varies very widely depending on individual faculty , departmental , and institutional culture , norms , and rules . For example , many faculty at my institution live in a city two hours away and only come to campus twice a week for classes and meetings . Faculty performance at my school is measured by lines on the CV , so one can argue that not going to school is a more productive use of time if you have a home office . Meanwhile , while in Japan , I noted that some faculty had to punch timecards that showed their daily attendance . There , faculty performance seemed to be measured by the appearance if diligence rather than actual productivity . On the extreme other end , adjunct faculty in the USA may not even have an office ( or library privileges ) to even have office hours .
The major quantifiable predictor of success in research is ... success in research . People who have done research successfully in the past are more likely than not to continue to do so . For students that have not done research in the past , the best predictor I have seen for success ( whatever that may be ) is expressed in a quote from The Unwritten Rules of PhD Research , by Marian Petre &amp; Gordon Rugg : A willingness to learn for themselves and good judgement about when to stop and ask for feedback . * It 's not exactly quantifiable , but you can get a sense for it in an interview . ( Of course , this quality can be learned , so a lack of it does n't necessarily predict an inability to succeed at research . ) * I took this quote completely out of context ; the authors there are actually discussing the role of the PhD advisor , and they mention this quality in reference to a student " who can be pretty much left to get on with it , with supervisory meetings being something that both parties enjoy , and where each party learns from the other . "
Because you already have real world experience in IT but are unsure it is where you want to stay , a general MBA should be fine . If you want to stay in IT , what most companies care about is actual experience - and it seems you have that . Having an MBA and experience in IT is a great combination and having experience in IT is far more useful than having a specialist MBA in IT . Another issue is that IT management is usually not a challenging place to get to if you are interested . I 've worked with quite a few people in IT and it was the rare one who wanted to be in management . Most wanted to keep their hands in the technology . For this reason , IT management is different from many other fields in business .
I 've been publication chair of an IEEE conference before , and it 's pretty straight-forward . IEEE has a well-arranged process for managing conference publications , and you basically just need to hold up your side of the deal and make sure that nothing falls through the cracks . In particular : you should have an IEEE CPS publications contact . You can get this from the current general chairs , since they 're dealing with IEEE , or ( since its usually the same from year to year ) you can ask the previous publications chair . Set up a meeting with that person ASAP and they can walk you through the process and make plans with you ; I 've had very good experiences working with their publications personnel . The key responsibilities that you should expect to fulfill are : Set a schedule acceptable to IEEE and the conference chairs Work with the general chairs to fill out the required forms and get them to the IEEE on time , so that you can get the publications <URL> contract signed . This will include setting the various different types of publications ( e.g. , main track , short papers , workshop papers , tutorial abstracts , etc ) , as well as pages sizes , expected number , delivery method ( I recommend USB sticks ) and budget . Send information about camera ready from IEEE to the various conference chairs that need it ( general , program , workshops , tutorial , etc. ) . Work with chairs to get all of the front matter prepared in a timely fashion and within the schedule negotiated with IEEE ( cover , index information , introductions , sponsored material , etc. ) . Immediately after the conference , report to IEEE whether there were any no-shows ( who should have their papers removed ) . One month after reporting whether there were and no-shows , everything should appear online in IEEE Xplore . If it does n't , then you need to keep pinging IEEE 's representative to make sure things get into IEEE Xplore as promptly as possible .
One of the strange effects of faculty hiring ( and graduate admissions ) is that offers do not necessarily go to the strongest candidates . Departments have limited resources to interview , recruit , and hire faculty . Interviews are expensive ; startup packages are really expensive ; faculty job offers burn political capital even when they are n't accepted . So hiring committees make strategic decisions based on the perceived probability that candidates will accept the position . The University of Southeast North Dakota at Hoople would most likely not interview superstar applicants , because they do n't want to waste their time interviewing someone who 's " obviously " going to get offers from stronger schools . As with any self-selection process , this assumption is partly justified and partly Institutional Impostor Syndrome . So no , selecting an MIT grad is absolutely not a no-brainer for U-Cal-XYZ . And yes , sometimes reasonable PhD students from very strong schools fail to get faculty jobs , or even interviews , because they do n't quite have the research record to get an interview at the best departments , but their pedigree scares off weaker departments .
In my discipline ( CS ) in conferences you can find several levels of reviewer recommendations that are different depending on the venue 's regulations . You may have : Strong Accept ( +3 ) Accept ( +2 ) Weak Accept ( +1 ) Borderline ( 0 ) Weak Reject ( -1 ) Reject ( -2 ) Strong Reject ( -3 ) Not all conference have the same levels . E.g. , The Borderline level is not very common ( I have only met it in one conference ) and Strong Reject or Strong Accept might not be there as well . Usually , for your paper to be accepted in good conferences , when we are talking about 3 reviewers , you usually need at least 2 weak accepts and 1 accept or something similar . Getting accepted with a weak reject is not very likely , unless the other two reviewers gave an Accept or better , but I do not think this is very common .
It seems to me that the ethics here really relate to the foundation upon which you will build . Conducting additional research and writing additional papers is not problematic in itself , but if you must use materials , data , and ideas from informal conversations then you have ethical and/or practical considerations . If you have never met the other researchers and have just read some papers , found it interesting , and then they stopped publishing , I do n't see how you would have any obligation to those researchers . This is academic life - we build on the work of others . In fact , you might say we have an ethical obligation to advance the field . Coming from this perspective , what is acceptable with respect to the foundational elements would be governed by the normal rules . So here are some examples : Data : If you need actual ( generally unpublished ) data from the other researcher ( s ) then you will have to ask for the data and have their permission to publish that data . You should acknowledge the source of that data in any related publications . Materials : If you need code or study materials , you will have to ask for it as well and you will be bound by any relevant licensing restrictions . Again , this should be acknowledged . Ideas : If you are building on informal conversations with previous researchers , then you should seek their permission and acknowledge that as well . This is about not losing friends , unless you are under NDA , in which case it may be a legal matter as well . There may also be cases in which your reputation and friendships may be at stake , for example if you publish research that competes with that of your old advisor . This should not generally be a big concern with projects that are abandoned . If in doubt , you should probably communicate your intentions and seek their blessings . In many cases , particularly if others have given advice , it may be a good idea to ask if they want to be involved as a coauthor . A researcher who has had to stop doing their research , perhaps due to lost funding or changes in their employment , may be excited at the opportunity to help advance the field while improving their own CV , by just providing some past data and helping with some writing . The most important thing is to be sure to always give credit where it is due .
Whether a tool works for you or not depends on your work style , so general recommendations are difficult . However , you can use it for example to read digital articles . There are some literature management tools that work well with iOS devices , and you can read any PDF with readers like GoodReader . With the later you can , for example , <URL> . You can also directly access your files if you use , e.g. , Dropbox ( can be helpful in meetings ) . There are also apps available for classroom management , if you do a lot of teaching . You can use it for presentations ( Keynote on iOS is okay ) . It 's nice if you travel to conferences ( for emails and the like ) . In short , there are many uses , but it depends on your work style . Question I 'd have would be how your colleagues use the iPad ( if it 's an department wide thing ) . Also : That 's a nice problem to have . :-)
I think it 's helpful to understand how NSF graduate research fellowship applications are reviewed . Each application consists of the following components : a 2-page personal statement ; a 2-page description of past research ; a 2-page description of proposed future research , transcripts , and exactly three recommendation letters . If you attempt to send four , NSF simply refuses the fourth letter ; on the other hand , if only two letters arrive by the deadline , your application is rejected without review . All 10000 + applications are reviewed in a single three-day physical meeting . Applications are split into 30 + subject areas , each considered by a separate review panel . Each panel has 20-30 members and reviews 300-400 proposals . ( All these figures are ballparky ; panels vary in size depending on the number of applications . ) Before review , applications are divided into levels based on the applicants ' time in graduate school : None ( 30 % ) , less than a semester ( 30 % ) , less than 12 months ( 30 % ) , and more than 12 months ( 10 % ) . All level-1 applications are reviewed together , then all level-2 applications , and so on . Expectations are significantly higher for more experienced applicants . The precise expectations obviously vary by discipline , but in computer science , pre-students need a credible research plan , early students need publishable results , and older students usually need multiple publications . The " more than 12 months " level is only for people with extenuating circumstances , like a significant change of field . The 12-month limit counts time that applicants have actually been registered , not time since entering their first graduate program . So a student who started a PhD program in August 2011 and does not register for classes this summer will still be eligible in September 2012 . If you want to apply in your second year , do not take classes your first summer . Each review consists of a " letter grade " ( excellent , very good , good , fair , or poor ) and a narrative evaluation of " Intellectual Merit " ; a letter grade and a narrative evaluation of " Broader Impact " ; and an overall numerical score . The panelists use the numerical scores to cluster the applications into four categories : Yes ( 10 % ) , Maybe ( 25 % ) , Honorable Mention ( 5 % ) , and No ( 60 % ) . NSF uses the narrative evaluations to decide which Maybes get fellowships and which get honorable mentions . Every proposal is reviewed twice , the proposals in the No pile are retired , and each of the remaining proposals is reviewed a third time . Thus , each reviewer reviews roughly 35-40 proposals . On average , each reviewer spends 20-30 minutes on each proposal . That 's just enough time to read each of the documents once , make a snap judgement , and then assemble a narrative review from a pile of boilerplate sentences . It 's brutal , especially because most applications are strong . So anything you can do to make your reviewers ' life easier will work to your advantage . Every component of your application should directly address each of the <URL> . In particular , all three statements and all three recommendation letters should include a paragraph describing intellectual merit , starting with the phrase Intellectual Merit in boldface type , and another paragraph describing broader impact , starting with the phrase Broader Impact in boldface type . Both paragraphs should say something specific , substantial , and credible . For security/privacy reasons , the review panel does not have internet access ; reviewers are not even permitted to use their own laptops . So if you use your StackExchange participation as an example of broader impact , be specific about how you participate ; the panelists ca n't look up your answers or your reputation . Another point to keep in mind is that reviewers are probably not experts in the applicant 's chosen subdiscipline . An application by an aspiring astrophysicist studying planetary climatology ( to make up a random example ) might be reviewed by a high-energy astrophysicist , an expert in planetary formation , and a string theorist . Yes , your statements must include enough field-specific technical detail in your statements to be credible , but the overall goals and merits of your proposed research should be clear to a broader audience . For fine details , it 's always best to talk with faculty in your field who have experience with NSF fellowship winners , either as an advisor , a reference , or a panelist . ( The most useful letters read " I have written reference letters for x NSF fellowship applicants , of which y were successful ; I would rank this student among the top z of those fellowship winners . " ) It 's also a good idea to talk with <URL> in your ( target ) department ; ask to read their applications and their reviews . See also <URL> .
This is answered in the FAQ for the <URL> : CUL [ Cornell University Library ] has an archival repository to support preservation of critical content from institutional resources , including arXiv . We anticipate storing all arXiv documents , both in source and processed form , in this repository . There will be ongoing incremental ingest of new material . We expect that CUL will bear the preservation costs for arXiv , leveraging the archival infrastructure developed for the library system . The same FAQ also tells you about the current funding model ( up until some years ago arXiv was entirely funded and ran by the Cornell University Library ; now funding comes from also the Simons Foundation as well as other participating university libraries ) . In terms of Cornell 's digital preservation policies , I can not find a full description online ( probably just due to my weak google-fu today ) ; but <URL> .
There 's no absolute here -- it really depends on the program in question . Some departments are stricter about cutoffs than others . It depends a lot on the number of applications they receive , and how selective they need to be . However , I know that many good departments do n't screen on GPA alone . However , even if you 're GPA is not " elite , " that 's not the end of the world , so long as you have the research experience and the letters of recommendation to support you . ( A student from our department was recently admitted to a top-10 engineering program in the US on the basis of his research experience -- his GPA was pedestrian at best . )
No , there is n't any general rule . First , a PhD degree is awarded by a university , not by an individual . The education system of a country or the university rules usually define which positions can officially act as supervisors . The same education system or the university rules establish which titles should have a person to be eligible for those positions : if the PhD is not required , which is not uncommon , there can certainly be PhD supervisors without a PhD . Another case is the following : in Italy the PhD degree has been established some thirty-odd years ago . This means that most of those who became professors in Italy before that time do n't have a PhD ( as Federico rightly observes , some might have taken it abroad ) , but they surely can supervise students officially .
Positive early signs : you helped write the job specification ; one or more of the selection panel advised you to apply for the vacancy ; they take up your references ; you hear through the grapevine that members of your target department have been asking around , about you , after your interview ; you get an additional interview , where the main topics of discussion are pay &amp; other benefits , when you could start , and what facilities you 'd require in post . Regarding formal paperwork , : all applicants at our place are required to show eligibility for employment , at time of interview . So there 's no additional requests for paperwork between final interview and job offer .
First of all , you need to make it exceedingly easy for the Luddites to put their material online . If it is hard to do , or if it takes a particular skill other than " go to this website and click a few links " than you 're going to have a hard time ever convincing them to get onboard . If they absolutely need to be trained , you may have to have a mandatory training session where they get their first set of lectures or whatever online ( but do n't expect any other forthcoming material to be posted without more prodding -- then again , they may see the light if it is easy enough and they can see the results online ) . I 'd suggest one or more of the following four suggestions , in order of preference : Ask for student volunteers to help these faculty put their material online . Whether these are TAs for the class , or paid/hired students not already assigned , or strictly volunteers is up to you and budgeting concerns . You may have to continue this process for subsequent classes if the faculty are n't willing to learn how to do it themselves . Automate the system ( which goes back to my original comment ) . If paper is involved , have someone set up a scanner to handle loose-leaf material , or via a photocopier/scanner . If it is just soft-copy document uploading , this can be automated with a drop box on a shared drive -- just drag materials into the box and it ends up online . This wo n't make for a particularly organized system , but at least the material will be online . Wait them out and let attrition work its magic . You may always have reluctant faculty , but as older Luddites retire you should find this less of a problem . If there are only a few faculty that do n't want to come onboard , this is definitely the easiest method , and you 're really not losing too much by waiting . Make posting the material mandatory . I can almost guarantee this wo n't be possible for tenured faculty , but maybe you can provide some incentive rather than simply encouraging them to put the material online . I do n't think you 'll get very far with a simple plea for coming into the 21st Century -- if they are refusing to adopt , they probably feel they are too busy , or do n't like the whole idea of it .
I went to graduate school in mathematics at a university with a TA union . I think the main effect was to level off graduate student compensation across disciplines -- so , the union was apparently a great boon to those in the humanities , but I heard that compensation for math TA 's would likely be higher if not for the union . Another benefit to the union was that it instilled ( for many ) a sense of camaraderie and common cause . Union events were fun , and they served beer . It was a good way to get to know your fellow graduate students . The main disadvantage was that dues had to be paid , around $ 200 a year ( most of which went straight to the AFT ) . This is not a lot , but on our salary it did mean something . Dues were mandatory , even if you opted out of the union -- although state politicians have since seen to it that this is no longer true . Another potential disadvantage is that union dues went ( in part ) to political contributions to union-friendly politicians . I did n't mind , but this tended to alienate graduate students who were more politically conservative than me . There was occasional heated rhetoric when I was there , and even more after I left , but overall the union did n't seem to do much good or harm . Mostly , I remember the beer .
I knew I had read up on this before . Do n't remember for what , but it was definitely for Academia . From the <URL> I would say that GS-15 would be like department head , GS-14 would be tenured , GS-13 would be non-tenured , GS-12 associate , and GS-9 through -11 to be some varying group of PhDs and grad students . GS-13 ( A ) to perform , under administrative direction , with wide latitude for the exercise of independent judgment , work of unusual difficulty and responsibility along special technical , supervisory , or administrative lines , requiring extended specialized , supervisory , or administrative training and experience which has demonstrated leadership and marked attainments ; ( B ) to serve as assistant head of a major organization involving work of comparable level within a bureau ; ( C ) to perform , under administrative direction , with wide latitude for the exercise of independent judgment , work of unusual difficulty and responsibility requiring extended professional , scientific , or technical training and experience which has demonstrated leadership and marked attainments in professional , scientific , or technical research , practice , or administration ; or ( D ) to perform other work of equal importance , difficulty , and responsibility , and requiring comparable qualifications . GS-14 ( A ) to perform , under general administrative direction , with wide latitude for the exercise of independent judgment , work of exceptional difficulty and responsibility along special technical , supervisory , or administrative lines which has demonstrated leadership and unusual attainments ; ( B ) to serve as head of a major organization within a bureau involving work of comparable level ; ( C ) to plan and direct or to plan and execute major professional , scientific , technical , administrative , fiscal , or other specialized programs , requiring extended training and experience which has demonstrated leadership and unusual attainments in professional , scientific , or technical research , practice , or administration , or in administrative , fiscal , or other specialized activities ; or ( D ) to perform consulting or other professional , scientific , technical , administrative , fiscal , or other specialized work of equal importance , difficulty , and responsibility , and requiring comparable qualifications . GS-15 ( A ) to perform , under general administrative direction , with very wide latitude for the exercise of independent judgment , work of outstanding difficulty and responsibility along special technical , supervisory , or administrative lines which has demonstrated leadership and exceptional attainments ; ( B ) to serve as head of a major organization within a bureau involving work of comparable level ; ( C ) to plan and direct or to plan and execute specialized programs of marked difficulty , responsibility , and national significance , along professional , scientific , technical , administrative , fiscal , or other lines , requiring extended training and experience which has demonstrated leadership and unusual attainments in professional , scientific , or technical research , practice , or administration , or in administrative , fiscal , or other specialized activities ; or ( D ) to perform consulting or other professional , scientific , technical , administrative , fiscal , or other specialized work of equal importance , difficulty , and responsibility , and requiring comparable qualifications . They 're all slightly different , heading from supervisor role to department/division lead role . <URL> .
This entire answer is US-centric , since I have no clue how other countries work . This is not to say that I know the US system that well - but rather that it 's the only system I know at all . Public universities work differently from private universities . Public universities usually have pay scales and these are often public since professors are considered state employees ( yes , my salary is public knowledge ) . So you can start digging around there . Usually there 's a range within which you can hope to negotiate : moving out of that range is beyond even the power of the university to authorize . Private universities usually have more flexibility and it might be harder to get the range of salaries . But if you get an offer you can ask around to get a sense of the ballpark . As for what a reasonable range is , getting data is very discipline-specific . For CS , the CRA puts out stats fairly regularly and there 's the Taulbee survey . For other disciplines , there might be something similar . Salaries in academia at least at tenure-track level are less flexible in general . Probably the best way to get to the top of the permissible range is to have another offer . Other than that it 's hard . Often , the things that are most easily negotiated are other parts of the startup package . Which is not to say that you should n't negotiate salary - but unlike in industry , it 's less likely to be as beneficial .
If research is a substantive part of the jobs you are applying for , then you should be wary of asking your Master 's supervisor for a letter . It could work out OK , but there 's a serious risk . The issue is that hiring committees want information about your current research , rather than what you did for your Master 's degree . If your Master 's supervisor has read some of your recent work and is capable of discussing and evaluating it in detail , then it will be a useful recommendation . However , you do n't want a letter that focuses on the past and just includes a brief paragraph saying " And the Ph.D. research seems to have gone well , but I do n't really know anything about it . " That could actually hurt your case by suggesting that you could n't find three people who understand and think highly of your more recent work . A strong letter that focuses on the past is certainly better than a weak letter , so it could be your best option . You might also talk about this issue with your Master 's supervisor , and see how compelling and up to date a letter she thinks she can provide . If she has read or wants to read your recent work , then that 's great ; if she is hesitant about the idea of writing a letter , then I would ask someone else .
Good question . I am a tenured ( associate ) math professor at UGA . To be ( too ? ) honest , I sometimes find graduate visitation days to be slightly awkward . With most of the students , they and I want to have something to talk about ; for many of the students , we will have something to talk about at some future point ; for a few of the students , we will become so close that it will be hard to remember these first awkward conversations . I just remembered a visitation day where I almost sullenly plopped myself down at a barroom table next to a certain prospective student and a bunch of current students . They were more trying to have a conversation than actually having a conversation . At one point the topic turned to some elementary topology problem the prospective student had in mind for some reason . One of the current students was studying topology and she got interested and started to try to work it out . Alas I was still bored , and after a few minutes I quietly uttered a few words . The current student paused for a second , then her eyes lit up , and very soon after I got my chance to politely excuse myself and get another drink . That prospective student is now my PhD student , but the bond was not forged on that day . But still , we should try . 1 ) I hear you study X. I 've studied only a little bit of it so far , but I remember learning about Y. Can you tell me a little about your work ? " Can you tell me about your work ? " is a very natural question that sadly can often be a showstopper . The honest answer for many professors when talking to perfectly capable students who may later turn out to be their students is often " Not very meaningfully , no . " Above I tried to frame the question in a little better way . How is it better ? Well for one thing , asking a professor in a department you 're visiting what they do can come off as lazy : almost everyone has a wealth of information available on their webpage now . If the student really cared , would n't they look a little bit in advance ? So the framing of the question shows that the student has looked a little bit in advance . It also clues the professor in to what might be an appropriate level at which to pitch the explanation . If X is number theory ( as it is for me ) , then if Y is " Wilson 's Theorem " I 'm going to say something very different than if Y is " the Chebotarev Density Theorem " . Still it 's probably best not to say too much . I remember asking one professor this when I was a prospective student and he said , " Yes , I study number theory , as do several other faculty members here . I guess what distinguishes me is that I 've also become very interested in representation theory , and my work uses that to a larger extent than the others . Does that make sense to you ? " The person who said this to me was Dick Gross , and yes it did make sense , and as a two sentence orientation to who he was and what he did it functioned brilliantly then and it still does , but I see now what a lot of confidence and experience he must have had to know to say so little . And he asked me if I understood , and if I had n't he probably would have said something else : he seemed like a nice guy ... and it turns out that he is . ( I do n't remember what I said after that . I think it would have been like me at the time to try to show some knowledge by asking a question -- that 's a young math student type of thing to do . So I 'll imagine that I asked " What kind of representation theory ? " because I would have known that there were finite groups , Lie groups and so forth . And Gross would have replied " Algebraic groups " . At that point I would have had to admit that I was totally lost ... and my being lost would be of no lasting significance : suffice it to say that I have since learned about that topic ! ) 2 ) Do you do any computer work ? I think that 's an increasingly important question . Nowadays a math student has to locate himself on the spectrum of more computation / less computation . If you 're thinking about working with a faculty member , you definitely want to know this . 3 ) Are you interested in real-world applications of your work ? Have you ever done any consulting or other outside work ? Again , a key question . You should already be starting to think about these sorts of questions for yourself . I , for instance , have absolutely zero contacts in industry , so I would be a terrible advisor for a student who was inclined in that direction , even if we had common mathematical interests . 4 ) How long have you been here ? That 's a nice question for one human being to ask another . The professor will probably respond with some personal information about the town or their housing situation or their family or ... something . 5 ) Where did you get your PhD ? You would think that would be a kind of backward-looking question to ask a professor , but actually academics ask each other that kind of thing all the time . Sad to say we really do try to have little portions of the CVs of hundred
The title is your bait , the first paragraph is your hook . Make the bait big and tasty , make the first paragraph catchy . A poster is primarily an advert for you . Secondarily , it 's an advert for your research . Thirdly , it 's an advert for your department . And it will succeed at those things best , if it gives the casual reader an easily accessible introduction into what 's novel about your research . Know the flow : it should be clear to anyone reading , what they should read first , then second , and so on . Make it clear that it 's your work . Get your name and affiliation in big letters , with a photo of you . Include your contact details , and make sure you can be reached on them during the conference . Do n't use powerpoint . A poster is graphic design , so use a graphic design package such as InDesign . If you do n't have an eye for graphic design , design the poster with someone who does . Most departments have at least one natural talent . It 's often the person who keeps winning the " best poster at conference " prize . It 's orthogonal to ( i.e. independent of ) quality of research . Use a big , clear typeface . Not everyone you need to reach has the healthy , clear vision that most students have . Briefly state the problem , the method , the results , and the implications . Pretty pictures are crucial . The words are there just to supplement the explanation of your work given in the pictures . Test , test , test . Print it out life-size ( tiled sheets &amp; sticky tape are your friend ) , show it to a couple of colleagues ( one hot on your area of research , and one hot on design ) , watch the order in which they read things , ask for feedback . Implement any advice on content that comes from the one who is hot in your area of work . Implement any advice on design that comes from the one hot on design .
end question
start question
How to prepare for the French language exam as part of PhD program ?
Yes . I took both German and French . I was already fairly comfortable with French from having studied it in high school and in university , so I 'll write about German instead . I prepared for my German language exam by going on to the <URL> ( a program to retroactively digitise documents , including a lot of classical mathematics papers ) and downloading some papers in mathematical analysis ( my field , sort of ) from around the 1950s to 60s ( when still a lot of the papers were published in German ) . I then went to the library and borrowed the copy of <URL> ( for the nouns ) and a copy of a normal German-English dictionary ( for the verbs ) and sat myself down and started translating word by word . After about a month I translated about 30 pages or so of math papers ( and at the same time learned about uniform spaces ) , and proceeded to take my exam . Not much . I have absolutely no conversational German , and only very rarely do I have to look something up in German that I can not find a write-up in another language . ( So far twice only , one a slightly obscure result in algebraic lattices that the only reference I could find is to a paper in the 30s . ) ( French on the other hand has been useful ; mostly because the abovementioned " write-up in another language " often turned out to be in French . ) Given how much I 've found French to be useful for me , I 'm sure that if I had actually properly learned the language , German would be just about as useful . Conversely , if you do n't really learn the foreign language , you will probably be able to get by through other means in this day and age . The canonical place to find French papers to read is <URL> . Of course , for practice , you can also check out Bourbaki from the library ; it may be slightly less intimidating to start working first on the language by reading something whose mathematics at least you are familiar with .
" in-house " program is the term I always use myself and see in other people 's papers . In the corporate context , <URL> defines it as In-house software is a software that is produced by a corporate entity for purpose of using it within the organization . <URL> in an academic context Energy minimization is done with yammp , an in-house molecular mechanics package . <URL> All analyses were done with a battery of in-house codes and external analytical tools . I would n't say " in-house " strictly means " the source code is private " . I have sometimes seen people use " in-house " to mean " code our own research group wrote and uses , but which we also make available as open-source code " . But if I see a sentence in an article like " All analysis was performed using in-house code " , and no reference , then I read it as " We used some code we wrote ourselves which we have n't published anywhere " , which sounds like what you want .
Is there a comparative analysis of programs that allow industry licensing/certification versus those that adhere to more traditional entrance requirements like the GRE ? I am not aware of a formal analysis of the differences . One could probably divide graduate programs into two camps , with some gray area between . In a really general sense , academic research does n't prepare you for industry jobs and industry jobs do not prepare you for research . Therefore , the two type of graduate programs are research targeted and industry targeted . I would argue that any program that accepts/requires/weights industry certifications falls into the industry targeted camp . The two camps are so different that trying to compare across them is silly . As to your other questions How do examinations , such as GSE/CISSP/CISM / etc , compare to the GRE in terms of overall academic preparedness ? Is there is measurable difference in the comparative difficulty between the different categories of examinations ? If you 've taken both types of examination , industry and academic , is one class of examination better or worse for gauging candidates , and why ? Standardized tests in general are pretty rubbish metrics and that is why most admission committees also request transcripts , essays and recommendations . The GRE is likely marginally better at predicting success in research targeted programs and the industry exams will be marginally better at predicting success in industry targeted programs . As for difficulty , it really depends on the experience of the individual . Is an History exam more or less difficult than a Math exam ? Yes , but it depends on the individual . Individuals with an industry background will likely find the industry tests easier than the GRE , while those following a research based academic career path will likely find the GRE easier than the industry exams .
I 'd recommend trying to gather some objective data on outcomes . For example , in the <URL> you can search by " name of school " and " year of degree " to find a list of people who graduated in 2014 or 2015 . It 's not guaranteed to be complete , and it sometimes mixes together people who were in different departments at the same university , but it 's usually pretty good ( and sometimes easier than finding this information on math department websites ) . Then you can start googling people , with " math " appended if necessary , to see what you can find . If you ca n't find any indication that someone is working in academia , then they probably are n't . If they are , then you can gauge how pleased you would be with such a job . This should give more reliable data than self-reported difficulty of finding postdocs , because it avoid filtering through the departmental culture . Some cohorts of grad students are optimistic and enthusiastic , while others are more apprehensive , and it 's not clear to me that this correlates particularly well with actual success on the job market . It 's also worth keeping in mind that the relevant issue is job opportunities , not actual outcomes . If one person complains about the difficulty of finding a job and another does n't , you ca n't conclude anything without knowing where they were applying . ( Sometimes students at more prestigious universities apply mainly to fancier postdocs , because they would n't be happy with less prestigious jobs . ) Unfortunately , this is more difficult to gather objective data on , but I think it 's a second-order effect .
<URL> . The preceeding link is one of many stories covering that angle . The best graph describing how bad it is comes from <URL> : <URL> The upshot of most of these is that employers have a psychological bias towards employed people . Whether this is " fair " or " appropriate " or even " smart " not is really not the question , the finding is pretty difficult to refute : you are far more likely to land a job if you are currently gainfully employed . To bring this back to your original question , I would strongly recommend you begin your job search before you leave the program .
As a PhD student I did exactly that , contacting professors for exchange about two years ago , and that worked very well for me . ( I ended up visiting a top UK university and the collaboration was , and still is , very productive . ) My supervisor was involved in discussing the places I wanted to go , but I handled all contact . Some advice : Study the professor 's webpage ( if they have one ) to see if it says anything about collaborations . If it says on their webpage that they have no time , do n't contact them . Send the professor an email , give them a week or two to answer , then follow up with a second reminder-email if there is no reply . Important things to do/mention : Make sure the email is very short , but that it still describes precisely what you want to collaborate on . Professors are chronically short on time . If you have a travel grant etc. that will fund your stay , it 's important to say so . ( They 're much more likely to accept you if they do n't have to spend any money . But I think most universities will waive term fees if you ask them . ) Add a sentence about your accomplishments so far , so they have some impression that having you visit is going to be a net gain for them . Mention any papers you 've co-authored , if you add a link make sure it 's short ( DOI , arXiv etc ) . Try to keep the email self-contained , but linking to any papers , your CV or research webpage " for more information about me " is OK . Also add a sentence describing how you think your proposed topic fits with what they are doing , so they know you 've actually checked out their group and read some of their papers etc. . In my experience , most people reply positively to such an email , so first send emails to the two or three places you want to visit the most . If none of those are successful , send to the next few places on your list . YMMV though .
I do n't think that there 's a huge enough discrepancy between the technical content of the European three-year bachelor 's and the four-year American bachelor 's to make that a big concern . However , where you may run into problems is that your GPA might not be considered competitive for a top program , if it 's only in the 8.0 's out of 10 . ( It might get translated to a 3.3 or so , which would be problematic . ) What will make up for this is some statement that you 're near the top of your CS cohort , and good letters of recommendation will also help . Where you 'll also need to do some research is on whether the departments you want to apply to offer terminal master 's programs ; if not , it will make it a little more difficult , as the expectation would be that if you are admitted to the master 's program , you will then continue on to the PhD program thereafter . ( At such schools , a stipend is typically offered during the master 's phase of the program ; at schools that offer a terminal master 's , the funding sources for the master 's degree-only candidates is usually quite distinct , if it is available at all . )
Since you intend to do it on CS I want to point out that the GRE Subject Test on CS ( the one usually asked ) will not be administrated anymore . According to the ETS website : The last administration of the GRE Computer Science Test will be in April 2013 . The test will be discontinued after the April 2013 administration . Scores will continue to be reportable for five years . ( <URL> ) I wanted to say this in a comment ( since it 's not exactly an answer , but I think it 's an important information to you ) , but I ca n't since I do n't have enough reputation on this website to do it :( Therefore , even though I think you wanted more a opinion from people already in academia , I feel obligated to put some more thought on my answer : I 'm a student , currently undergrad ( will graduate at the end of this year ) and I 'm " kinda on the same boat " ( from a third world country , wan na do a Ph.D. on in US in CS and I 've being somewhat lost regarding what to do ) . Here is a compilation about what I have found so far that may be helpful to you : The notions of PhD and MSc in the US may be somewhat different from what you are used to . Quoting from something I 've read in a university website ( ca n't remember which one right now ) " Masters is about breadth , PhD is about depth " . At least in my country ( and I 'm guessing it may be the same for yours ) , both are pretty depth-oriented . - > Keep in mind that , some MSc are breadth oriented , these may not be the droids you are looking for . Also , the programs vary a lot from place to place ... ( And if you are used to the fact that you have to do a MSc prior to the PhD , this is not true for a lot of PhD programs in the US , you can join then directly if you have a bachelor 's degree ) . Example : At CMU , the masters degree is " breadth-oriented " , meaning that you take a lot of advanced courses in various topics , and the PhD is totally research-oriented ( average 6 years , in contrast to the average 2-year MSc + 4-year PhD in my country ) . But in MIT , as far as I 've understood , you apply for grad school , if you are accept and you do n't have a MSc , you are put on a MSc program , if you already do , you are put on the PhD program ( so , seems to be a lot research oriented on both programs ) . - > Make sure you read thoroughly how the programs in the universities you intend to apply are , cause there 's no " standard " . About the " money " part of your question , as far as I 've seen , it goes something like this : MSc : You have to pay for tuition , you may get a paid TA-ship ( Teaching Assitant paid position ) , you may get an RA-ship ( Research Assistant paid position ) , but nothing is guaranteed . PhD : Top universities usually pay you monthly and if the professor that is orientating your research does n't have funding , you need to get an RA or TA job . On other universities , you may need to narrow your options to professors that have funding . - > Keep in mind that , PhD is a better option money-wise , but harder to get in . As pointed on the comments , research capability is a must ( for the " depth " programs at least ) and matters even more than grades . Quoting from a CMU professor on the " Grad School Talk " available at their website : It does not help you , in my opinion , to be closer to 4.0 [ GPA ] as opposed to 3.5 . It 's a much better idea to spend your time on research than on optimizing your GPA . - Keep in mind that proving your research capability matters a lot . But another important quote from this same pdf regarding grades is : Your grades may be somewhat low -- under 3.0 -- because you were having a good time in college and you may therefore be having trouble getting into a Ph.D. program . In this case , you may want to do an MS and use the time to boost your grades and reapply after the MS. Another important thing to note : The things that each program prioritize when looking at your application seem to vary a lot , even among programs at the same university/department . - > Try to figure out what the programs you are aplying prioritize . ( eg : by reading their websites well ) . About TOEFL : It matters a lot , but as far as I understand , it matters in a sense that it prevents you from getting in a program if you do n't have the minimum score needed . * Each university asks for a different TOEFL score . * The top universities ( regarding CS programs ) usually ask for 100 on the IBT ( internet based test , out of 120 ) , an exception being Stanford , that asks for 110 . Regarding IELTS : All universities seem to accept TOEFL , a lot of them seem to accept IELTS , but you need only one of them , so I suggest you go for the TOELF ( for US universities ) . As a plan of action , I suggest this one ( which is kinda what I 'm doing myself ) . Boost your ability to prove " research capability " : It 's VERY important that you have some prior research experience . Have you ever done research as an undergrad ? Do you have professors that can write a recommendation letter for you ? If you do n't , you are ( probably ) gon na need to pursuit this
Edited for clarity , since the question in the title is somewhat opposite to that in the body : do not list all your references on your CV . Only the ones who have written or will write to that particular potential employer . To list everyone might give several unfortunate impressions . First , that the potential employer can contact any one of those references directly . Second , if the prospective employer has received letters from some , but not all , they may think something 's wrong ... and one form of this is to consider your application " incomplete " , but not inform you , and you miss the opportunity .
Most central European universities do n't traditionally have QEs . However , it seems to me as if it is getting more popular to have something after the first one or two years of your programme . Two data points : In my current university , PhD students need to defend their thesis proposal after ( maximum ) two years . This includes writing their proposal , receiving written comments by two other ( i.e. , not their advisor ) professors of the faculty , and presenting and defending their proposal in front of the entire faculty ( our faculty is pretty small ) . Questions are asked in this defense , but not typically about material that is not directly linked to the proposal . In theory students can fail at this step , but is is very uncommon . The goal is rather to force students ( and advisors ) to have a clear goal of where the thesis is going early on , something that was historically a bit of a problem . When I did my PhD , we did not really have any sort of entry exam or defense in my alma mater . However , since then , they have switched to a model not unlike what I explained above . The main difference is that proposals are only presented ( there is no written document ) , and that only a small committee is responsible for giving feedback on the proposal ( not the entire faculty ) . This defense has to be taken one year after start of the PhD . Failing this defense is again very uncommon . Summary : the places I am well aware of do n't have stressful QEs . Instead , we traditionally had pretty much nothing . Nowadays , many places have a proposal defense instead of a QE , but this is not a step that students typically have to be stressed out about .
Sure . The IEEE <URL> even includes an example of an author who gives a web URL in the affiliation block : Michael Shell School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta , Georgia 30332 -- 0250 Email : <URL> The variety of examples in the template further make it clear that authors can choose whether or not to include details such as email , web URL , address , telephone number , and fax ( ! ) number in the author affiliation block .
I 've worked with a fair number of either researcher MDs or MD/PhDs , and myself have only a PhD , so I 'll try to give my perspective : Do You Need One : Probably not , if you 're only interested in the scientific questions about what you are doing , and are not particularly concerned with it 's direct application to patient care or the clinical setting . Basically , if there is a department outside a medical school that can house your research , you 're likely fine . Why Would Someone Pick One Up ? : There are many reasons for a researcher to have a MD or an MD/PhD - they 're interested in the clinical aspects of the research science they do , have seen their interests evolve over time toward more research and less patient care , or are in research areas that necessitate having the expertise that comes along with having an MD. . There are some medical school programs that are more oriented towards producing new researchers than practicing doctors , and medical schools are massive sources of clinical research in the U.S. It 's really not surprising there 's a number of professors out there with MDs - my doctoral advisor was one of them . There 's also some...field-specific traditions . For example , there are tons of MDs working in infectious disease research and epidemiology , because it spawns fairly naturally from " Treat this weird infection " to " Why does this weird infection infected X people ? " to " How do we stop this weird infection from spreading " .
Non English language outputs are addressed in section 128 of the <URL> . Excluding Welsh , for which there was a special system , basically , the output needed to be accompanied by an English language abstract . The abstract is only used to identify an expert capable of evaluating the work and not in the evaluation itself .
Aeismail 's answer points out that you need to foster contacts with people who can write letters of recommendation testifying to your potential as a researcher . This is a definitely a good answer . However , it is hard to get good credible recommendation letters in China . You need to have not only strong academic performance but also strong social background to get them . The same is true for internship opportunities . When there are more than a hundred applicants competing for 3 internships , the best 3 academic performers with the strongest social background will get them . ( The population in China exceeds 1.3 billion ) . My answer to the question . How can I leave a good impression on the Admissions Committee ? Besides high GPA , GRE and TOEFL scores , ( and possibly winning a competition , publishing papers , abundant internship experiences ) and good credible recommendation letters , the only thing I can think of is an excellent Statement of Purpose . Use that statement to convince the admissions committee why you 'll be an excellent student in their school . Why are you interested in finance or financial engineering ? What have you learned in undergraduate school ? What particular research program in that school you are interested ? What do you hope you can learn from that school after you get the master degree from them ? What do you plan to do after master degree ? Etc.etc . Hopefully , they will be convinced by this statement and then accept you . This is my 5 cents worth . I sincerely hope experts here who are currently in the admission committees can give us more and effective answers .
Here I briefly describe two ideas regarding to what a professor can do in this situation . Keep contact with former students : Frequently , professors establish relationship with students during classes or during an undergraduate or master 's thesis . Probably , maintaining these relationships after students graduate may give you some interesting points of view regarding jobs in the industry . You can just send an email to a former student in order to ask her about her job or you can invite former students to give a talk in one of your classes . Establish relationships with actors in the industry : If students are required to take an internship , you can contact institutions that receive students for internship and suggest those institutions candidates that you know . I suppose that if you are able to refer to them good students , you can continue the relationship with those institutions . Another alternative would be to engage in professional activities in the industry . However , this depends on whether you are interested in working as a consultant or something similar .
With regard to : I did research in a number of different field ( ... ) finding out I 'm not super talented , but I learn fast and I have some intellectual stamina . I will try to focus on " talent " and " stamina " , two self-evaluation criteria you mention which have not been directly addressed in the comments so far . You set up a contrast between stamina ( which I interpret as a combination of curiosity and persistence ) and talent ( which I interpret as the ability to do more original/creative work with less apparent difficulty ) . You also mention several specific disciplinary sub-fields of research : xrays , etc. . I wonder if your perception of your " talent " might be more a consequence of the switching you have done between different areas of research , rather than your innate capacity for original research in one or more of these fields . Research in learning and expertise development suggests that it takes about 10 years of concentrated work in a particular discipline ( whether it is chess , car racing , or an academic field ) to develop expertise . Once developed , such expertise may be mistaken for talent by a less-trained eye . Your words suggest a judgment formed by comparing yourself to others . If these others happened to be more experienced in a given area of research , then the difference in " time on task " may partly account for your perception of lesser capacity for original research in some ways . A couple points seem worth making : You probably do want to eventually identify , develop , and apply your talent in some field . Whether it is CS or Physics or something else , it has to be something you should be willing to apply yourself to for an extended period of time . As you decide on your post-PhD path , consider the disciplinary area that you think could hold your intellectually engaged for a while . If your interest in research is such that CS is a means to answering questions in other fields , then CS is a means rather than an end for you . This will take you down one particular career trajectory . However , if your interest is in questions in CS proper , this might imply a different trajectory ( e.g. a research scientist/programmer in a physics lab , vs. a research scientist in a research center that focuses on computational questions like algorithms , etc ( sorry , CS is not my area ) . Finally , saying that you " like doing research " is a starting point for some deeper reflection . Think about HOW you like to do " research " - stated differently , what are the characteristics of a research project that make it exciting and fulfilling to you . A big part of this has to do with the level of " agency " you are comfortable with . Some people find satisfaction in carefully nurturing their own research agendas . They do this by working in a very specific niche for a very long time , spearheading ( as a PI ) their own grants and building partnerships and communities around a specific theory and/or methodology . Others are less comfortable leading , and prefer following -- rather than agonize over what grant to apply for , they are happy supporting on-going work , where the decisions about the direction of inquiry have mostly been made for them . While both kinds of people may ( justifiably ) consider themselves " researchers , " the differences in approach can lead to very different career trajectories in terms of the role one is shooting for and the kind of institution ( size , mission , etc. ) that is compatible with each of these roles/goals . Good luck !
No , the major goal is to examine the validity , integrity and contribution of the work . Since these can be challenged , causing the work to be rejected or subjected to a major revision , editing at this stage would just be like staining the wood before the carpentry work . Also , at least for me , my mind runs on two different gears when engaged in editing and reviewing . If I have to edit , I can only edit ; if I have to think about the concept , I ca n't edit ... perhaps in my mind editing only happens when the concept is already there . Having said that , there are three areas I always do a full body pat down , once for concept , once for edit : Table : I suggest always comb through the table title , column and row titles , numeric agreement , footnotes , superscripts , etc. . Illustration : Check labels , title , and footnotes . Abstract : Look for typos and point out if a particular sentence appears to be terse or even misleading . The reason for putting the abstract under all lenses is apparent . The reasons for checking the illustration and table are that these are usually the most neglected places in copy editing and revision . And yet , these are the most viewed sections in a paper . Nine out of 10 errors I 've spotted in journal articles are in these two hot spots . In the main text , if there is any sentence that is very grammatically challenged , I cite the page and line in the review , and comment on the need of a rewritten version . If there are typos , I collectively write one separate comment requesting a through spell-checking , and give 2-5 occasions in the article as examples .
I would say the responsibility of the reviewer is to judge the content of the paper . So , checking if the format of the journal/conference has been followed is not part of this job . Very large and obvious deviations can be pointed out , but for example spotting that the font of the caption is in size 11 and not 10 is not part of a reviewers task .
To address your specific question , I would propose the following sentence for your letter ( or something similar to your liking ) to highlight your language skills . I would position it toward the bottom , in the concluding paragraph : I also believe that my fluency in Welsh will contribute to my ability to effectively support the university 's bilingual nature . ( alternative wording ) : ... the university 's mission of bilingual service . I would not worry about providing any additional evidence of Welsh proficiency ( as a letter written in the language ) as you only want to submit the exact documents required in the application , nothing more . If there will be any need to ascertain your language ability , it can be easily done in a quick chat as part of your interview process or by phone . Good luck !
Lying on an application form is a really bad idea , it would probably destroy any chance you could have to be accepted . So , if the question is asked , you probably should answer truthfully . As for why it is asked , it also depends on how a program works . If it 's a very competitive program , maybe your application was good , but there were just better candidates than you . In that case , it could be worth applying again . If , on the other hand , the committee just decided that your application was not good enough , then applying again is risky . In any case , you would have to demonstrate that you have significantly improved your application during the last year .
end question
start question
Author attribution for books used in promotional video ?
So I actually emailed my question to <URL> , who is a professor of law and happens to be one of the foremost experts in Canadian copyright ... in the whole world . He was gracious enough to reply : " No . That sounds de minimis to me and does not require permission or attribution . " So the answer is no , they do n't need attribution .
Both ways are equally acceptable and used in separate instances . Basically if the author ( s ) names occur in the sentence type ( 2 ) should be used and if the name ( s ) are not then type ( 1 ) should be used . The question is then when the two forms result . Type ( 1 ) is a more passive form used when you , for example , are describing general background where the specific reference might not be key . The form is quite common ( but not exclusive ) to the introduction section . The sense is that the information is more distant from your own study . Version ( 2 ) is used when the cited studies are building the story and is closer to your work and thus more important for understanding the details of your study . A good example may be in the discussion where your results are compared with other specific studies . This is just a generalization since both are useful in all parts of a research article .
So I actually emailed my question to <URL> , who is a professor of law and happens to be one of the foremost experts in Canadian copyright ... in the whole world . He was gracious enough to reply : " No . That sounds de minimis to me and does not require permission or attribution . " So the answer is no , they do n't need attribution .
All correspondence regarding the paper should go to the corresponding author ( with very few exceptions ) . If you should contact them with requests for clarification is a judgment call . If you are a student not understanding it , you should probably first discuss it with your supervisor . If you are an experienced scientist and believe that there is insufficient information or even an error , asking them would be appropriate . Me and my colleagues have also ( successfully ) contacted corresponding authors with requests for access to data for a meta analysis or to invite them to a workshop ( all expenses paid ) . So there are a number of legitimate reasons to contact a corresponding author . That 's why the contact data is given in the manuscript . However , from the perspective of a corresponding author , most correspondence you receive is usually with the journal ( and spam from other journals and conferences ) .
If there is a standard in academic typesetting  and typesetting in general , it is to use a narrow space , i.e. : With space : 10 mA ; without space : 10mA ; with narrow space : 10 mA The most suitable Unicode character for this is U +202 F ( narrow no-break space ) . This is also the default setting of the LaTeX packages <URL> and <URL> . The <URL> says ( p. 47 ) : a space is always used to separate the unit from the number . However , it does not specify the width of the space . But at least , using no space at all is against this standard . As for readability , I am not aware of any studies on this , so I can only give you my informed opinion . Consider the following examples ( I use a picture to ensure that we are seeing the same thing and to be able to employ justified text ) : <URL> In the first sentence , no space is used . This makes it take longer to identify the unit as it merges with the numbers , in particular with long numbers . In the second sentence , a full space is used . Units are now read as individual words because that 's how our brain is trained to read full spaces . As our brain is also trained to process words one by one , it will first read and process 192.34 and then continue with K . In the third sentence , where narrow spaces are used , our brain is more likely to process the 192.34 K in one chunk and we also do not have the same problems as in the first sentence . Finally , consider the list in the second and third sentence ( 1  , 2  and 3  ) . With a full space it becomes more difficult for our brains to group what is written into individual items , as , e.g. , the first  has almost the same distance from the preceding 1 than from the 2 that follows it . With a narrow space , this is easier . Thus , using a narrow space is a compromise to have number and unit to be seperated less than words but more than the individual digits of the number .  Some journals do not seem to care to make their publications consistent in this respect .
It 's hard to address the field of video games specifically , since I was n't actually aware you could do a PhD in that . But broadly speaking , there is some ambiguity with citing books as authoritative sources in professional research since they are n't peer reviewed the way a journal article is . I would look for a few things : Is it canon ? In my own field of economics books are frequently cited , but they 're often old and seminal . Keynes ' General Theory , Smith 's Wealth of Nations , and so on . They have essentially been de facto peer reviewed over the course of time . Did , I do n't know , <URL> write a book ? Is the author peer reviewed ? Citing a book by an established academic may lend even their non-peer reviewed work sufficient credibility . Is the book based on peer reviewed work ? It 's not unusual for a journal article to be expanded into a book , or even in some cases for a portion of a book to turn into a journal article . This is true of the General Theory , and more recently Thomas Piketty 's Capital . Obviously you should cite the peer reviewed work instead if possible , but it would still help the case of the book portions . Is the author prominent in the field ? If you want to cite , for example , George Akerlof 's 2015 book in your research , the fact that he 's a famous economist with a Nobel prize lends it credibility . The last point may be particularly relevant for the field of video games , where I suspect the first three will be harder to meet . Unless there 's a more robust peer-reviewed network of video game journals than I 'm aware of , which is certainly possible . You say this person has some experience in the field , but it 's not clear to me that amounts to " prominent " . Was he a lead designer ? Is he a recognized expert on the topic of relevance ? If he 's only played a normal contributing role as a member of teams doing these things , I 'm leaning toward skepticism . The bottom line : since books are n't peer-reviewed , the credibility of the work needs to be firmly established in some other way . And as @ff524 said in her answer , it 's also going to depend on just how central this source is to your argument or results . If it 's just background rather than a central supporting piece , you can relax these requirements . The more central it is , the higher the bar should become .
The issue of whether or not merely providing data for a project constitutes " authorship " is a thorny one . Many medical journals , for example , are asserting that merely having generated data is not grounds for authorship all on its own . So if he 's just providing you with a data file , and that 's the last you 'll hear from him ? In my mind , that lands you in the acknowledgements section of a paper . On the other hand , if he 's going back and forth retrieving data as you refine your question , providing advice on how it came about , what it means , etc. and may end up reviewing the draft of the paper , etc. ? I 'd make him an author . Essentially , I would extend him the chance to take up the slightly more burdensome mantle of authorship , and let him turn it down .
A postprint is the final version that is given to the journal for copy editing and typesetting . It includes changes made in the refereeing process , but not the journal 's typesetting . It is often referred to also by the phrase " author 's final version " . In contrast , a preprint most specifically refers to a manuscript as it was before peer review . However , the term preprint is often used more generally ( for instance , when referring to a preprint server ) to refer to any version of the manuscript besides the journal 's final typeset copy . Thus it is common to find postprints on arxiv.org , which is commonly referred to as a preprint server . Postprints are mainly used as a way to provide <URL> . Many publishers allow authors to distribute postprints through their own website , an institutional website , or a preprint server . Many institutions ( e.g. <URL> ) assert a non-exclusive right to distribute postprints written by their employees , regardless of publishing agreements .
In general I think this is a good idea , but it might depend on your area . This way others can verify your method and compare it to yours . At least this is how it is used in for example Computer Vision and Machine Learning . Some examples : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Some theses with a dataset published : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> from the Open University UK , wrote in <URL> ( for a PhD in the computing subject ) : Some value in a PhD thesis is drawn from careful experimental design . It is best practice to only change one parameter at a time ; to use datasets that are publicly available or at least make datasets available ; to describe experiments in a way so that they are reproducible ; and , particularly in Computing , to set up experiments in an automated batch fashion . You however have to make sure that you are allowed to ( re ) publish the data on your web without violating any copyrights ( even if it can be downloaded for free ) , otherwise you can just link to the external data set . Edit : also see <URL> about <URL> .
You can ask the author of the image , or the owner of the exclusive licence if that is a different person , for permission to use the image . He may or may not grant it . If he grants you permission for free then it is courtesy to write an acknowledgement to that effect somewhere in the thesis . If the image is in the public domain then of course you are free to do with it as you will . ( By " public domain " , I mean , free of copyright restrictions by the explicit choice of the author or because the image is so old it can no longer be subject to copyright . I do not mean , simply the image was found in public . ) However many institutions have precise binding requirements for theses which would not allow you to place artwork on the cover ( even if you already had licence to do so from the author ) . You should confirm with your institution whether this would be allowed .
Certainly it would be a plus -- even a good technical blog or a nice portfolio of posts on SE can be helpful . It speaks to your level of sophistication and interest in the subject . One can tell a lot about scientific maturity by reading someone 's expository works -- it betrays the way one thinks about things and can also give an indication of scientific awareness . At least some of your letter writers should be familiar with the book and be impressed with it . If you 're lucky , some faculty at places you 're applying may also be familiar with it as well . For me , publishing with a well-known publisher would make a little stronger first impression ( the publisher can lend the book a little credibility ) , but really what the letters say about it , or how the book reads if I decide to look at it myself ( which is much easier for open access books ) is much more important . ( Note : open access books or online notes can actually get wider circulation in academia than traditionally published books . ) This is not to say that writing a technical book is a good way to get into a PhD program . It takes a lot of effort that could be put to other use if your only goal is to get a PhD . But if you already have one written , it would be silly not to mention it .
Answer : Although PRISMA does not require such a protocol , Cochrane Handbook does . However , it too does not " necessitate " it , but encourages it ( at least to my understanding ) . Check out the Chapter 7 of the Part 2 of this online Handbook : <URL>
Inherently ? No . While it might be good for science generally , they 're under no obligation to do so . That being said , some funding agencies require data be made available as a condition of their support , and some journals require it as a condition of publication . Absent that though , there 's no obligation to do so .
First of all , is there hard data that shows how many PhDs by discipline get published as a book ? I doubt there are meaningful data available on this . I do n't think total number of " thesis-books " is meaningful since this would depend on the size of the field . The percentage of thesis-books would ignore drop out ( although potentially drop out rates are consistent across fields ) . My understanding of tenure and promotion committee meetings is that at top universities , the representatives from STEM fields discount books while the representatives from the humanities discount journal articles . At lower ranked schools , where research productivity is less , fewer books are published . Does the student themselves seek to publish or does their supervisor/committee/department inform the student that they think their material could be a book . Most of the so called " book " fields publish single author papers and books . The student ( or former student ) seeks to get the material published as a book . Do the publishing companies actively seek material to publish or expect the author to approach them . A little bit of both . The publishers encourage authors who they think are doing good research to submit a " book proposal " , but they get hundreds of unsolicited proposals . Are there other factors unique to the Humanities that mean the book is a preferred publishing route ? In some ways the optimal publishing strategy for a humanities thesis is to carve one chapter from the thesis into a journal article and have this published in a good journal . Book publishers are okay with some of the material being previously published ( as long as copyright issues can be handled ) . This article/chapter then becomes the basis of the book proposal that is used to " sell " the book idea to the publisher . The problem with this approach is that for many theses in the humanities , craving out a single chapter is difficult . The research problems that humanities students tackle are simply larger in scope than the problems STEM students tackle and the problems can not be neatly subdivided . So to round up , what are the main factors that mean Humanities PhDs appear to often get published as book ? Historically , in the US PhD students in the Humanities would do multiple years of " field work " ( often in archives , but sometimes in the actual field ) and tenure at R1 institutions is based on one or two books being published . In the UK , the shorter PhD duration and the pressure of the REF to have 4 publications , leads to many more thesis being published as articles . The type of PhD projects conducted in book and article based cultures varies significantly .
The only study that I 'm aware of is the <URL> . Anecdotally , however , my experience matches yours -- even in places with institutional access , some people prefer sci-hub as it 's quicker and easier . No need for a lab-specific login or password , no need to check if the journal is actually one that your institution subscribes to ; just paste in the DOI and go . In fact , there are even web browser extensions that automatically append the sci-hub URL to the page you 're visiting , so with a few keypresses you can be automatically forwarded to sci-hub 's cache of that page .
I 've worked on a few method development projects and I 'm of the opinion that it is a good idea particularly if the author is well-known and well-liked ( if they are a dick or you do n't like them , that 's a different story ) . The obvious reason why is because when they happened to see your paper going out for review which claims a " massive improvement " over previous methods , they are n't going to get upset at you and pull strings to make your life miserable . Furthermore , they might have insight whether or not the new method is useful or merely enhancing a particular error which makes it look good . The only instance where sharing the paper might be a bad idea is if they happened to be working on a similar improvement . Receiving the paper may motivate them to scoop you .
About your questions : 1 ) If you want you can link the Wikipedia article or make a small summary explaining your thoughts , usually Professors or researchers do not have too much time to read long emails ; so try to keep it up simply 2 ) explained before 3 ) It is nothing bad that you point to the other papers of consequence Z , if he knows about them he will tell it straightforward In conclusion , do not feel bad that you did not have any formal education . Just address to the researcher in a respectful manner and tell him/her that you are interested about his job . You do not need to send your CV or a motivation letter just for asking something , but beware , you can or you can not get an answer ( usually depends how much interested of free time the researcher you are appointing has ) Good luck !
It depends on the subfield of computer science . For example , if the paper is in theoretical computer science , then author order is alphabetical , and the equal work put in by the authors is not negated by the author ordering . If in a discipline where author order is meaningful , then it 's standard practice to ( say ) order the authors alphabetically and add a footnote saying that all authors contributed equally to the work .
I would suggest adding a remark like the following to your list of publications in your CV . I publish in multiple fields , with different standards for ordering authors , some ordering by contribution and others ordering alphabetically . In the list below , first authors are indicated in bold when authors are ordered by contribution ; the symbol = indicates a paper with alphabetically-ordered authors . [ 1 ] Bozo T. Clown and K. N. Zhao . This is a chemistry paper . Science , 2014 . = [ 2 ] Bozo T. Clown and K. N. Zhao . This is a mathematics paper . Annals of Mathematics , 2016 . [ 3 ] K. N. Zhao and 4278 others . Higgs bosons are made of cheese . Nature 2020 .
Here 's a relevant study on computer science systems research that addresses your first question , " What percentage of research articles are provided with their source code ? " . The study is described in a tech report : " <URL> . " Christian Collberg , Todd Proebsting , Gina Moraila , Akash Shankaran , Zuoming Shi , Alex M Warren . March 21 , 2014 . The authors of this study observed the following protocol to determine code availability : We downloaded 613 papers from the latest incarnations of eight ACM conferences ( ASPLOS ' 12 , CCS ' 12 , OOPSLA ' 12 , OSDI ' 12 , PLDI ' 12 , SIGMOD ' 12 , SOSP ' 11 , VLDB ' 12 ) and five journals ( TACO ' 9 , TISSEC ' 15 , TOCS ' 30 , TODS ' 37 , TOPLAS ' 34 ) , all with a practical orientation . For each paper we determined whether the published results appeared to be backed by source code or whether they were purely theoretical . Next , we examined each non-theoretical paper to see whether it contained a link to downloadable code . If not , we examined the authors ' websites , did a web search , examined popular code repositories such as and , to see if the relevant code could be found . In a final attempt , we emailed the authors of each paper for which code could not be found , asking them to direct us to the location of the source . In cases when code was eventually recovered , we also attempted to build and execute it . At this point we stopped -- we did not go as far as to attempt to verify the correctness of the published results . Here is a summary of their findings : Total papers examined : 613 Papers that appeared to be backed by source code ( not purely theoretical ) : 515 Of these 515 papers , 105 were excluded from consideration so that the resulting set of papers had no overlapping author lists . That leaves 410 papers , with results as follows : Papers with link to source in the paper : 85 Papers not in above category , where source was found via web search : 65 Papers where author shared source following email request : 81 Papers where author declined to share source following email request : 149 Papers where author did not respond to email requests for source : 30 More details of methodology and results , as well as all the data and other materials used in this study , may be found at <URL> . There is an " Anecdotes " section appended to this tech report , which I think you may find very interesting , as it relates to some of the other points in your question . It documents the author 's struggles to get authors to give up their source code :)
end question
start question
Will sitting for the IELTS Academic module void the validity of my previous General Training module score ?
For the best information you could <URL> That said , from reading the <URL> ( pages 3-5 ) on their website the two tests have some sections that apply to the both GT and Academic tests which are speaking and listening . They then have 2 modules that are different for each test , which are reading and writing . They are also used for two different purposes IELTS Academic is for test takers wishing to study at undergraduate or postgraduate levels , and for those seeking professional registration . IELTS General Training is for test takers wishing to migrate to an English-speaking country ( Australia , Canada , New Zealand , UK ) , and for those wishing to train or study at below degree level From this it would seem unusual that the results from one test would void the other when they are both different tests . Edit based on OP comment : After the OP contacted IELTS thay said that ' they are both separate results and it will be your choice entirely which one you wish to present when applying to institution 's . ' which confirms that one test would not void the other .
What field are you in ? In mine ( theoretical computer science ) , conference papers get rejected all the time : the better conferences tend to have acceptance rates of around 25-35 % , and <URL> ( thanks to ff524 for the link ) . It 's easy to judge what the best papers are , and accept those ; it 's easy to judge what the worst papers are , and reject those . For everything in the middle , it very much comes down to how enthusiastic the referees were and whether or not at least one member of the programme committee was willing to stand up and argue for your paper being accepted . Assuming your paper was n't one of the obvious-rejects , there 's a decent chance that , if you resubmitted it unaltered to a different conference of about the same standard , it would get accepted . Hopefully , the referee reports made some constructive comments so you can improve the paper before resubmitting it , and have an even better chance . ( Note that I would n't recommend resubmitting unaltered , unless you got no useful advice at all from the referees . As Paul Garrett points out in the comments , it 's not unusual for at least one of the same referees to see the paper next time it 's submitted and it 's rather irksome to see one 's advice ignored . )
All I know is what I want to see when I visit an academic 's member page : Their name and a picture ( to confirm it 's them ) Contact details Their rank and position How long they have been working in the group A full list of publications with links to full-texts and a good . bib entry A short bio / summary of work , including service and awards Some teaching information ( if applicable ) Supervision details ( if applicable : whom they 're supervising or they 've supervised ) Project information ( which projects are they funded from/P . I. of , etc. ) Keep it professional , clean and brief . You may want to list details like publications on a separate linked page if they are too long/cumbersome .
The best source for CS jobs in the US is the <URL> . They maintain a <URL> that AFAIK most departments post to .
A musical score is cited like a book in this style . Here 's an example from <URL> - The footnote is in the form Composer First Name Last , Name of Musical Work ( City , State : Publisher , Year ) . e.g. , Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart , Eine kleine Nachthmusik , K. 525 ( Bryn Mawr , PA : Theodore Presser , 1960 ) . The bibliography is in the form Composer Last Name , First . Name of Musical Work . City , State ( if city is n't well known ) : Publisher , Year . e.g. , Mozart , Wolfgang Amadeus . Eine kleine Nachtmusik , K. 525 . Bryn Mawr , PA : Theodore Presser , 1960 . ( The <URL> has additional information on various special cases . )
There 's no absolute here -- it really depends on the program in question . Some departments are stricter about cutoffs than others . It depends a lot on the number of applications they receive , and how selective they need to be . However , I know that many good departments do n't screen on GPA alone . However , even if you 're GPA is not " elite , " that 's not the end of the world , so long as you have the research experience and the letters of recommendation to support you . ( A student from our department was recently admitted to a top-10 engineering program in the US on the basis of his research experience -- his GPA was pedestrian at best . )
There is no definite minimum GRE score ( other than the smallest possible score on the test ) for any program , unless that program explicitly has adopted one . If they do n't mention it on their website , you could try calling or emailing their graduate coordinator and asking them . In all , here are the main possibilities , and the reality varies by institution : Case A ) There is no minimum , and they consider all applications . Case B ) There is a minimum , and they will tell you . Case C ) There is a minimum , but it is a secret . Case D ) There is no formal minimum , but there is a de facto minimum in that they almost never ( or never ) actually accept someone below a score of X , even though they technically say there is no minimum . In the end , this is the same as Case C above . In practice , the most selective institutions will occasionally mention " averages " like 80 % percentile or 90 % percentile - but without a standard deviation that 's not really very informative . It is also the case that many people view GRE scores differently depending on your country of origin , so it is not necessarily meaningful or helpful to know anything like averages . In the end , the advice for the GRE is : do as well as you can without harming some other aspects of your application ( do n't let your grades slide just to study for the GRE ) , and as always try to have the best overall application packet to maximize your chances .
It happens when the authors chose to do so ! Journals do not impose the order of authors in the authors list . They usually give guidelines ( or policies ) on authorship standards , i.e. who should be co-author and who should not , but they leave the ordering up to the authors themselves . Now , different fields have different customs . In physics and chemistry , alphabetical ordering is very rare ( used for example in consortium publications ) , while in mathematics alphabetical ordering is more commonly , but not exclusively , used . Unless there is a footnote clarifying the authors ' respective contributions , you can not definitely tell which system they used .
As a non-native English speaker , I found the use of linking words lists very inspiring . I printed <URL> and carry it with me along with the paper draft of my thesis for immediate access . I also took an afternoon to brush up on my English ( which , I believe , was already fine to begin with ) and ended up reading most sections on this <URL> . In particular , I paid special attention to the page on <URL> , and it might help you too . On this page , they show how you can turn this hard-to-follow paragraph : The ancient Egyptians were masters of preserving dead people 's bodies by making mummies of them . Mummies several thousand years old have been discovered nearly intact . The skin , hair , teeth , fingernails and toenails , and facial features of the mummies were evident . It is possible to diagnose the disease they suffered in life , such as smallpox , arthritis , and nutritional deficiencies . The process was remarkably effective . Sometimes apparent were the fatal afflictions of the dead people : a middle-aged king died from a blow on the head , and polio killed a child king . Mummification consisted of removing the internal organs , applying natural preservatives inside and out , and then wrapping the body in layers of bandages . into this nicer one The ancient Egyptians were masters of preserving dead people 's bodies by making mummies of them . In short , mummification consisted of removing the internal organs , applying natural preservatives inside and out , and then wrapping the body in layers of bandages . And the process was remarkably effective . Indeed , mummies several thousand years old have been discovered nearly intact . Their skin , hair , teeth , fingernails and toenails , and facial features are still evident . Their diseases in life , such as smallpox , arthritis , and nutritional deficiencies , are still diagnosable . Even their fatal afflictions are still apparent : a middle-aged king died from a blow on the head ; a child king died from polio . There are others resources grouped into " Word &amp; Sentence Level " , " Paragraph Level " , " Essay &amp; Research Paper Level " . Finally , if you need help writing transition paragraphs between sections , I 'm not sure whether resources exist about this . I would suggest thinking about the high-level view of your work and reminding yourself ( and the reader ) why the previous section exists , why we are going to start the next one , and how they are connected within the big picture . During this paragraph , imagine your reader all of a sudden stops and says : " why the hell am I reading this already ? " -- this is your chance to remind them .
First , you can always research anything you want on your own time and your own money . Thus , I assume that your question boils down to what range of research topics will I be able to get paid for ? That depends heavily on : Your level of ability . If you are sufficiently outstanding you can get awards that will fund you to research whatever you want at almost any career stage . For instance , grad students who have , say , a government fellowship ( in the US these are things like NSF , or DOE CSGF ) are often given a lot more leeway to pursue their own research agenda . But such fellowships are rare and highly competitive . What 's more , almost any professor will be willing to take such a student . At the other end of the pool , if you are a relatively weak student it may be difficult to even find an advisor , and when you do they will probably require you to follow their research plan . Similarly , a young professor who gets a CAREER award can more easily follow their interests . Your communication skills . If you can give persuasive presentations and write excellent grant proposals , you will be able to obtain more funding for the projects that interest you and therefore be free to work on them . You may also be able to buy yourself out of teaching responsibilities and so spend more time on research . Of course , this is intertwined with # 1 above . The nature of the research itself . In experimental or observational areas , you need to buy equipment . If you want to study gravitational waves ( observationally ) , you will need a lot of money -- or collaborators with a lot of money -- to get started . Finally , let 's talk about career stage . The three factors above are operative at every career stage . There are brilliant grad students who can work on just what they want because of their talent , and there are tenured professors who can hardly do research at all because they are required to spend nearly all their time teaching ( this may also be a choice -- research is not the top priority for everyone ) . That said , on average your freedom to direct your own research increases at each successive stage . The " restrictions " at each stage are well illustrated by the comic linked in the comments above .
How much do I get from it ( as the article 's writer ) ? Nothing . Moreover , through subscription fees , your university is very possibly paying a substantial amount of money for access to your work .
Is there any way to turn the gaps into strengths as part of your narrative in the statement of purpose ? If so , that is likely better than separating them in an appendix . For example , if you spent time in industry , did it give you a better appreciation of why you wanted to return to studies ? If you took time off for personal or family reasons , did it give you time to reflect or experiences that have shaped why you want to return to graduate school ? More mature students who are in a graduate program because they really understand what they want out of it are often highly appreciated by professors . If that is you , then embrace the gaps in your transcript and let them be ( a small ) part of your main narrative .
Write a nice thank you letter Keep in touch ; send an email every couple of years to let them know about your recent successes Pay it forward by investing your own time and energy into mentoring others , as time and opportunity permits My " gratitude role model " is a high school summer research student I had a few years ago . First , she gave me a card with a nice message at the end of the program . A year later , she emailed me to let me know that her time in my lab had really meant a lot to her , that she was still pursuing her interest in computer science , and that she was participating in another CS program that summer . From her next email , a year later , I found out that she had accepted an offer of admission ( for undergraduate studies ) from a top-20 computer science department . A couple of months ago , I got an email from my school 's K-12 outreach program ( which had organized her summer in my lab ) , informing me that this student had reached out to them to ask if she could volunteer in their programs this summer , while she 's back in town . Working with students can be a thankless task ; but the students like the one I described above really keep me going , and make me feel like it is time well spent . I can not imagine a better way to be thanked .
I agree with your inclination : explaining your research programme , arguably the most important part of a tenure-track job talk , at the end seems counter-productive , to say the least . Moreover , I would definitely not spend only 5 minutes of your talk on your programme . 10 minutes seems like the absolute minimum in a one-hour job talk . More generally , job talks tend to consist of five parts : The " About Me " part that usually kicks off the talk . Keep this short , as it is essentially pretty boring for the audience . The " Intro " of the research field . Explain your audience what you are actually doing . Here , the point is not so much to sell your own work within the field , but to sell the field itself to the faculty . Your " Research Agenda " within the field . As I mentioned above , arguably the most important part of the talk . The biggest mistake here is to step into what I call the " parameter optimization " trap - making it seem like your research agenda consists primarily of small incremental improvements of your PhD thesis . The " Zoom In " . Take out one part of your work , and explain in detail what you have been doing . The " Outlook " . Wrap the talk up with an outlook . Where is your field going , where are you going , how would your joining change the research of the faculty ? One problem is knowing how far in-depth each of these segments should be . My PhD advisor used to say that bullets ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) need to be easy enough to understand that every CS faculty can follow , but deep enough that it still perceived as important and valuable research . For bullet ( 4 ) , it is ok ( maybe expected ) that the details are not all that accessible anymore for faculty working in very different fields . However , at Bullet ( 5 ) , you need to pick up your entire audience again .
As @NateEldredge mentioned , technically research is probably not part of the duties of an Adjunct Lecturer . That being said , you could explain that as an adjunct it is natural for you to develop your CV further so that you may be considered for teaching higher-level courses , increase in rank , service on interesting committees , etc. , in which case research will be important .
If you copy the review text from the web into your own thesis it is a clear case of plagiarism . When you write academic text where there is a need to provide the sources for your information ( as references ) you need to have read the sources . It is not ok to quote sources without having even looked at them . In very rare cases , may it be acceptable to quote a source quoted by someone else in a publication . These cases may include very hard to find literature or literature in a different language . But , such secondary references should not be used unless deemed absolutely unavoidable . If you need to cite the on-line review , you will need to look at how web-sources are cited at your school ( if they are allowed ) . you can also look at the recommendations at American Psychological Association ( APA ; very appropriate for you ) and their <URL> . You may find many other bits and pieces that are of interest to you .
In my experience on many search committees I 've never looked in detail at the coursework or grades of an applicant . We have however required transcripts as proof of the academic degrees that the applicants claim .
The customary way to do this is to refer in the manual to the paper . You are probably not allowed to copy-paste the text of the published paper . If you are concerned about the paywall , many journals allow you to use/distribute the manuscript which you submitted to the journal ( prior to editing ) - but you should verify this first for Nature Methods .
There is nothing wrong with the word " via , " and in fact I personally have a weakness for it : sometimes it just feels more elegant and specific than alternatives like " through " or " by means of . " I also , however , have a weakness for a lot of somewhat archaic phrases , due to spending a lot of my childhood reading old books . The general principle which I think academic writing should subscribe to is Orwell 's notion of " transparent prose , " in which the words are as clear as a window , letting one through to the ideas with minimal obstruction . Using too many unusual words , such as a lot of " via " and " thus " can be distracting , particularly for an international audience . Sometimes , though , a word is simply fit and elegant in its context , and there is no reason to avoid using it .
There is probably not a single truth here but I would make the following statements : Having a good publication record is the basis for basically everything in academia . The question is then what is good ? As a fresh PhD student citations will be near zero ( I am guessing in most fields ) . Having publications in citation index listed journals is therefore a definite plus . Having several as first author is a must ( see <URL> for a discussion ) I would also argue that having papers not part of the PhD ( even if not first authored author ) is a plus since it indicates activity . As a new post-graduate you need to improve the publication record as best you can . You need to show that you do your own new work but also be part of collaborations in some mix . Building a publication record takes time and will partly be up to your own efforts and in some way also by chance ( you never know what opportunities lie ahead ) . To get employed , you can basically only compete with a good publication list . Everyone knows this takes time and I am guessing all fields have their own " standards " as to what is a reasonable publication rate . In my field where papers are based on field investigations , 2-4 papers per year is considered acceptable , the longer-term average should be towards 3-5 . The rate is thus an aspect that should not be over-looked . Typically you will have a dip post-PhD because it takes time to build or get into a new environment and to start writing new papers . Having something on the back burner for that period may thus be useful to bridge the gap . As a final note , the citations will be more and more important after a few years . In my field it usually takes a few years to start getting citations because the results will inspire someone to apply for money , go into the field for new investigations , and then write papers . In a lab or theoretical environment such response times may be lower so check with seniors in your field what applies . A good question to ask is perhaps if there are ways to promote ones work to increase citation records , I do not have the answer to that question . Bottom line : publish in as good journals as possible . Good quality counts but a reasonable publication rate is also necessary . Citations will come with time .
end question
start question
How to respond to the teacher who puts the feet up while talking to student ?
I 've done my PhD in Japan , and have had much contact with professors in America and Japan . The academic relationship and work culture in both countries are very different . In America it is generally not regarded as bad when someone puts their feet on the table while talking to you . I had bosses and advisors in the US who did this . However , in Japan , the advisor-student relationship is more respectful and professional . I would like to tell you that you should ask the professor to refrain from putting their feet on the table , but if they do it in their office , it is pretty much up to them . Since the office is the professor 's space , I do not think it is your friend 's business to ask them not to do it .
It is down to the supervisor , i myself believe any extra research projects adds a LOT to your own skills . Being taken out of your comfort zone and learning new skills improves yourself as a researcher . Besides how much " real " work time can you devote to one PHD before your productivity falls off dramatically . I see a lot of PHD 's concentrate soo much on their project that they do n't spend enough time learning new things that makes them so much more productive in the long run . However , aimlessly going to lectures where you do n't apply those skills is less worthwhile than doing a project . Having said that , if you know a good lecturer whose lecture series illuminates a previously difficult and unknown area , and those gems are out there , then it is not wasted time . Devoting your time to a job unless it does teach you new skills may be pushing it .
While I agree that it would be OK to open a pdf of the thesis to show a specific part as an answer to a question I would like to add : Opening up the thesis and show something in addition to the slides in the middle of the talk would show that the talk was not well prepared . So do n't do that and prepare your talk such that this will not be necessary . Having answers and arguments to questions ready without going to the thesis would appear better . Of course , nobody expects you to know every word from your thesis but it is expected that you know all results of your thesis and also all your arguments . Opening the thesis when a question like " on page X in Theorem Y you state that ... " comes is totally OK . Especially , since this gives the rest of the audience the chance to follow the discussion . But finally : It 's a thesis defense . It usually not an event where anybody fails terribly . If you know what you have written about and know what you are talking about nothing bad will happen .
Yes , I would suggest you include these in the CV for a graduate application . It probably wo n't make a huge difference in admissions , but it is evidence that you are interested and involved in the research community in your field . You can list them in any way that seems appropriate ; there 's no strict standard format for a CV . You probably have sections for " Education " and " Work experience " and maybe " Publications " ; make a similar section entitled " Conferences attended " or " Conference participation " or something like that . Include the title , date and location of each conference , and maybe a short sentence discussing the scope of the meeting and your role . ( As discussed in the question you linked : later in your career , you will probably want to take this section out . )
A book or paper on writing is a good introduction but can usually not solve everything . Reading a book does not mean you can reproduce what it teaches , particularly with writing since it is something that needs lots of practise . One problem is that writing is a question of both knowing how to structure the science but also a question of building and formulating the text , the latter being a language issue . So it is usually relatively easy to teach students how the technical side works and provide explanations for why . Teaching students how to be concise and precise is another question and without lots of practise it is quite difficult to get anywhere . During a thesis much of the language issues are ironed out by constant revisions sugested by the advisor . I also point out to all my students that writing is a life-long learning process and thatit is never to late to develop and change your writing . However , I have some sources I fall back to : Katz , M.J. From research to manuscript . A guide to scientific writing . Springer Day , R.A. and Gastel , B. , How to write and publish a scientific paper . Cambridge The <URL> OWL is also very useful . For language ( English ) I have ( aside of Strunk &amp; White ) found Glasman-Deal , H. Science research writing for non-native speakers of English of use . There are of course lots of books around but all are definitely not good . A final gem is a short paper on abstracts Landes , K. , <URL> . Bulletin Of The American Association Of Petroleum Geologists . 50 ( 9 ) , 1992-1999 . Which provides an excellent description of the abstract .
<URL> . The preceeding link is one of many stories covering that angle . The best graph describing how bad it is comes from <URL> : <URL> The upshot of most of these is that employers have a psychological bias towards employed people . Whether this is " fair " or " appropriate " or even " smart " not is really not the question , the finding is pretty difficult to refute : you are far more likely to land a job if you are currently gainfully employed . To bring this back to your original question , I would strongly recommend you begin your job search before you leave the program .
Do n't worry about it too much , just say thank you . In person or over email are both fine : getting a good recommendation letter is a big deal for you , but writing recommendation letters for good students is a part of normal routine for a professor .
If a person receives an invitation , the responsibility to deliver will be with that person . That does not necessarily mean that person will be first author although I suspect it will most frequently be the case . There are many posts on academia.sx that deal with first authorships so I do not think I need to replicate many good answers here . Suffice it to say that you need to discuss the authorship with your advisor . Unfortunately , this should have been done early on because lack of an agreement on authorship ordering early on is what usually leads to conflicts in the end . I am not saying this applies in your case but the fact that you ask seems to go in that direction . For authorship and contributorship discussions I can point you to two posts in <URL> and <URL> . There are many other sources but they provide the core ideas on author/contributorship . It is easy to agree with these ideas , more difficult to live by them , particularly in a student-advisor relationship .
Aeismail 's answer points out that you need to foster contacts with people who can write letters of recommendation testifying to your potential as a researcher . This is a definitely a good answer . However , it is hard to get good credible recommendation letters in China . You need to have not only strong academic performance but also strong social background to get them . The same is true for internship opportunities . When there are more than a hundred applicants competing for 3 internships , the best 3 academic performers with the strongest social background will get them . ( The population in China exceeds 1.3 billion ) . My answer to the question . How can I leave a good impression on the Admissions Committee ? Besides high GPA , GRE and TOEFL scores , ( and possibly winning a competition , publishing papers , abundant internship experiences ) and good credible recommendation letters , the only thing I can think of is an excellent Statement of Purpose . Use that statement to convince the admissions committee why you 'll be an excellent student in their school . Why are you interested in finance or financial engineering ? What have you learned in undergraduate school ? What particular research program in that school you are interested ? What do you hope you can learn from that school after you get the master degree from them ? What do you plan to do after master degree ? Etc.etc . Hopefully , they will be convinced by this statement and then accept you . This is my 5 cents worth . I sincerely hope experts here who are currently in the admission committees can give us more and effective answers .
Universities , and departments , often view Masters degree students as something of a cash-cow , so there are far less funding options than are available to PhD students . That being said , there are a number of options you have before turning to family : There may be a limited number of TA/RAships available to Masters students . The benefits will depend on the university , but will likely include a modest salary , and will possibly include benefits like health insurance or tuition remission . You can work your way through it , viewing tuition as just a major life expense . This of course depends on the local job market . You can take on debt . Many people I know took out student loans in order to pay for their Masters . Whether or not this is desirable and economically justified is another question , but it is always an option .
How acknowledgments work is always a bit of a judgment call , but to me the following principle seems reasonable . You are free to acknowledge anyone in any paper as long as what you acknowledge them for is factually accurate . If you have any reason to believe that the acknowledged party might take issue with the factual accuracy of what you write in your acknowledgments , it would be honorable to show them a draft of the paper and ask for their blessing on the wording of the acknowledgment . If this causes them to ask to be omitted from the acknowledgments , then it seems reasonable to honor this request unless you feel that removing this acknowledgment compromises academic integrity . ( For instance , if you are including significant work of the acknowledged party , then just because they do n't want you to mention that does not necessarily make it okay to do so . This creates a sticky wicket that other questions and answers on this site have addressed . ) I believe it follows from the principle that whether acknowledgments are acceptable depends more on what they acknowledge you for than whether they drop your name or not . For instance , suppose they thank you for " helpful conversations " . If you did in fact speak ( or write ... ) to them about their work , then if they say the conversation was helpful , how can you argue ? I think that most savvy academics understand that just dropping someone 's name in the acknowledgments does not mean that the paper contains their imprimatur . Nevertheless it is shady to acknowledge someone -- especially someone very famous and eminent -- purely for the cachet that their name may convey to less than savvy readers . <URL> a famous review of Marilyn vos Savant 's book on Fermat 's Last Theorem that calls out the author along these lines : she acknowledged some very famous mathematicians , who when contacted by her surely did not say anything to indicate that the material in her book was correct ( not only does it contain errors , but it contains errors that any practitioner or serious student of mathematics would regard as bizarre ) . In the case at hand : I think the OP would be within her rights to mention that she would rather not be acknowledged in the paper . Whether she wants to indicate that this is because she still finds the work to be significantly flawed depends on all kinds of social and political factors beyond the scope of this answer . As to that I would only say : in my opinion , simply very politely asking for your name to be removed from the paper without getting into why is probably a higher percentage strategy than indicating that the work is still problematic . Added : Let me add that the principle above is meant to be on the minimalist side . In practice , if you think that someone is not going to appreciate being acknowledged in your paper for whatever reason , then unless there are academic integrity issues involved in omitting the acknowledgment it seems wise to do so . Once I acknowledged a friend of mine in a preprint in a way which was factually accurate but nevertheless embarrassing to him : he simply did not want to be associated with something that he viewed as intellectually trivial . I took his name out of the later drafts of the paper . This incident has made me think more carefully about how acknowledgments will be received by the acknowledged party .
I would go with professor B . If the admissions committee wants to know about your grades , they 'll check your transcript . You want your LORs to give them insight into who you are as a student , what your specific strengths are , etc. . This information is supposed to supplement your transcript , and may even be more important than your grades for certain programs . The fact that professor B 1 ) agreed to write you the letter and 2 ) asked for more details , suggests that he 'll write a good letter for you . The LORs I have read typically do not mention grades , and if a professor knows you well the difference between an A or a B will likely not sway their letter . Edit : I even asked a professor who knew me extremely well to directly address the most obvious weakness in my application , to make sure that would n't raise questions with the committee . You want your application to represent you well , and your grades are only a small part of who you are as a student ( depending on the program you 're applying to ) .
I recently posted a <URL> about being on the other side of this scenario - a professor in my university offered to take on a student who had already agreed to work with me ( and had been working with me for the previous year already ) . You 'll notice from reading that question and its responses that while I was a bit annoyed with the professor , I was n't upset with the student . In fact , I advised the student to choose the advisor he thought would be best for him , and gave him a good recommendation to the other professor in case that 's what he chose . That 's because the student is supposed to act in his/her own best interest ( while still being responsible and professional , of course ) . It 's not being selfish , it 's being smart . The first professor should n't get upset with you for pursuing an opportunity that is better for you - if he/she does , then you really do n't want to work with someone like that , anyways . So , go talk to the second professor : " I was thinking some more about your offer to advise me on my thesis and I have reconsidered my original decision . Is the offer still available ? " If he/she says yes , accept the offer and go talk to the first professor : " I really appreciate your offer to advise me on my thesis , but I 've decided to work with X instead . Thanks , again . "
Generally speaking , you should not put any institution as your affiliation unless you are currently based there , or did the work while you were based there . In this case , unless you did the research while at Linkoping , you should not give Linkoping as your affiliation . See , for example , <URL> . If it helps , it 's worth remembering that the " affiliation " is in many ways an " address " - it evolved out of simply giving an address at which you could be contacted , and some journals still refer to it this way . It 's not unknown in some fields for independent researchers to give their home address , but it 's perhaps more common just to say " independent " . If you have no current affiliation , you can simply say " Independent researcher " , or similar , and leave it at that ( adding an email address is good , if not asked for elsewhere in the paper ) .
If you want to be completely safe , I would answer something along the lines of : " This is outside my area of expertise . I recommend that you consult the career center on campus ( insert contact information to career center ) " . If , however , you want to actually give them advice , I would give it in a very neutral manner , where you could substitute every mention of " adult videos " by " video of student kicking a puppy " ( or other potentially career damaging Google result ) . If you keep it on that very professional , neutral level , it should n't get you in trouble ( note : I 'm not a lawyer ) . Write your response , and then try the " puppy kicking test " . If the email still makes sense , you 're probably ( again , I 'm not a lawyer ) safe .
This is an invitation to discuss your plans for obtaining external funding . They want your answers to questions like the following : What agencies fund research like yours ? What projects do you have that you think would be successful in gaining external funding ? Why do you think you would be successful ? Can you point to similar ( but not too similar ) projects that have been funded ? Why would a funding agency agree your work is worthy of support ? Why would they agree that you are a qualified person to carry out the work , and that your project is likely to actually produce useful results ? How would you convince them ? What supporting evidence would you use ? How large would those grants be likely to be ? How do you know ? When do you propose to begin applying for such grants ? Is there anything specific that needs to happen first ? Do you have collaborators in mind with whom you might co-apply ? Have you discussed this with them ?
For typical journals , you do n't actually have to implement all the reviewer 's suggestions to get the paper published . After all , it 's not like the reviewer necessarily knows better than you do what is going to make your paper publishable . ( If multiple reviewers all make the same suggestion , that 's a different story . ) If you have a good reason not to do something suggested by a reviewer , you can not do it and point out in your response to the editor why you made that decision . The important thing is to make it clear that you did n't simply decide to ignore part of the reviewer 's report . If you 're going to avoid implementing any of their recommendations , you do need to justify it . It then falls to the editor to decide whether the paper is still publishable without that particular suggestion being implemented . I 'd add that saying that an addition to the paper would be too large and would justify an entire followup study on its own is a valid response . Even a reasonably common one , I would think . Reviewers have n't done the research themselves ; they do n't know how much work an extension would take , and if you say it would be too involved , there 's a pretty good chance the editor believes that you know better than the reviewer on that point .
As you become established as a scholar , you will receive more and more of such invitations , most of which are either scams or trash publications attempting to trick you into giving them content . A small fraction , however , will actually come from legitimate colleagues who are inviting you to a special issue , editorial , or similar such opportunity . Thus , when receiving an invitation , you should thus begin by evaluating the quality of the venue and the person who is inviting you , just as you would if you were choosing where to submit without an invitation . Be aware , however , that some disreputable publications will lie about the identity of people involved , and that some careless academics may have been tricked into lending their name to disreputable publications . In the specific case of Lambert Academic Publishing , I will note that <URL> as well as a number of other highly critical analyses , including on <URL> and <URL> . You can make up your own mind about their credibility , but I would n't recommend soiling your C.V. by publication with them . Finally , to answer your question about arXiv vs. other publications : being in arXiv is fine for being accessible and citable . If your work is good , however , I would recommend submitting to a reputable peer-reviewed journal . If you are published in such , it will improve the reputation , notability , and value of your publication .
Yes , it is appropriate to ask the questioner to repeat the question , prefaced by : " I 'm sorry but I did n't understand the question . Can you repeat it or rephrase it ? " If you still do n't understand it , you might ask someone else in the audience to restate it or rephrase it . Some people at academic conferences are not good at asking clear , direct questions , even when they are native English speakers with normal dialect . I have asked people to repeat or rephrase questions for this reason , and I am a native English speaker .
From your question , I am concerned that you have not talked to the " author " about the manuscript . You must get permission from all authors prior to submitting a manuscript . It is not acceptable to submit a manuscript without permission from all authors nor is it acceptable to leave an author off just because they have left the group . As for what is acceptable for an email address and affiliation , almost anything goes ( as long as it is not misleading ) . I personally think universities and research groups should give permanent forwarding addresses to eliminate/reduce these issues . In terms of the affliation , you should also ask the author . It is not uncommon to list an affiliation as the company/university where the work was done and provide a new corresponding address . As for email , it is common to list only the current address . This might be a new corporate email address , assuming it is appropriate . If not , a personal email or a new personal/professional email address is fine . Again , just ask the author and do what they want .
end question
start question
Citation of a website : How to determine the year ?
The Publication Date may be in the webpage 's meta data or source There may be date information contained in the <URL> in the page source . If you are not using a tool ( see below ) to extract this information , you can <URL> and attempt to interpret it . There are many different ways publication date information may be stored in meta tags . The most common ones will begin with . The number of ways in which an appropriate date may be stored in in these tags is just too numerous to cover in a single post . If you are not familiar with what these might look like , a tool ( see below ) to extract the data will be quite helpful . Extracting the date from meta tags , and picking the correct date ( there may be several ) , can be complex . How , exactly , to do so varies from website to website . In addition , each site may change their format from time to time . If you are going to be referencing more than one or two webpages a well maintained tool to extract the reference information will be very helpful . As an example , <URL> ( randomly selected for testing some time ago ) , which does not display a date if you have JavaScript turned off ( dates are displayed if JavaScript is turned on ) , contains appropriate publication dates in the following tags ( there are more tags that contain dates that are not appropriate ) : That page also contains the publication and update dates located in multiple tags , links , and various other tags . While it is possible to extract this type of information by hand , it is usually much more effective allow a tool to do so for you . The tools mentioned in the last section of this answer should do a reasonable job of extracting the publication date from most webpages . However , if you do n't have one of those available , here is a <URL> that will display at the top of the page all tags , except and , which contain a date in YYYY - [ M ] M - [ D ] D format ; or in English language Month , [ D ] D , YYYY ; or [ D ] D Month YYYY ( It does not show text which is part o the displayed text ) :1,2 In case you need to look through all the text , including displayed text , for dates , the following bookmarklet will display just the dates contained in the HTML . It will not show any context for these dates . You should be careful when using the results of this bookmarklet as you will need to determine why a particular date is in the text . But it may provide you with some hints as to what you should be looking for . The formats displayed include those in the previous bookmarklet plus YYYY month/season ; month/season YYYY ) ; [ M ] M - [ D ] D-YYYY ; [ D ] D - [ M ] M-YYYY ; and YYYYMMDD . Duplicates are not displayed . In addition , the list is sorted from earliest to latest ( except some formats ) . Given the much broader set of things being searched for , on some pages there will be some items found which are not dates . You will need to use your own judgement . This bookmarklet is quite long .1,2 A bookmarklet to remove the date text added by the above two bookmarklets : The above bookmarklets are not the best tool for the task of finding the correct date of a page . A purpose-built referencing tool can devote significantly more logic to obtaining , formatting , and displaying such dates with the context needed for you to determine the correct one to use . Last resort : use the <URL> If the page does not contain an explicit publishing/creation date in either the displayed text , or the meta data in the page source ( viewed either by hand or using a referencing tool ) , you should include the Last Modification Date . The Last Modification Date is the date the publisher , the company hosting the page , is claiming as the date the page was last modified ( i.e. the date it was published ) . It should be used as a last resort , if no other date is available . It should not your first choice for a date . The Last Modification Date is usually the date/time at which the primary file for the page was changed which is determined by the modification <URL> stored with that file . This date may , or may not , be accurate . It may only represent the date and time to which the clock was set on the system where that file is stored at the last point the file was modified . It may , or may not , consider any dates on additional resources which are loaded onto the page from other locations ( e.g. images , or dynamically by JavaScript ) . While it is not guaranteed to be accurate , it is the " publication date " provided by the publisher ( the company hosting the webpage ) . For dynamically generated webpages , the Last Modification Date may be the current day and time . While that might not be the information you desire , it is the date/time the page you are viewing was assembled from its base content and presented to you . The system serving the webpage to you may be composing the page from various different sources ( e.g. an article fetched from a database which is combined with today 's banner , a header , a footer and appropriate ads ) . While it would be preferable to have the date of the primary content you are referenc
First , it may depend on your field , but at least in mine ( physics and chemistry ) , it is rare for papers to generate comments or replies , and really extraordinary for a paper to be followed by multiple comments . ( The editor usually lets the original authors reply to the comment , however . ) Some publishers provide links to the comments and replies on the webpage for the original paper . Otherwise , you can locate those comments using the following criteria : they are published in the same journal , or in a preprint server ( like <URL> ) their title includes " comment on " or " reply to " ( or other such publisher-dependent prefix that you need to identify ) Finally , you should get the list of all newer papers citing the original paper , and check them out . If you 're investigating a paper in depth , you 'll do that anyway :)
It 's generally acceptable to e-mail senior scientists a copy of your paper . Say who you are and who your advisor is , describe your paper very briefly , and tell them that if they have any comments you 'd be grateful to hear them . Most will ignore you , do n't take it personally -- it 's not something that will " count against you " , unless you do it too often , or to people who 's research has nothing to do with your paper . Usually this just means they 're too busy or have nothing in particular to say . But you might get a couple of interesting and/or supportive replies . I did , when I was a grad student .
The Sherpa/Romeo database ( <URL> ) will give you all the information about journal policies concerning self-archiving .
In the US , various funding agencies ( NSF , NIH , DOE , ... ) have fellowships you can apply to for predoctoral students . They tend to be very competitive compared to internal sources ( Teaching Assistantships , Research Assistantships , Graduate Assistantships ) , but they may offer a higher stipend . Depending on your field , professional societies also offer fellowships : American heart association , Whitaker foundation , Gates foundation . Industry also offers some in association with various schools : Siemens , Raytheon , Johnson &amp; Johnson .
No matter whether you quote the list verbatim or paraphrase it , I 'm quite sure you do n't need to make it a big deal . Quoting a list of bullets is n't really quoting long pieces of text that would need a note about being a verbatim quote ; I would say it 's more like quoting a theorem in maths . I would therefore go for one of the following : Jones [ Jon15 ] categorizes things as follows : LIST Jones categorizes things as follows [ Jon15 ] : LIST ( Jones , 2015 ) categorizes things as follows : LIST etc. . Use the one that is consistent with your citation habits .
Yes and no . You can only use your Pell grant money for summer classes if you 've already been enrolled in classes the previous year : To be eligible for using this federal aid for their summer courses , students must have completed 24 credit hours toward their degree programs during the prior fall and spring semesters and have received passing grades , and they must enroll in at least 6 hours of courses during the summer . So if you want to attend summer classes in 2016 , you had to have 24 credit hours of schoolwork done at the same institution during the 2015-2016 academic year . Campus Explorer , <URL> .
The UK graduate schools are officially ranked through <URL> ( being currently phased out to be replaced by <URL> ) , so you can get a full list of programs that are of any worth <URL> . In the US , rankings are produced from time to time by the National Research Council . <URL> is from 2009 . The methodology and reporting format are beyond weird , but at least the list of programs is useful ( albeit difficult to navigate in the Excel file format ; I found my area , statistics , under " Physical sciences " , for instance , which is a very distant shot ) . The <URL> were done with involvement of real statisticians , so I trust them better .
You 've chosen a journal that looks like it is well suited to your background and topics . By itself , the length of your paper is not related to whether it is important or publishable . There are three things you can do to test whether your potential topics/papers are worth writing and submitting . First , read many articles in this journal , similar journals , and also conferences . You are n't just looking for articles on the same topic or technique as yours . Instead , you are learning about what constitutes a good research paper in your field . Based on your reading , write a detailed outline of your proposed paper ( s ) , and also an abstract . The second thing you can do is to write a version of your paper ( s ) as a " Working Paper " and then circulate them to peers or colleagues for feedback . You can post this to <URL> and post links on social media or mailing lists to get broader feedback . This approach has two advantages . You sometimes only know the value of a research paper after you finish writing it . And you 'll get the most useful feedback from people when they have a finished paper in their hands , as opposed to reacting to a concept . The third thing you can do , building on the previous , is to submit a paper or two ( each revised based on earlier feedback ) to a journal or conference , and then learn from reviewer comments if they reject you .
There is no automatic solution to this - it is an extremely time-consuming labour , sometimes performed by bibliometricians - and often only by those with access to full editions of either database ( not the web-interfaces , with strict limitations to download sizes ) . It is also a tricky subject , as the defionition of e.g. a statistics paper may differ from what you are actually looking at : journal categories . Papers on any topic are also published in journals not directly related hereto , there are plenty of translational and multi-disciplinary journals as well - in other words , what may appear to be a trivial task is actually very complex .
Update from March 2016 : it seems like ISI Knowledge offers citation counts with person-level self-citations taken out . Any of that should be treated as experimental , of course . Do n't know if this could work for a journal . I do n't think any of the existing systems take out the self-citations . The publishers and journals are not interested in seeing reduced impact factors , so few editorial boards and fewer yet commercial publishers would be interested in anybody producing such rankings . If a discipline has its independent referencing and citations systems , they might be interested in such more objective analysis -- e.g. , economists have their CitEc ( Citations in Economics ) , a part of RePEc ( Research Papers in Economics ) , which does track self-citations ( see the 2012 Nobel prize winners , <URL> and <URL> as examples ... the first one has as many self-citations as the second one , total citations ) . I would venture a guess that mathematicians might have a similar system . But I doubt that natural or social sciences do . The high impact journals are obviously important for publishing , getting good academic jobs and getting tenured . However , impact factor may only tell a part of the story , and some disciplines have reputable journals that may not have the highest possible IFs . Let me take again economics as an example that I am familiar with . In most US departments , you 'd get tenured if you have a paper in either American Economics Review , Quarterly Journal of Economics , or Econometrica . ( The QJE is often said to mostly publish MIT and Harvard folks . ) AER is only 19th in <URL> ( which may be as good as any other list that 's not password protected by ISI ) , and I have never heard about some of these journals . The AER 's impact factor of 2.5 is not even funny for a biologist seeking Science or Nature publications , though -- the impact factors of the latter are what , 30 or so ? I work in industry and tend to care little about the journals outside of my area ( statistics ) ; generally , statistics journals tend to have IFs between 0.25 and 4 . The reality of my particular field ( survey research ) is that people just submit their paper to proceedings of the annual conferences and move on with their paying projects , and do n't have the time to BS back and forth with the reviewers . There are people in academia who need to publish-or-perish , so you would see some typical academic papers with rather small contributions to the knowledge , but their authors either have their own time or slave labor force grad students to write these up . As a guiding rule of what journals to avoid , you can start with commercially published journals and respect the professional organizations publish their journals themselves , without Wiley or Elsevier grabbing them as a source of income ... although I can imagine that coercive citations is what the editorial boards insist on , which may or may not correlate strongly with who publishes a given journal . I have received requests to cite the given journal more ( this is a problem for disciplines with an overproduction of journals fighting each other ; again , in my industry , there are probably four or five decent ones , and they do n't need to fight ) , but tended to ignore them .
When you have such a substantial chunk of information attributable to one source it can be useful to start the text by simply declaring the source . This can be done in the following way ( exact formulation can of course be changed ; I chose Harvard style referencing as an example ) : The following [ x ] paragraphs follow Name ( yyyy ) unless stated otherwise . The formulation can be changed to better blend in with the text by adding details about what the information is about or why this source is good or should be repeated , or both . The " unless stated otherwise " can be omitted if you have no need to add other references in these paragraphs ; I added it for completeness .
I think most reviewers for IEEE Communications Letters are unlikely to visit your source code link and try and validate your code . It 's fairly unusual in this field ( I say this as someone in the same field . ) Certainly the reviewers will not expect access to your code . So if you want to anonymize everything , that would be fine . If you want to preserve the ability of reviewers to access your code ( which is a very good thing ! ) and do n't mind going to a little bit of extra trouble , you could always just upload an anonymized tar.gz archive containing the source code ( without the version control metadata ) to any file sharing site . Then use that URL in the version you submit for review . ( When the paper is accepted , you can update the reference to point to your non-anonymous repository . )
Cite their manual The links to the manuals seem to appear at the reference sections of the respective Wikipedia pages .
A CEng qualification ( it is post-nominal ) is awarded on the accreditation of the engineering experience and qualification achieved . The full specification of the necessary standard is shown in the document entitled <URL> . Although CEng is not a title it does enable you to work towards the Engineering title of <URL> ( pre-nominal ) which is awarded by <URL> . In Academia in the UK it would be expected that researchers and Academics in engineering ( STEM ) hold both professional and academic qualifications and titles as they are part of the education path for professional practicing engineers . Thus only possessing a PhD would make you a less qualified than other applicants or colleagues . For career development it is useful to have a full set of qualifications , including membership of the relevant professional bodies . A BSc and MSc ( in an accredited degree subject ) would normally be considered the academic level necessary for the CEng topped up with an appropriate amount of relevant professional practice . If the PhD contained an appropriate amount of project management and technical engineering content it could satisfy the professional component of the CEng , but not always . Sometimes a period of employment might be needed to top-up . A fee is payable for the application to cover the accreditation of your qualification and experience and then an annual membership fee thereafter . If you stop paying the membership fee you are not considered an active professional and therefore the qualification/title lapses . If you use the qualification/title without paying professional fees then this is considered an act of unprofessionalism . I have a set of such qualifications in computing and use the letters : Eur Ing MBCS CITP CEng in formal academic contexts . It is useful in explaining to students about the paths to qualification and professional practice in our subject . It also shows that the person teaching them is fully qualified to do so , and knows the material from professional practice and not just from books .
The Publication Date may be in the webpage 's meta data or source There may be date information contained in the <URL> in the page source . If you are not using a tool ( see below ) to extract this information , you can <URL> and attempt to interpret it . There are many different ways publication date information may be stored in meta tags . The most common ones will begin with . The number of ways in which an appropriate date may be stored in in these tags is just too numerous to cover in a single post . If you are not familiar with what these might look like , a tool ( see below ) to extract the data will be quite helpful . Extracting the date from meta tags , and picking the correct date ( there may be several ) , can be complex . How , exactly , to do so varies from website to website . In addition , each site may change their format from time to time . If you are going to be referencing more than one or two webpages a well maintained tool to extract the reference information will be very helpful . As an example , <URL> ( randomly selected for testing some time ago ) , which does not display a date if you have JavaScript turned off ( dates are displayed if JavaScript is turned on ) , contains appropriate publication dates in the following tags ( there are more tags that contain dates that are not appropriate ) : That page also contains the publication and update dates located in multiple tags , links , and various other tags . While it is possible to extract this type of information by hand , it is usually much more effective allow a tool to do so for you . The tools mentioned in the last section of this answer should do a reasonable job of extracting the publication date from most webpages . However , if you do n't have one of those available , here is a <URL> that will display at the top of the page all tags , except and , which contain a date in YYYY - [ M ] M - [ D ] D format ; or in English language Month , [ D ] D , YYYY ; or [ D ] D Month YYYY ( It does not show text which is part o the displayed text ) :1,2 In case you need to look through all the text , including displayed text , for dates , the following bookmarklet will display just the dates contained in the HTML . It will not show any context for these dates . You should be careful when using the results of this bookmarklet as you will need to determine why a particular date is in the text . But it may provide you with some hints as to what you should be looking for . The formats displayed include those in the previous bookmarklet plus YYYY month/season ; month/season YYYY ) ; [ M ] M - [ D ] D-YYYY ; [ D ] D - [ M ] M-YYYY ; and YYYYMMDD . Duplicates are not displayed . In addition , the list is sorted from earliest to latest ( except some formats ) . Given the much broader set of things being searched for , on some pages there will be some items found which are not dates . You will need to use your own judgement . This bookmarklet is quite long .1,2 A bookmarklet to remove the date text added by the above two bookmarklets : The above bookmarklets are not the best tool for the task of finding the correct date of a page . A purpose-built referencing tool can devote significantly more logic to obtaining , formatting , and displaying such dates with the context needed for you to determine the correct one to use . Last resort : use the <URL> If the page does not contain an explicit publishing/creation date in either the displayed text , or the meta data in the page source ( viewed either by hand or using a referencing tool ) , you should include the Last Modification Date . The Last Modification Date is the date the publisher , the company hosting the page , is claiming as the date the page was last modified ( i.e. the date it was published ) . It should be used as a last resort , if no other date is available . It should not your first choice for a date . The Last Modification Date is usually the date/time at which the primary file for the page was changed which is determined by the modification <URL> stored with that file . This date may , or may not , be accurate . It may only represent the date and time to which the clock was set on the system where that file is stored at the last point the file was modified . It may , or may not , consider any dates on additional resources which are loaded onto the page from other locations ( e.g. images , or dynamically by JavaScript ) . While it is not guaranteed to be accurate , it is the " publication date " provided by the publisher ( the company hosting the webpage ) . For dynamically generated webpages , the Last Modification Date may be the current day and time . While that might not be the information you desire , it is the date/time the page you are viewing was assembled from its base content and presented to you . The system serving the webpage to you may be composing the page from various different sources ( e.g. an article fetched from a database which is combined with today 's banner , a header , a footer and appropriate ads ) . While it would be preferable to have the date of the primary content you are referenc
The acknowledgements section is really yours to do with as you wish . You can thank anybody who has been of help and support to you , no matter how formal or informal your relationship with them is . You can make the relationship explicit or not , however you prefer . Thus , for example , it is equally valid to write : Thank you to Jane Smith , for all her love and support or Thank you to my girlfriend Jane Smith , for all her love and support
It is not uncommon to have a break doing a PhD program , especially in the U.S. where it normally takes longer than in other countries . A list of reasons to have a gap includes maternity , health conditions , family situations ( in some countries / cultures ) , or even temporary financial reasons . All these explanations seem fair to me , and I would not hold such them against the candidate . What is very important , though , is how ( and whether ) you will address the gap in your cover letter how your supervisor will speak about this in the recommendation letter . If you are open to your colleagues and do not let them down without a reason ( in other words , if you are doing your best given the situation ) , I do not see why the situation itself should be held against you and diminish your chances of future success .
Ideally you want to focus on teaching components that you would not ordinarily notice yourself . I do not have previous experience with teaching consultations , but I can suggest some facets of teaching that are difficult to improve without others ' feedback . Especially when you are speaking , there are things you miss because you are focusing on choosing your words . Body language and conveyed impressions Mannerisms , e.g. ' like ... ' , ' um ' , ' ah ' Volume and pace of speaking Eye direction ( are you looking at the students , or do you look upwards when thinking ? ) Students ' facial expressions and body language ( what do they think of this specific class and why ? ) Conversely , there are some facets of your teaching you will notice by yourself in time , and are not particularly benefited by feedback : The clarity of your material ( diagrams , slideshows , images ) . It may be more worthwhile to review this in your own time . Which parts of your content are difficult for students Whether students feel confident to interact What lesson structures work better Students ' overall feelings about the course ( assuming you have course feedback forms ) I hope you make the most out of this opportunity !
The reason for no response may be anything from what Anthony Labarre mentions to what you list . I would wait at least a month before writing off an answer ; I have received answers even later than that . It is possible they are working on improvements themselves as well . In short , if you do not get a reply , you can only try again and perhaps express your request differently . You seem to have contacted all the authors . Sometimes the project leader may be too busy to pick up on questions and the younger team members may be more inclined to answer . They may , however , want to talk it over among themselves , and it is probably not a high priority . So try again in a couple of weeks . If you do not get any response , then there is probably not much you can do . You probably need to think about what can do to improve the chances for a reply . The word " collaboration " is sometimes a good way to " sweeten the deal " . Sometimes , just to give a perspective , I get requests for data that are of the sort , give me this or that , give me everything , and I often end up asking myself , why should I ? having laboured to generate the data . I am not saying you must follow such an approach to be successful but considering why the other researchers would want to help you may also help towards solving the communication problem .
end question
start question
Are the words " I , we , us , his , her , he , she " all prohibited in thesis writing ?
These words are not necessarily prohibited , but there is an old norm in academic writing to avoid personal pronouns ( the pronouns you listed ) . The reasoning behind the norm is that it makes for more objective writing , but it can also lead to the use of quite awkward passive voice phrasing . Because avoiding these pronouns does not necessarily make writing better , there is a counter-trend today which emphasizes writing clearly , even if that means you occasionally use " I " or " we " . Your supervisor will ultimately be one of the people evaluating your thesis , so it is important to take their preferences into account , but if you feel that writing without pronouns leads to too many awkward phrasings or otherwise makes your writing less clear , then I think it is worth pointing that out to your professor . Note that this also tends to vary by discipline . In some fields , for example , the use of " we " to refer to the author ( and collaborators or the readers ) is entirely normal . In other fields , though , I have heard that it sounds pretentious . Try asking your colleagues and other mentors what they think the norms are in your field as well .
I should not contact my network about potential jobs at any particular university because I would sound too " desperate " . Oh , please . Your chair probably remembers the Good Old Days when you could submit three applications with your one publication " in progress " and get two interviews and four offers . Yes , of course you should contact people in your professional network . The academic job search is no time for shyness or modesty . You need to sell yourself . You need other people to sell you . Ask them if their departments are planning to hire , and if so , what their hiring priorities are . ( And no , you can not get this information from the text of their ad . ) Ask some of them to write recommendation letters on your behalf . At least in computer science , you must have at least one reference letter , preferrably more , from someone who is not from your home institution and not a coauthor , but who can still write in detail about the quality , depth , originality , and impact of your work . Congratulations , you 've cultivated the perfect environment to find such people . Write them to let them know you 've applied , and ask them ( directly , shamelessly ) to put in a good word with their hiring committee . You will not get an offer from any department , and you may not even get an interview , without a local champion inside that department ; the champion does n't have to know you personally , but it certainly helps . ( Of course , a better way to cultivate a champion is to knock your interview out of the park . ) Always thank people for any information or help , even if they just say " Sorry , we 're not hiring in your field this year . " or " Good luck ! "
or should I go into more detail like e.g. the history of the company ? No , in general , there 's no need for that : your thesis is not a company 's brochure . Provide enough information to present the context of your thesis , but do n't add too much unnecessary details . Anyway , I suggest you to discuss this also with your university supervisor : they surely know what is the policy or the tradition about this in the university , and they can act as buffer between possible company 's requests and university requirements .
The authors would like to thank Jane Doe for her assistance in the preparation of this article . or some variation of the sentence above .
I have been part of several hiring committees in a New Zealand university and : We are instructed to never ask about a candidate 's family situation , religion , sexual orientation , etc. . Personally , I do not want to know about your family situation to avoid any perceived bias in the hiring process . Any mention of the situation on your part ( like ' we are a bundle ' ) could be perceived as making the hiring more complicated . Unless your application is miles ahead of the rest ( unlikely ) why would a committee want the extra complication ? The only situation where I could see an advantage is when you family situation would suggest higher chances of success . For example , you are applying to a job in the middle of nowhere ( and potentially candidates would feel isolated ) and your family happens to be from there . I would wait to say ' we are a bundle ' ( if that 's what you have in mind ) to when you are offered the position . Ideally , you would never have to disclose your family situation until the university is willing to pay for your moving costs .
I have made a request of this kind once , and it was granted by the editor . The referee in question was positive about the paper but had a significant misunderstanding of the subject area . The other referee had recommended acceptance of the paper in its current form . After a couple of rounds of refereeing , it seemed likely that resolving this misunderstanding might require many more iterations without any benefit to the paper . In this particular case , the associate editor handling the paper understood the subject area well enough to recognize this , and agreed to assign a new referee . Of course , starting from zero with a new referee after multiple rounds of revising is not ideal either , so consider carefully before you make such a request .
As a former academic editor , I agree . You are absolutely right ! Whether or not the act is legal , writing someone else 's thesis is helping them commit fraud . You would be helping him or her to obtain a degree that he or she has not earned . The question is , do you wish to participate in that kind of activity ? I think you have answered your own question . Yes , there are ( depressingly ) many , many , thesis " services " out there . There are many people doing dishonest things in the world . That does n't make them less dishonest . It sounds a bit as if someone is pressuring you to do this . If this is true , then for me , dealing with such a person involves finding the wording with which I am comfortable making my stand . Sometimes setting the individual decision in a larger context helps to de-personalize it - I might say that I had considered it , but have decided not to take on full thesis projects as a rule . Or , maybe , I would say that I am going to stick with editing projects for now . Both of these statements relate what my decision is . That is not arguable . I get to say what my decision is . If the person continued to try to argue , I simply repeat what I said , until s/he got it that I was serious . A friend of mine is great at saying , very politely , in many kinds of situations , " I 'm sorry , that is not going to work for me , " and then offering an alternative . She is voicing a personal preference , against which others can have no legitimate or polite argument . However , every situation is different - each person has to say what reflects his or her thoughts and boundaries . If this person is desperate because they " have to graduate in May " or whatever , being a former advisor , I would recommend they send see their advisor and confess the truth . Then , try to figure out some options . The world does n't usually end if students have to finish a course or two over the summer , perhaps you could offer your services for that time . Many students struggle with a large project without supervison . Having a writing coach to keep them on track ( you ) can help a lot . If you are an editor struggling for money , that is a familiar problem ! More marketing may be necessary , and/or check if your rates are what they should be . If no one ever hesitates when you quote , you may be undercharging . Also , making sure all of your friends know what you are doing , giving them business cards or a flyer , ( relatively inexpensive ) can help because if you have thirty friends/acquaintances , and they each have thirty , then someone in that 900 must need some editing . This is actually a useful way to search for " regular " jobs too . When I was editing I did find it did take time for marketing to pay off - it seemed like people would file my name away , and when the time came ( like six months later ) suddenly I would get a bunch of calls . Hope some of this is helpful ; please disregard the rest ! And please excuse any typos - I am edited out for today ! Good luck .
I do not believe it had anything to do with the act of being recorded by itself . Most universities are beginning a process of recording lectures for later consumption by the students anyway . Instead in this case it is likely because the professor was unaware they were being recorded . They may do or say something that they regret or which gets them into trouble . If however they knew beforehand that they were being recorded it would be unlikely that they would do that since they know the repercussions would be more severe . I think it was an instinctive reaction to protect themselves from others using the recording against them .
Abstract Firstly , the answer will tackle the question 's false assumption that the US is the most attractive destination for international students . Secondly , I will cite some of the factors making a country/region 's education system attractive to international students . Finally , to tackle some of the comments , I will present a chart showing number of international students per capita in selected countries . USA is not the most attractive destination for international students According to the <URL> , the number one destination of foreign students among OECD countries is Europe followed by Northern American region : European countries in the OECD were the destination for 38 % of foreign students in 2009 followed by North American countries ( 23 % ) . Despite the strong increase in absolute numbers , these proportions have remained stable during the last decade . To put the numbers above to global perspective , observe also that Foreign students enrolled in G20 countries account for 83 % of total foreign students , and students in the OECD area represent 77 % of the total foreign students enrolled worldwide . Factors driving attractiveness of higher education in OECD countries Again , according to <URL> ( emphasis added ) : Language as well as cultural considerations , quality of programmes , geographic proximity and similarity of education systems are determining factors driving student mobility . The destinations of international students highlight the attractiveness of specific education systems , whether because of their academic reputation or because of subsequent immigration opportunities . Commenters to the question cite the ratio of international students per capita as an indicator of attractiveness of education system for foreign students . While I do not see any direct correlation between attractiveness of an educational system and the ratio of foreign students per capita ( countries can be arbitrarily protective , or non-protective w.r.t. their own citizens ) , I prepared the following chart from the OECD data ( relevant to year 2009 ) : The chart was constructed by merging data from the <URL> with OECD countries population data from <URL> as published in the <URL> . The computation is done on non-citizen students column for the year 2009 , except for United States it is the number of non-resident students ( due to lack of a non-citizen students datapoint ) .
I always use Dr. ______ whenever I am e-mailing someone at a university and do not know if they have a doctorate . If they do have a doctorate , I have n't insulted them . If they do n't , they chuckle and are pleased .
A research statement is a mix of past and future . When you are talking about the past , you should be honest about the fact that you are not working in isolation -- in fact , that is a good thing . Use " we " or " my collaborators and I " or whatever most accurately describes what actually happened . The other key part of a research statement , however , is your views about the future : what you think is important , what your ambitions are for the future , etc. . Those are unambiguously your own opinions , and should be " I " statements .
One very important point has yet to be touched on . Indeed , subsubsection is not a dictionary word -- and even if it were , it 's awfully cumbersome . Saying " section 1.2.3 " is neater and more informative , as it tells the reader exactly where to go . The most important reason to use numbered references is if the order of your text changes . For example , if you move a particular subsection to another section or chapter , any references to it in the form of " the next subsection " will now be invalid . By using numbered references and attaching these to either the subsection header or a key sentence ( as appropriate ) , the numbers will automatically update and your referencing will remain correct . The above is applicable to references to anything . It is very dangerous to write such things as " in the following ... " , " in the previous section we introduced ... " , etc. . Such phrases do not refer to an exact place , and they can easily became invalid as you add , remove , or change parts of the text . Proof-reading will also be more difficult .
Graduate admissions offers in the U.S. can sometimes be rescinded , but I 've never heard of it happening except in extraordinary circumstances . I 've known of cases where it was because the applicant failed to graduate , was dishonest in their application , or committed some sort of academic misconduct , but I ca n't think of any other reason . However , as Johanna noted in the comments , the offer is not conditional on getting sufficiently good grades ( unless this is stated explicitly ) . I still feel like it is rather informal . This sounds like it 's about as formal as I 've seen . I do n't think you have anything to worry about . The only worrisome scenario would be if you received an oral offer and gave an oral acceptance , with no documentation , but that should n't happen if the department is handling things properly ( and indeed it does n't apply in your case ) . The department told me more information would arrive in April . It 's common to send a detailed information packet for incoming students in April , after all the offers have been accepted/rejected . That way the department can deal with it all at once , rather than handling each student individually . This packet typically includes things like registration forms , insurance information , housing forms , etc. . ( Anything they feel could be useful to students making a decision would be sent earlier . )
I 'm not entirely sure about what kind of publications you are talking about when you say ' published by vendors ' ( white papers , brochures , user manuals ? ) . But if you are referring to scientific literature , my answer is : by all means . I do n't se why you would refrain yourself from commenting the possible limitations or drawbacks of published methods . Just stay modest and consider the possibility that these publications came out a while ago and that the general knowledge in the field improved since then . Being critical , if done properly ( give objective reasons ) , is certainly something to be encouraged at the Master 's level , and yes the appropriate section for this is the " State of the art " section .
The goal of scientific writing is to transfer knowledge and information with high degree of clarity , precision , conciseness , and a reasonably natural tone . When editing written work , a quick litmus test is to slash away each phrase then evaluate if the sentence can do without it . " We can see that ... " is a very popular candidate to be slashed because in 99 % of the cases , the sentence 's meaning would n't change : " We can see in Table 1 that the average age is 56 years old with a standard deviation of 7 years . " " The average age is 56 years old with a standard deviation of 7 years ( Table 1 ) . " When describing graphs or illustration , we tend to see " We can see that ... " a lot more frequently than in other plain text ; most of these can also be deleted : " In Figure 1 , we can see that females are the majority ( 67 % ) . " " Females are the majority ( 67 % , Figure 1 ) . " ... or replaced by the graphical components on which that the viewers should focus . " In Figure 2 , we can see that the sales of graphic novel have been steadily increasing since 2011 . " " The sales of graphic novel have been steadily increasing since 2011 , as indicated by the dotted line in Figure 2 . " OR " The sales of graphic novel ( dotted line in Figure 2 ) have been steadily increasing since 2011 " And a few random thoughts from also an ESL : I tend to focus on how efficient the sentence is rather than how formal the sentence is . I will , on any day , take a PhD candidate who writes clearly than one who writes formally . " Formal " bad writing scratches the inside of my cranium . When it comes to writing , I tend to gear away from pragmatic advices that say " You always have to ... " or " You never should ... " Languages and usages change along time ; it 's more important to be able to tell my ideas to the current crowd , than to be able to write an ancient script . Beginning learners should feel free to stick to a handful of " rules of thumb , " but as the learning progresses they should develop their own judgment and some flexibility . A journal is only as formal as the editors of that journal go . Check the guideline to authors , read the specified style manual , and read a few current issues for an overall landscape , and then write . Leave all other " formal this " and " formal that " behind .
First , let me start off with a counter-question : Why would you expect them to be exactly the same ? Different regions have historically different educational systems on all levels , starting from Kindergarten . Why would you expect specifically the PhD degree to have a completely uniform definition everywhere in the world ? Of course there are nowadays activities to make degrees ( incl . PhDs ) more comparable worldwide , but these things take time . As politicians in Europe have learned as part of the so-called Bologna process , you ca n't just top-down decide that from now on , we are using the US system . Of course , there are sometimes reasonable arguments for differences in system . For instance , you concluded : it takes longer , on average , in the US than in Europe to finish a PhD since US PhD programs require less and have more coursework compared to Eur PhD programs . In the US , a bachelor 's degree is required for starting a PhD . In Europe , almost universally , you need a master or one of the older five-year diploma studies . So we in Europe expect students to hit the ground running basically from day 1 in their PhD . On the other hand , we do n't require them to do much , or any , course work because they did all of that as part of the previous studies . Of course , if you then look only at the pure time spend in what is called the PhD studies , you end up with a shorter time in Europe . Now you can of course go deeper down the rabbit hole and ask why European universities expect PhD students to have a master 's degree first . The reason for that is mostly historical - around here , we often did n't even have Bachelor 's degrees until the above-mentioned Bolognia process . What happened as part of this process was that decision makers ended up deciding that pretty much the first three years of the old diploma studies became " the bachelor " while the remaining two years became " the master " . Of course , this reasoning led to the public opinion of somebody with " only " a bachelor 's degree as a glorified college dropout . The universities implicitly also shared this notion , as there were never substantial motions to admit bachelor degree holders to PhD programmes in most universities . Slowly , the bachelor programmes are getting more profile as something better than just the first 3/5 of an actual degree programme , and consequently their public image also improves . Universities are nowadays also taking first tender steps towards making it easier for bachelor degree holders to start a PhD - however , so far , this is mostly targeted at making it easier for international students to enroll . Important concluding remark : I am aware that a lot of the above contained pretty sweeping generalizations , which do not hold true everywhere . Specifically , Great Britain and Ireland already historically used a different system . However , I wanted to answer with something a bit more substantial than " systems are different everywhere " .
I agree that it makes sense to set expectations as early as possible . I 'd just put Note that all XXX for this course are in English . in the syllabus . You should of course be specific as to what XXX is : Class slides Required reading Supplemental reading Lectures ( you could have slides in English but speak the local language during the actual lecture ) Quizzes Exams If quizzes/exams are in English , you should also note whether students would be expected to answer in English . Whether or not you also want to include the reasons for this is really up to how much space you have in the syllabus and whether there is n't anything more important to put there . I 'd say that a warning might be a better use for the space : If your English is not up to reading/understanding/writing technical documents , this course likely is not a good fit for you .
Take classes from professors you 'd like to do research with . Do really well . Ask good questions . Participate . Go by office hours and talk to the prof. Show interest . Try to read and understand their work . But do n't be so persistent that you become annoying . You 're looking for a personal fit as well as demonstrating your interest .
I would n't worry about it too much : given the bilingual nature of his work , your professor probably context-switches back and forth between languages frequently . If the professor is very comfortable in both languages , they might not have even realized the switch , e.g. , if responding to your email in the middle of a large block of work in English with their head in " English-mode " . If you want , however , next time you see the professor in person , you might ask if they have any preference for language in their communications with you : it could easily go either way ( e.g. , in English to make forwarding to non-German speakers easier , in German for personal comfort , or even no preference at all ) .
I am not a lawyer and this is not legal/tax advice . I believe you can deduct these as unreimbursed employee expenses . For 2013 , this was Line 21 of Form 1040 Schedule A. Details can be found in <URL> . It lists a number of examples of expenses that would be deductible on this line , including : Research expenses of a college professor Travel related to your work Tools and supplies used in your work Subscriptions to professional journals Dues to professional societies There are a couple of major caveats : Roughly , you can only deduct the amount that exceeds 2 % of your adjusted gross income ( AGI ) . More specifically , you take the amount of your unreimbursed employee expenses , add the rest of your miscellaneous itemized deductions if any ( see Pub . 529 for the list ) , and subtract 2 % of your AGI ; you can deduct the difference . So this may only apply if your research expenses are fairly substantial , or you have other significant miscellaneous itemized deductions . ( Note that miscellaneous itemized deductions do not include the big itemized deductions like charitable donations , state taxes , or mortgage interest . ) You have to itemize deductions to do this . If you do n't have many other itemized deductions , you may be better off just taking the standard deduction . Of course , you can not deduct expenses that were reimbursed . Note that you might also get good answers on <URL> .
end question
start question
How does an engineering undergraduate apply for master in humanities ?
While I think the other way around ( transitioning from the humanities to the sciences ) might be harder , if you can demonstrate that you are serious and prepared to undertake graduate training in the humanities , it is definitely doable . In my sociology department ( PhD track , we did n't have a separate MA program and most entered straight after undergraduate school ) , many of my colleagues did not have any sociology training . While most of them came from related fields of economics , political science , and psychology , there were people with math and physics backgrounds and these were sometimes the people who were doing the most innovative and interdisciplinary work . The selection committee was fine with accepting them as long as their proposed research area fit with the department faculty 's research and they showed promise as a sociologist . While a degree in the field is n't necessary , make sure you address how you have been working to fill the gap you have on your CV . A personal statement will be a good place to address this . In addition , you can take additional courses , read as many works in your proposed field , and try to have a well developed study plan to give confidence to the committee that you are as competitive as the other candidates . It might be a good idea to also build contacts with professors in schools that you are applying for and go talk to them to see if they will be interested in working with you . If you plan to specialise in a society other than where you are based in ( especially in case of anthropology ) , make sure you demonstrate regional expertise , language skills , knowledge of the society , or maybe work and/or living experience . Also , since those departments ( in case of a PhD program ) will likely ask for a writing sample , start working on one well in advance so the committee can see that you can indeed to the work in the proposed field .
I 've had a lot of undergrads in my lab ( physics ) . Unlike Corvus , I 'd say that certainly more than half have been net positives to the group 's research , and several have been very productive . The two most important things , I would say , are : A lot of direct contact and guidance -- not by email , but actual conversation -- either ( ideally ) from you ( the PI ) or from graduate students committed to the project and to mentoring someone . Simply being clear about tasks to be done , etc. , is insufficient ; every new researcher comes in without a good grasp of the motivations of the field , the challenges of exploring something new , etc. , and these are only surmounted by talking to people . Several times , I 've had great conversations with undergraduates in which I point out that I 'm thrilled that their experiment has failed , because now they can better understand what doing science is like , and they can pick themselves up , learn from what happened , and try again , and this is what makes them ' real ' researchers . I require a commitment of more than a few hours a week . If people are n't putting this in , we chat about the impossibility of having a meaningful project , and , again , learning how to be a ' real ' researcher . Sometimes people drop out ( or I ask them to leave ) if the motivation to do this is n't there . There 's no point in mentoring someone who ca n't commit real effort , and it does n't do them or you any favors . Your question is a great one . Best of luck , and please do n't think that mentoring undergrad research should just be a net-negative " service . " It does take a lot of work , but it can pay off !
Yes , in , say , Economics , its encouraged . Having a strong background ( i.e. a masters in math or statistics ) is a bonus . That being said , it is expected that you are n't blind about the subject you going into your PhD for ( but that should be obvious ) .
It does n't exactly " allow you to get a Ph.D quicker " . However , you would have more experience in academic writing than if you had n't contributed to the writing in the paper . Writing a paper is n't just " writing " a report - a lot of analysis , interpretation , and technical work goes into papers and these are skills you want to have as a Ph.D student . Being a co-author on a paper will make your application stand out . If you go into any job , you can list this as a project that you have worked on . If you are familiar with the contents of the paper , then you can talk about it as if it was another project that you 've worked on . Having your name on the paper is verifiable and can look pretty impressive especially if you are familiar with the details .
In most places I know ( Europe mostly , France and UK in particular ) , a Master 's degree is nothing more than a tiny blip on your CV by the time you have a successful PhD ( diploma , publication , good recommendations , involved in your community , ... ) . Your lack of a Master 's degree will not hurt one bit ( but it probably will come up in an interview , so you want to have something decent or funny to say about it ) . I suspect the same will be true in most places : by the time you are a post-doc , Master 's degree is not a good predictor of your future success . Regarding age , it 's a very good question , and should probably be separate . As a post-doc , it should n't hurt your chances ( I defended my PhD at the same age you are , so I have given it some thought ! ) . For a staff position , things are very different .
Should I give up the current opportunity , and try to apply other universities ? Why do you have to give up this opportunity to apply to other universities ? Find out when your advisor needs your decision by ; apply to other universities in the meantime ; and when the time comes to give your advisor your decision , evaluate that offer as well as any other offers you have in hand at the time . Is it ethical or appropriate to accept the current offer first , then keep on applying other universities ? Not unless you tell your advisor that 's what you 're doing . Another worry is that will he writes a good reference for me if he wants to keep me in his group ? If your advisor is a reasonably competent advisor , then he will want what 's best for you . If that means looking into other opportunities , then he should be supportive . If he is n't supportive , then either he will make a terrible advisor . Consider yourself lucky that you found out now , and get away fast . Or , he thinks you 'll do best staying where you are . If this is the case , ask him why he thinks so . Consider his answer carefully , then make your own decision . The selection results of other universities span across a large time range , if I wait until all selection results are available , it would be too late to accept my current offer . Is there any way I can balance the risk ? Obviously , you 'll have to commit to a choice at some point . But this is highly situation-dependent . The best person to advise you on this matter is your advisor . He can tell you when he needs your decision by , estimate your chances of getting into the programs you 're interested in , and weigh the risks of each approach with your specific goals in mind .
Corresponding authorship is often used to signal the person who is the primary contributor to the work . I 've seen this in fields like economics where there is a relatively strong norm of listing authors alphabetically . In these cases , the primary contributor is signaled with the corresponding author designation . I 've seen people go so far as to list corresponding authorship on their CVs when they list their papers although I think this is far from the norm . In fields where authorship is not simply alphabetic , I 've seen the corresponding author designation used to flag the second author as a major contributor because , even in cases of so called " dual-first authorship , " somebody 's name has to come first . In lots of other fields , it caries little signal value and really is just used to mark the person who is in the best position to answer questions about the work . Of course , the person marked as best able to answer question will , mostly likely , be someone who was involved in a wide variety of the research reported in the paper .
The situation may be challenging , but you do n't need to be uncomfortable with it . In academic research , it is not uncommon that the one doing the actual project is more familiar with the material than the one supervising it . While it 's probably rarely the case in an undergraduate - PhD student relation , it almost becomes the norm in the PhD student - professor relation , at least as the PhD student becomes more senior . Keep in mind that supervising is not only about teaching the material , but also about how to act and conduct research professionally . I hope you feel more confident about the latter aspect ! In your specific situation , there seem to be two possible steps if you feel you need to do something about it . Talk to the student you supervise , explain that your background is in a different field , and openly state that you may not be able to fully help on the content side of the project . If the student is sufficiently confident in working more independently , you should be able to be more relaxed as well . Otherwise , you may need to talk to your supervisor again and explain the problem . Maybe he can point out an additional member of the group who would be able to help with the aspects you ca n't cover .
A wide range of " Affiliate " and " Visiting " titles are often used to simplify bureaucracy in a long-duration academic interaction . For example , you may have a collaborator who frequently visits , and want to give them access to buildings , networks , and other resources so that their visits are less of a hassle for everybody . A " Research Affiliate " or " Affiliate Professor " or such status allows the institution to officially put the person into the system so that they can be issued keys , ID cards , access permissions , etc. . The mechanism for actually doing this is typically that a sponsoring professor just calls the appropriate department or fills out a form , and it just happens .
As noted <URL> , this is probably highly dependent on the university culture and field . My answer is based on my impressions from CS in Germany . In my subfield ( HCI-related ) , it was most usual for doctoral candidates to supervise between one and four Bachelor/Master theses a year , maybe a bit less for post-docs ( each of which took exactly 6 months ) . ( Depending on the topic , supervision occasionally took place in groups - i.e. two or three supervisors for one student , taking turns at supervision tasks or focusing different aspects of the work . ) As a rough guideline , the " amount " of supervision provided was usually a weekly meeting ( typically , between 10 and 60 minutes in length ) with the student to give them advice and answer questions . And , realistically , in some phases and for some students , to remind them that they should get some work done because they can not work on their Bachelor/Master thesis forever . As a secondary channel of supervision , students were free to ask urgent questions whenever they came up , via e-mail or by just dropping by in the supervisor 's office whenever it was convenient . The kind of supervision covered a wide spectrum - essentially , everything from high-level advice ( decisions about the content and how to proceed , developing some basic ideas for solutions together , scientific best practices , ... ) to low-level operational details ( technical issues in the code and in the LaTeX document , stylistic writing and layouting questions in the document , ... ) could come up .1 As for looking at drafts , I agree with <URL> in that it 's likely too late if the thesis is almost due . Personally , when I knew the student was in the phase in which they had already scheduled some writing , I would ask my students on almost every meeting whether there 's a new or revised section that I can read and comment on ( not necessarily because I was so keen on commenting , but first and foremost as another means of urging students to do the part of the task that most liked the least - writing the thesis document ) . Moreover , at least at my home department , we usually required students to use the department 's <URL> version control system , which was another way how supervisors could look at the students ' progress and the current state of their thesis when they had a feeling progress was n't as smooth as it should be . Lastly , concerning fairness , I must admit the thought that there could be anything unfair ( in a way that should be avoided ) in this never crossed my mind . Of course , supervisors in different institutes may hold very different opinions as to what amount and kind of effort is optimal and feasible in their supervision . But then , students are not assigned to supervisors in my place ; they usually pick a topic they like and they know beforehand who is going to be the supervisor for that topic . Anyway , as a result of the different opinions , supervision between institutes differed . Students could have bad luck with their supervisor , or with the typical style of supervision in the institute that focuses on the subfield they like . But the question is : Should you do anything about it ? I 'd say no . First , because I consider it part of a university graduate 's skills to also get along with supervision that does not ideally suit their personal preferences . And moreover , because I firmly believe that unfairness should not be countered by removing any advantages until every option is as bad as the original quality minimum . 1 : This does not mean that students would have supervisors do all their work . The goal was rather guiding the students towards a balance between working out problems autonomously and not being shy to actively contact the supervisor about any current roadblocks .
As an international student who is ( was ? ) looking for potential advisors , I 'd say yes ( As far as I know ) ! The algorithm for me worked as follows : Contact the obvious ones . These were authors of papers I read recently ( &amp; liked ) , editors of journals etc. . Basically , the ones with good " academic presence " . Look at professors who have written textbooks or survey papers . Look at strong departments for professors . ( By strong I mean : Reputation , Rankings and Star Power/Infrastructure ) If a professor has a good webpage ( Updated recently with list of current/past projects , list of graduate students and alumni ) , Shoof ! Time saved ! If a professor has a bad webpage ( Last updated in 2001 or with minimal content or whatever ) , then run him on google scholar . Read his papers and try to find out what his students are upto . Once a professor has been selected , run youtube and ratemyprofessor on him . This is usually worthless but it did yield some awesome results once in a while . It did help get a virtual lab tour at times . In conclusion : Maintaining a good website does help students ( especially international ) get to know the professor better . It does save us a lot of time by having access to all relevant information at one place What is most irritating is webpages with very old content . I would prefer limited recent content to old obsolete content .
Many universities in the US have policies that prevent students with a 3 year bachelor 's degree from applying for graduate admission . To get into one of those programs you would have to complete at least one more year of study before being admitted to the graduate program .
( Assuming USA ) Yes , you can apply if you are graduating in the summer . No , I do not see any reason why you should not do this . You should probably explain your plan and the reasons for it in your application .
This is a good question and I 'm sure you 're going to get a lot of " try doing X " style answers - however , I think it 's important to zoom out for a second and remember that there are two forces which decide what topics researchers investigate . The first comes from within - what you are most motivated and passionate to research , giving you a strong pull factor in that direction . Alternatively , some topics you will find totally and utterly boring , and there is a strong push factor there . When you are young , it can feel like this force is the only force guiding your learning , since you pick your elective modules , you choose which Wikipedia articles to read , etc. . This is probably why you feel that choosing a good topic is going to be really important going forwards . The second force comes from academia itself . Some topics are " sexy " and funding opens up for those topics , pulling researchers in . Other topics go out of fashion , pushing researchers away . This force is created by the hundreds of thousands of people working and funding academic research right now , and is totally out of your control . The significance of this force grows as you mature through your academic career , so while right now you probably barely feel it ( beyond the fact that the electives you can choose from are decided by academics ) , in the future you will be acutely aware of it and how much of an influence it has on your research area . If you ever listen to someone accomplished explain their academic career path , they 'll always tell you it was " unusual " because they started in X and ended up doing Y. " Unusual " career paths are so common place that these days i 'd only be surprised if someone said they started working on X when they were 25 and now at 60 their still working on X . That would be unusual . Of the hundreds of researchers I have ever met , I can only think of 2 or 3 people like that . So long story short , I would n't bother researching around to find other topics you may or may not be interested in , because it simply does n't work like that - particularly in practical/applied Physics or life sciences . You will get funding and find mentors only in the topics society/academia finds most important . To go against the flow in this regard early on is to commit career suicide , since everything you do will be that much harder . No mentors , no funding , no one wants to accept your poster presentation , no one wants to publish your paper , no one asks you to review anything , etc. . So from that point of view , if you want to make smart early-career decisions , look at new/expanding areas of research and find a way to make it your own . Learn to enjoy it because you are the best at it and you are energized by the progress you make , not necessarily the subject matter itself . Keep the things you love as hobbies , or save them until tenure :)
It depends on his goals . Since he wants to do research , it does n't matter that much whether he has a BSc or a master 's as long as he can convince the department he applies to for his PhD that he has the necessary knowledge . A master 's might be slightly better since he will naturally get more research experience , but it is possible to get research experience as an undergrad by volunteering in your professors ' labs . The disadvantage of going straight to a master 's is that he wo n't have the same background as the other students . This means that either ( a ) the department will ask him to take prerequisite courses , at which point the master 's program will take almost as long to finish as the BSc , or ( b ) he will be expected to catch up with the other students on his own time , which will be a lot of work . If he thinks he might want to work in industry at some point , I would recommend doing the BSc . Engineering is a <URL> in the US , so without the BSc , he ca n't call himself an engineer . This does n't mean he ca n't get hired , but it means he will get hired under some other job title ( " technician " , say ) and may get paid less than he would if he were hired as an engineer . Considering that this would affect his whole career , I would recommend investing the extra time up front , especially if he can shorten the BSc by reusing some credits from the physics degree .
Try out several projects in different areas does not necessarily say that you do not know what interests you . You have to show them that you are interested several areas and you wanted to get an insight in order to obtain a wider range of possibilities . I think that there are few people who immediately find the right area that interests them 100 % . It is important that you present it that way . Working on different projects brings more extensive experience in any case . If you have then found the right area for you , you can deal with it more intense .
Sounds like a <URL> ! Here 's my estimate . How many new math PHDs are granted in the US per year ? Number of major US institutions ( ~ 1000 ) Fraction of major US institutions offering a PHD math program ( 1 in 4 , or 0.25 ) Average number of doctorates conferred by each PHD math program per year ( 6 ) This gives roughly ( 1000 x 0.25 x 6 ) = 1500 new math PHDs per year . How many postdoc positions are in the US ? Number of US institutions offering postdoc positions ( 300 ? ) Number of postdoc positions per offering institution ( 3 ? ) Fraction of postdoc positions opening per year ( 1 in 2 , or 0.5 ) ( assuming two-year positions ) That gives ( 300 x 3 x 0.5 ) ~ 450 postdoc positions opening per year How many people apply to a given position ? Number of new math PHDs per year ( 1500 , see above ) Fraction of new PHDs applying for postdoc positions ( 1 in 2 , or 0.5 ) Average number of postdoc applications each new PHD fills out ( 30 ? ) Number of open postdoc positions per year ( 450 , or almost 500 , see above ) This gives ( 1500 x 0.5 x 30 / 500 ) ~ 60 applications per postdoc position . This approach misses something , however . Not everyone applying for these positions has just received their PHD : competition is increasing . There are fewer tenure-track positions open , causing postdocs to apply to a second ( or even third ! ) postdoc position . Furthermore , not all applicants earned their PHD in the US . To account for all the other applicants ( current postdocs , PHDs from other disciplines , etc. ) , let 's multiply that figure by a factor of 1.5 , so there 's ( 60 x 1.5 ) = 90 applicants per postdoc position . Thus my final estimate : I estimate that each postdoc position receives an average of 90 applicants per postdoc position . Accuracy <URL> has some great figures ( 2013-2014 ) for comparison , though I checked this after my estimate : 1926 math PHDs conferred . 38 % ( 626 ) are reported to be in postdoc positions in the US ( another 200 or so are abroad ) Lastly , the " 800 applicants for 2 positions " figure ( comment from @Sana ) is for an R1 institution , and is therefore likely to be much higher than it would be for an average institution .
Under most circumstances ( not an exceptionally brilliant candidate or a field that is very difficult to recruit in ) , if a postdoc applies to what is advertised as a tenured associate professor position , then I would interpret the application as asking whether the university might consider hiring at the assistant professor level instead . That 's not unreasonable , since job openings do not always get filled the way the department had in mind . The chances are lower if the department is hoping for something else , but it 's not impossible . I 'd recommend being explicit about this . If you are actually trying for tenure straight out of a postdoc , you should say so , but it will be a waste of time unless there are unusual circumstances ( and it may make you look arrogant or out of touch ) . If you would like to be considered for a tenure-track position should the department decide to hire at that level instead , then you should make that clear .
There is no definite answer . It really depends on how much previous literature exists , how much of it you have reviewed and cited appropriately , and ( loosely ) what the word count of the document is . Page count can misleading , as some theses have many more figures and tables than others . No one is going to skip to the bibliography , think negative thoughts , and say " you have too many references ! " without reading the document . If no individual part of the thesis could be considered as having too many citations , then the thesis as a whole has an appropriate number of citations . These related questions have answers as to how you can decide if a particular part of the thesis has too many citations . <URL> <URL>
Journal review times in the humanities tend to be longish and I doubt that you 'd have a paper accepted in a journal of sufficient quality to impress anybody . ( I just got back yesterday a round of comments from a paper I submitted in September . ) If I were you , I 'd maybe try to submit a paper to a graduate conference instead . Look around for Ph.D. granting programs in your field in the area and send them a paper/abstract . It 's much less work for you to write up an abstract , and a much higher likelihood of actually getting something accepted in a reasonable timeframe . An undergrad getting something into a grad conference is probably sufficient to make the committees think you 've got potential as a researcher . Maybe it is n't quite as impressive to have a presentation as a publication , but I doubt that 'd be a big factor here . To get accepted to a grad program , you just have to get past a threshold of potential , and doing something that puts you way , way above that threshold ( publication in a reputable professional journal ) just is n't really any more helpful to getting accepted than doing something that just barely puts you above that threshold ( a grad conference presentation ) . One exception here : if you have a paper or something that one of your profs was just raving about and told you that you just have to publish it in Such And Such Journal , then yeah , maybe shoot it off , but do n't expect it to get picked up in time to make a difference in your apps .
end question
start question
How can I express " I ca n't find any papers written about this " ?
( disclaimer - I come from computer science , and the little I know about conventions in philosophy is from hearsay ) I 'd like to be able to say " I looked around on Google scholar , etc , and I could n't find anything about this topic " The usual expression for this kind of thing in my field is " to the best of our knowledge , this topic/idea has so far not been considered in literature " . It tells the reader that you think that nobody has published this idea yet , but clearly the absence of existing literature is something very difficult to be sure about . Hence the rather defensive formulation . In general , is there a technique to demonstrate the absence of literature about a certain topic ? Nope . How would you do that ? It 's a bit like proving a hypothesis - you can only find counterexamples ( papers that do cover the topic ) , but you can not prove that in some weird journal nobody reads somebody has expressed your thoughts already . What kind of evidence is appropriate in this situation ? Would providing something like the number of results of a search on Google scholar be worthwhile ? The accepted convention in my field is to explain the methodology of how you searched for literature ( you had a defined methodology , right ? ) , and then explain / list / discuss what you found . Be specific - which keywords did you use and why ? Why Google Scholar and not something else ? Can you be sure that all papers that you would expect to be relevant are indexed by Scholar ( some of those should be pretty old , long before the Internet was a thing ) ? Did you also check your library for dead-tree literature ? Number of results and or similar metrics seem pretty much useless to me and would likely not improve your paper in any way .
This really depends on your audience . At a department colloquium , I assume very little background , probably an undergrad degree in math , but not even an undergrad class in my research area . Here the audience will often be smart , but ignorant of the relevant background . At a research seminar with lots of undergrad and/or masters students , I still do n't assume much background , maybe an undergrad class in the area , but even then I " remind " the audience of important information they " should " know . At a research seminar with mainly PhD students and active researchers I assume more , but even here I usually do n't assume that they 're familiar with the problem or the relevant literature or techniques . A conference special session ( or minisymposium ) is similar to a research seminar with mainly PhD students and active researchers . Here I often expect that much of the audience is familiar with the background and the techniques , but I still usually review them at least briefly . I 've never gotten complaints about giving too much background and context . I never assume the audience has read any of my papers . I typically view my talks ( at least in part ) as advertisements for my papers . The audience will never want to read my paper if they do n't see why it 's important ( so that 's my job during the talk ) . For those few that already want to read the paper , I hope they leave my talk with an outline of the paper , which will make it easier to read . Any time you 're talking to an audience with varied background , it 's good to briefly describe the key definitions . If you can do this quickly , perhaps only verbally , you do n't bore those who already know , and you give the rest a fighting chance to keep up .
" Tours " are different from " open houses " . On " tours " there is zero chance you 'll meet or hear from any faculty . At an " open house " , there is 50 % chance you 'll hear from one or more faculty , and 25 % you can actually talk to faculty during the reception . It would be very rare ( and delightful ) that a graduate applicant " open house " would have most or all of the faculty . Regarding " open houses " , there are three possible methods to find out about them . First is to look at the Department 's web site , and check under " Events " and/or " News " . ( Sadly ) They might only give 2 weeks notice for " open houses " . Second , the department might have a mailing list where you can add your email address to receive regular ( daily or weekly ) emails on upcoming events . Third , the open house may be not associated with the department but instead it might be hosted by the School , College , or equivalent . You may need to add your name/email to a mailing list for these events . Remember : Departments are notoriously irregular in their " customer service " in this regard . Almost no academic departments have incentives to perform their operational processes effectively .
With the hopefully obvious caveat that I 'm not a lawyer and this is not legal advice : at least in the US , this is probably fine . Copyright law ( <URL> ) applies to " original works of authorship , " not to ideas , and I think everyone would agree the metadata of an article 's publication ( including journal name , author , and date ) fall in the latter category , not the former . Otherwise the whole system of academic citation would be untenable ! The title and abstract , on the other hand , are content created by the articles ' authors and are protected by copyright law , but I think it 's quite likely that fair use ( <URL> ) protects you from being held liable for using them in the manner you describe . With reference to the four conditions to be considered when determining fair use : ( 1 ) the purpose and character of the use , including whether such use is of a commercial nature or is for nonprofit educational purposes ; You say it 's a free , noncommercial endeavor , so that works in your favor ( 2 ) the nature of the copyrighted work ; It 's an academic article ; the whole purpose of its existence is to be widely disseminated ( 3 ) the amount and substantiality of the portion used in relation to the copyrighted work as a whole The title and abstract are a small part of the work ( 4 ) the effect of the use upon the potential market for or value of the copyrighted work Using the title and abstract in a database like this will more likely increase the market for the original paper than decrease it ( which is in fact the entire point of having an abstract ) In fact , you would hardly be the first person to do something like this . In high energy physics , <URL> already aggregates abstracts and metadata from nearly all published papers .
Yes , I would certainly mention it , especially when applying to schools where undergraduate research is a focus , or those that have a thesis-based masters program . The " teaching statement " does n't have to be limited to classroom teaching ; it is reasonable to mention any activities related to educating students .
The best option is to e-mail the school you are going , and ask for a copy of degree audit checklist or degree requirement checklist , which usually list the required and elective courses you 'll need to complete for a certain degree . You may also ask for a course schedule and an academic calendar of the recent academic year and get an idea on which semester/trimester and time slots were those courses made available . And in the calendar you can get a gist of when is the start and end of the semesters/trimesters , last date for adding/dropping courses , etc. . Lastly , some schools may include the degree requirement information in their student handbook . It would n't hurt to ask or search for a PDF copy of the handbook as well . You should also find details on cross registration to other institutes . Also be careful that universities tend to have a handbook for the whole study body , and then the smaller departments within them may also have their own smaller handbooks . Make sure to get all the copies that are related to your degree . These terms should give you a good start . But do bear in mind that by the time you start to study , some of the information may be updated in the new academic year . So , you may plan , but be ready to be flexible . As for if you can work with one or more professor on research . The answer would depend on many things : some students got assistantship to help the professors , some work as if the professors hire them , some work for academic credit ( as a directed study . ) There are too many variations that I doubt you will find a single document telling you everything . This question is probably best asked on the orientation day once you arrived there . As for digging into their site , try to use some suffix in Google to enhance your results . For instance , try to search for to confine the results from the domain of . You can also modify it into to search for only PDF documents . Good luck with the planning .
You can definitely contact a paper author . They might be of the ' it obviously follows ' == after 5 pages of calculations kind , or the empiricist who published the 20 successful regressions or simulations out of 200 , with 180 contradicting their result or being inconclusive ; and in either case ignore your question . From personal experience though , it can even lead to breakthroughs : in my case , someone sent me his lecture notes which clarified something I was stuck with , and related to the submitted question . However , if your advisor knows the author , or simply is well-known in their field , do mention that you are their student , as it should increase good will on the author 's part - after confirming with your advisor that they are cool with it . Showing that you are active , interested , and independent should also go down well with the advisor .
Are there any techniques I could use to determine whether an essay that I suspect was written by someone else , but not published elsewhere , is a student 's own work ? Ask the student to come to your office hours or a private meeting . Then , say : " I was really impressed by your recent paper , it was an excellent piece of work ! Let 's discuss it some more . " Student who did the work will be able to discuss said work intelligently . Student who did n't do the work is unlikely to be able to carry on an intelligent conversation about said work . ( This still is n't proof of any kind , and you ca n't accuse student of cheating without some evidence - but if you 're lucky , student will at least be spooked enough to never do it again . ) Are there any steps I can take to ensure I do n't receive questionable essays in the first place ? Assign essays that are a few steps beyond , but still closely tied to , what 's been discussed in class , such that somebody who was n't in the class will not be able to produce the kind of essay you 're expecting ( the effectiveness of this depends very much on the subject matter ) .
In the US , various funding agencies ( NSF , NIH , DOE , ... ) have fellowships you can apply to for predoctoral students . They tend to be very competitive compared to internal sources ( Teaching Assistantships , Research Assistantships , Graduate Assistantships ) , but they may offer a higher stipend . Depending on your field , professional societies also offer fellowships : American heart association , Whitaker foundation , Gates foundation . Industry also offers some in association with various schools : Siemens , Raytheon , Johnson &amp; Johnson .
It is clear from your recent questions that you feel exploited in your lab , and it is good that you want to do something about it . However , first things first . What is your agreement with your current mentor / lab head / whoever ? Essentially , what is your " job " ? If you have been specifically hired to " help out with the programming " , or something like that , it will be difficult to convince whoever is paying your salary that you now actually would like to do something different . Not impossible , but maybe also not easy . On the other hand , if you have actually been hired to do research , but now end up being more of a scientific programmer because that 's what the lab currently needs , it is time for a good one-on-one meeting with your lab head . You wrote in a comment that you do not foresee this going well , but I really see no way how you can change your situation without talking about it very explicitly to your lab head . It should be easy to see for most sane persons that not only your lab has needs , but you and your career have needs as well ( and working as a scientific programmer can easily be a dead end for an academic career - no first-authored publications , no faculty job ) . Try to make a plan for a suitable compromise between you helping out the lab with your programming skills , will still being able to progress your own career . Should your lab head really not be willing to compromise at all , it may be time to move on . Possible compromises could include : Hiring an actual scientific programmer , perhaps with funding that you help acquiring You training some of the junior staff to do their own programming You helping others in their programming problems , but ultimately let them do the majority of it themselves You supervising some undergrad or master students that can help out with programming tasks etc. . that they appreciate more ( because they are their own PhD students and now postdocs , it 's emotionally logical , I 'd say ) That 's not logical , that 's BS . A lab where people " coming from the outside " are valued less than those that " have always been there " is a terrible , toxic environment .
Yes , this is a problem . You should not submit the same work to more than one journal at a time . This applies regardless of language - merely being in a different language does not make the actual work unique . Further , consider some practical considerations - a simultaneous submission means that you 'll have to go through peer-review for both papers and ( assuming you do n't get caught and summarily rejected ) presumably have to make some changes . What if the changes do n't align ? Now you do n't have two translations of the same paper , but two subtly different papers in two languages . If you 're genuinely interested in making your paper more accessible , either post a translation online , or wait until one paper is accepted and then approach a journal in the other language about posting a translation .
From experience , both as a member of ResearchGate and as a postgraduate , I would say the main question is more about worth than about acceptability . Sounds like you did the right thing when you posted these papers the first time , with characterizing them as undergraduate works , therefore managing expectations . You feel these papers may be of interest to others ; fair enough . Statistics of opens and reads , and any message you get about them could be a good indication of how worthy they are to peers . If nobody gets to see them , you might as well keep them to yourself . Over 100 reads for an undergraduate paper sounds rather cool , and might give you an interesting clue about the popularity of your paper topic , and might encourage you to work further around the same topic for further research and papers .
MIT 's Open Courseware project has a lot of material of this sort . Here is a link to the <URL> , with courses organized by topic . The depth of the offering will vary from course to course . Some have only syllabi , others have complete video lectures , homework assignments , exams , solutions , etc. . The coverage is quite broad and includes courses in all of the specific classes you have listed .
The IEEE makes their ' Taxonomy ' available <URL> ( linked to in their Author FAQ under the Publications page ) , but this is only a hierarchical list without the designations you have given to identify something as the C.2.1.h topic . Surprisingly ( to me ) , neither the author kit nor the editorial manual discuss this hierarchy . In contrast , for the American Institute of Physics , the PACS codes are available on-line at <URL> .
If your institution has a subscription to Journal Citation Reports ( JCR ) , you can check it there . Try this URL : <URL>
You could take the book to a copy shop , and have it binded properly ( e.g. , hot glue , hardback , etc. ) . Here in the Netherlands , that costs about 3 euros for a simple but effective glued back .
The best place to begin to look for collaborators are researchers who are currently publishing in your topic/field of interest . I would recommend contacting the authors of journal articles you read and can contribute to the topic in a significant manner ( enough to be published ) . Contact the researcher and suggest a collaboration , with what skills and expertise you bring to the table and your intended result of collaboration .
If you recall a definition which may be unknown to your users , it is always a good idea to refer to a book/article from which the notion originates . Do this even ( actually , especially ) if you choose to rephrase the definition in your own words . Remember , references are important to navigate your readers and put your work in a context . Definitions are no exception .
In general , no , journals can not arbitrarily share your submission with others -- at least not before it 's been accepted . However , they can share your submission with : Reviewers , so that the peer-review process can be completed Other staff members within the publisher , which can be useful when a paper is submitted to the " wrong " section of a journal , or to the wrong journal , but is otherwise acceptable for publication . Once the paper has been accepted and appropriate copyrights assigned , though , they can do more or less whatever they normally do in their publication and advertising process .
Yes , you can , and you should . It is not impolite ( unless you actually have access ) , and it is not unethical . I do n't think it is illegal , if you do not distribute it further , and it is certainly not uncommon . First , make sure you really do n't have access ( otherwise , you risk looking a bit like a fool ) , then ask him . Do n't make a big deal of it , just explain that you lack access and you believe he may have them , if so could he please send them .
end question
start question
Is it fine to make a poster on a topic in which I have an article under review ?
Typically this would be okay , because the poster is not published . If in doubt , contact the PC chair of the conference to make sure .
It depends on what you want to do . If you feel like at this point in your research it would be more beneficial to converse than to present , then I 'd say that a poster session is the right venue for you . It 's true that talks are considered a bit more presitgious than poster sessions , but you really should go with what you think will be more valuable for you , and for the conference attendees . It 's worth noting that you could always do a poster presentation this year , get the feedback that you covet , and then return next year to do a talk , and let everyone know how your research went over the subsequent year . That kind of progression is not a bad thing . Also , if you are in the early stages of your research , it might not be ready for a talk . When I attend a conference talk , I 'm expecting there to be some significant findings . Sure , talks might be more " prestigious , " but , if there are some holes in your research , you could end up discrediting yourself . People are n't expecting the same level of maturity in the research during a poster session . So , as I said before , forget the prestige aspect , and choose based on what is more fitting based on your goals , and on what you have to share at this point in your research .
You can be interested in Japanese even if you do n't know more than 3 words in Japanese . You can say it is your interest . If they ask about your research experience - then usually a publication is a good indicator that you have some knowledge of the topic .
If the result reads like a newspaper , I would say , no , it 's not alright . If it reads like <URL> , then you are probably doing something right . Unless you are an exceptional writer , my advice is to follow the accepted conventions of your field , which probably includes block paragraphs . A longer paragraph allows one to build up an idea and explore it more thoroughly . The first sentence introduces the idea . Subsequent sentences explore it in more detail . There should be a logical connection between sentences , and sentences should ideally vary in length . Developing good style is matter of practice and reflection . And there is more to good style than the length of a paragraph .
This is called an administrative encumbrance , it is indeed very standard . The general notion is that if you owe the university money , then the administration will deny you things . These things may include : unit results , the ability to graduate , exam timetables , or the ability to enroll in new units . In what was certainly a bug , students at my wife 's university were even denied access to the payment webpage while under-encumbrance -- which did not help them get paid . There are often many ways to get encumbered , depending on the university and country . As well as library fines , there are often things like amenities fees , student union fees , parking fines , tuition costs . Is it legal ? Probably . You almost certainly agree to something along the lines of " I will suffer the effects of being encumbered if I fail to pay any fees or fines , and may not be allowed to graduate " , as part of your enrollment or financing paperwork/online form tickbox . Is it a legally binding contract , though ? Who knows , we will probably never find out as the cost of a lawyer to take it to court and actually prove it through context is far more than the cost of just paying it . I would bet it is legal , as universities tend to have teams of laywers on retainer . Now the real question is will a < # 10 fine actually make you encumbered ? That is a question to look to your university rules for . I suggest that it probably wo n't . That there is a clause saying that encumbered will only be enforced in cases where the debt is > # X. My own experience with this was that in my last semester of undergrad , I accidentally had a 3 hour loan book out for several extra hours . I got a $ 9 fine . So I went to the administration to pay it off . And I found out that I could n't . They only do EFPOS/Credit card transactions of at least $ 15 , and they do not accept payment via cash . ( These two rules came in separately several years apart and I 'm not sure anyone noticed that they clash ) . But I also found out that encumbrance at my university does n't occur until you have $ 24 or more owed .
Given that you are a PhD student ( in math ; I am also in math ) , I think you probably should put this on your CV . Going to conferences shows some professionalism and interest , and giving poster presentations does too . I do n't want to suggest that this will be a key piece of information for your job search and/or early career , but ... it certainly ca n't hurt . You may want to take them out later when your CV has filled out in other ways . The fact that they are not peer reviewed does not seem directly relevant to me , as long as you do n't lump them together with publications ( why would you ? ) or suggest in some way that they are something they were not .
In general , I would recommend against asking who the search committee is . It might give the impression that you are trying to " game the system " rather than simply put your best foot forward for everyone . That said , I do n't think this is a serious faux pas . Some departments , including my own , post a list of committee assignments on their department homepages -- mostly out of convenience for their own faculty . So you might be able to answer your question without asking .
Just contact the editor in charge of your submission . It may not be the main editor but an associate editor . Usually , when you login in the website for managing submissions , there is often a link to contact the editor . If not , you may also know who is the editor in charge of your submission by reading the e-mail that was sent to you as confirmation when you submitted the paper . Otherwise , you may look for an e-mail on the website to contact the editor . Those are general guidelines . It may vary depending on the journal . But do n't worry . It is not a problem to remove a journal paper . This happen quite often .
I do n't want to turn this into an answer about how universities or society in general should deal with disabilities . I will offer what I have witnessed first hand through a good friend . Can you work in Academia ? Yes . Will people make fun of you ? Probably but who cares . People make fun of others for everything . But ... do n't try to hide your problem embrace the stuttering . Nobody cares that much unless you do . spit out what you are trying to say . The content and meaning are key . Do n't let the stuttering stop your speech . do n't try to dumb down your words to help the stuttering ( to a point ) . You will be judged by most on what you say , do n't let stuttering get in the way of that . So my friend - let 's call him Paul ( sorry Paul for using your real name ) had a big banquet speech he was asked to do after much of his research was published . Four of the faculty members/advisors Paul was thanking were named John ... So he says , " I would like to thank Joh-Joh-Joh-Joh-Joh-Joh-John . ( He catches his breathe and smiles at the crowd ) . Well I had fou-fou-four Johns and I think I thanked too many . " It could have been two hours of drinking but people were honestly laughing for two minutes straight . In reality it probably would effect you more if you were in a field were public speaking were part of the field . Paul was a scientist . I hate to say this but I think the stuttering became his calling card and made him even more likable , and even better presenter . Add : After seeing this question get a ton of hits I want to be clarify my answer . Stuttering and other issues , whether it is a disability or just something that someone is n't good at - be honest with yourself about any " shortcomings " and do n't make others feel awkward ( I know this is hard ) . Whether it is a strong accent , stuttering , talking low , saying " ummmm " , whatever - if you know you have an issue own it and put your audience at ease . A perfect example of this is Jeff Foxworthy . He readily admits that he talks like a redneck . That is his shtick . People like him and think he 's hilarious because he openly talks about his accent and redneckedness . If he came out to an audience , unknown to them , and tried to ( poorly ) hide his accent and redneck background , people would feel uncomfortable . Everyone has issues , some worse than others . Acknowledging your issues makes your more personable and relateable to your audience as they know that they too might have trouble talking in front of a large group .
Sentence casing would be my personal choice , but actually it is just a matter of preference . Academic CVs exist in either title casing or sentence casing in publications . Both are prevalent in practice . Whatever be your choice , make sure it is consistent throughout the CV .
Changing the spelling of a single word , in multiple places , from British to American English seems odd . Enforcing a particular writing style ( e.g. , American English ) on all authors is fairly common . Ideally , you will have a professional copy editor edit the book . The copy editor will need to be given stylistic guidelines including spelling , word usage , abbreviation , citing , referencing , numbering and many other aspects . Once the chapter has been copy edited , it should be returned to the author for her final approval .
If we momentarily disregard from discussions regarding the cons of ISI and Thomson-Reuters who run the service etc. and focus on the usefulness of ISI indexed journals for ones career , the answer is yes , at least to some extent . The importance is in part depending on your discipline since ISI indexing is not evenly distributed over disciplines . But generally speaking the ISI listing means the journal publishes papers that are referenced , which is an indication that it is research of some quality and importance . This does not mean non-ISI-listed journals are not " honourable " . But , when choosing a journal in which to publish , you need to make sure it is read by other in your field so that your research is seen and your ideas known by others . You should make a survey of journals that are of reference and if you find ISI-listed journals there is a reason to consier them if your papers fulfl their quality criteria because they will be seen as presigeous references when you are evaluated for a position etc. .
You 've chosen a journal that looks like it is well suited to your background and topics . By itself , the length of your paper is not related to whether it is important or publishable . There are three things you can do to test whether your potential topics/papers are worth writing and submitting . First , read many articles in this journal , similar journals , and also conferences . You are n't just looking for articles on the same topic or technique as yours . Instead , you are learning about what constitutes a good research paper in your field . Based on your reading , write a detailed outline of your proposed paper ( s ) , and also an abstract . The second thing you can do is to write a version of your paper ( s ) as a " Working Paper " and then circulate them to peers or colleagues for feedback . You can post this to <URL> and post links on social media or mailing lists to get broader feedback . This approach has two advantages . You sometimes only know the value of a research paper after you finish writing it . And you 'll get the most useful feedback from people when they have a finished paper in their hands , as opposed to reacting to a concept . The third thing you can do , building on the previous , is to submit a paper or two ( each revised based on earlier feedback ) to a journal or conference , and then learn from reviewer comments if they reject you .
No , you should not , but there is of course no law that prevents it . Peer review is a process where the editor appoints reviewers because of their expertise to provide independent and knowledgeable views on the submitted manuscript . As such the reviews should pass through the editor since they are not only made to improve the manuscript from the point of the author but also prepare it to be worthy of publication in the journal to which it is submitted . Making such contact is thus breaking an understanding with the editor/journal and integrity of the journal review system and quality assurance . The correspondence needs to go through the editor .
Counterexamples notwithstanding , the practice certainly raises all sorts of questions about conflicts of interest : is the adviser providing unbiased advice , is the adviser unbiased in their assessment of the academic proficiency of the candidate , is the advisee independent to choose their research direction , etc. . In cases like this , nobody looks good -- people wonder about the judgment of the adviser , they wonder about the actual quality of the candidate if papers are jointly written , and they wonder about what 's going on in the department to let such things happen . As a consequence , people and departments are generally well advised not to let this happen , simply because the perception of a conflict of interest is oftentimes just as bad as the actuality of something improper happening .
The answer depends critically on your field : you need to talk to your advisor and find out what the general policy is . Three examples along the spectrum of radically different possibilities : In mathematics , theoretical physics and theoretical computer science , papers under review are circulated publicly long before being published . This practice is a key motivator behind <URL> . On the more empirical/applied side of computer science , making a paper under review publicly available would n't be a problem except in case of double-blind review , but would generally be considered rather gauche . Circulating privately in advance , on the other hand , is quite accepted . Many biology journals aim to <URL> . In many cases , posting a paper under review could actually be considered prior publication , and result in the paper being disqualified as a submission and automatically rejected . Find out which are the practices of your field and follow them .
If a graphic clearly gets across the message then why not use it ? Just check what the regulations specify though , To elaborate a bit more you need to think about what the introduction is for . If it is intended as an executive summary then a diagram that summarises the work could be very effective . If however it is setting the context of the work then I find it difficult to see how a diagram would help .
In moderation , I do n't see anything wrong with including content on your website that you would not include on a CV . In principle it could hurt your career if you post something ridiculous or objectionable , but information about chess , ordinary volunteer activities , children , etc. does n't seem problematic . The main issue is making sure it does n't overshadow the academic content : if you provide more details about your chess activities than about research , then it may give the impression that you are devoting more time and attention to chess than to research . ( Even if that 's not the case . For example , a grad student who is just starting with research but has a lengthy chess history might give the wrong impression , regardless of current priorities . ) If you want to cover non-academic activities in substantial detail , then it may be safer to set up a personal website that is clearly separated from your academic site .
With the submission management systems of most journals , it will be an incredibly obnoxious hassle for the editors to support a double-blind review if the journal 's policy is normally single-blind review . The reason is that , even if you remove names from the manuscript , most review systems present the reviewers with all of the key meta-data about the paper , including the author identities . This information is tied to author accounts in the system , the paper production and publication process for accepted papers , and possibly also external systems such as <URL> . This is configured right into the software , so the only method most editors would have for supporting double-blind would be to have the authors create pseudonymous accounts and then later work with the production staff to manually intervene and change all of the metadata ( likely screwing up their records as well ) before the paper actually appeared . Thus , given the degree of hassle and problems involved , I would expect most editors to refuse without some sort of exceedingly unusual extenuating circumstance . You can always ask politely , of course , but you should expect the answer to be no .
This is a classic example where talking to your advisor is of the utmost importance . Some advisors want their students to choose a topic as early as possible , and others do n't mind if their students take their time . As for the topic , hopefully , your advisor should be able to point you in a direction if you do n't already have one . While I understand the rush to get started on something concrete , you really do n't want to do a lot of work on a topic that ends up being ( 1 ) uninteresting , and ( 2 ) unfruitful . Talk to as many other faculty and students as you 'd like , and there is n't anything wrong with reading ahead , with the exception that you might not understand something well enough to make a good decision about whether you should do research in the subject . My bottom-line suggestion is to take your time picking a topic , because you really do want it to be a good one .
end question
start question
Should I mention this health issue I had on my graduate school application ?
I think it is worth mentioning . Of course , you do n't need to say " my health issues caused a B + " . Just mention the health issue at that particular time , and what you had to do to complete your work . Besides explaining your performance that semester ( and a single B + is n't very much to worry about ) , this shows your ability to overcome adversity and still succeed . Here are some other questions about explaining lower grades for non-academic reasons , and the answers largely seem to agree that it is a good idea to mention the circumstances : <URL> <URL>
Definitely stay long enough to get the accreditation . And think very carefully before leaving . In particular , look at why actuarial professors stayed a decade . Maybe their employer paid for their PhD . ( some will shun PhDs , others will welcome them . Guess which you want ) And maybe being in industry gave them access to data that they could n't possibly have got if they 'd been outside industry . Access to lots of data should mean lots of papers . Lots of papers means furthering your academic career . But do n't just stay in industry letting your skills rot and your knowledge become outdated . Be a researcher , while in industry . Maybe do some lecturing or in-house training too .
From experience , both as a member of ResearchGate and as a postgraduate , I would say the main question is more about worth than about acceptability . Sounds like you did the right thing when you posted these papers the first time , with characterizing them as undergraduate works , therefore managing expectations . You feel these papers may be of interest to others ; fair enough . Statistics of opens and reads , and any message you get about them could be a good indication of how worthy they are to peers . If nobody gets to see them , you might as well keep them to yourself . Over 100 reads for an undergraduate paper sounds rather cool , and might give you an interesting clue about the popularity of your paper topic , and might encourage you to work further around the same topic for further research and papers .
Whatever you say , do n't get defensive or passive-aggressive . Just discuss the remark as it is . He may be right , he may be wrong , and he may just have an interesting point , which , while not invalidating your approach , may show you some ways not to go . I 've seen various possibilities and derailed at least one talk myself . Such situation is not very common but it happens now and then and what it really calls for is pursuing the issue to the end ( not necessarily during the talk ; you 'll have to think when discussing such stuff , and being at the blackboard with 20 people looking at you slows your brain down quite a bit ) . If it is not immediately clear that the observation just kills the presentation completely ( in which case the only decent exit is to step down ) the obvious immediate response would be something along the lines " Thanks for the observation . I have n't noticed that . Let 's discuss it right after the talk " . In most cases people will be happy to do it and you 'll learn something new in the process . It is normally understood that the discussion of a controversial point during the talk itself is not a great idea . As to how serious it is , it wo n't hurt your reputation much , if that was the question , but it may be serious enough to force you to completely abandon your current approach and that is something you 'll need to find out . Do n't expect the objection disappear once that professor is out of the room . If it was a valid point , it will arise again and again , so you 'd better address the issue right away .
It does n't sound like he is just being kind . Using the wording " strongly encourage " is a good sign . Many US universities do not let individual professors have much of a say in a admissions and his response may be a reflection of that . Furthermore , many professors are not willing to commit to advising any students before they have been accepted . It sounds like this professor wants you to apply and would be open to talking more if you are accepted ( or are visiting ) . You can continue to look for advisers , but I 'd imagine most of them will say the same thing . It 's never a bad idea to see what else is out there , but it 's hard for many professors to say much this early in the process .
As the commenters have pointed out , a lot will depend on your ability to get good letters of recommendation . However , there is an important issue to note : a good letter of recommendation does not mean the same thing as " a letter from someone famous . " You can get a letter of recommendation from a big name that is completely useless , if it does n't provide any real information of value about the candidate . Instead , what you want are people who can testify that you are a good student , and show evidence that you can become a good researcher . Since you have excellent records , and are working with a research group before applying to graduate school , I think you have the right groundwork for getting good letters . To make sure that you do so , you 'll want to meet with the people who will be writing the letters , make sure that they are willing and enthusiastic about writing the letters ( hint : if they are at all hesitant , do not get a letter from them ! ) , and then provide them with the necessary material they 'll need ( CV 's , samples of writing and research work , citations and awards , etc. ) to write the letter . Ultimately , the only way attending an unranked school will affect your chances of getting in as a graduate student is if the admissions committee at the school you 're applying to shows such a bias . If you 're concerned about such a possibility , and have the resources ( time , money , motivation ) to do so , setting up a meeting with the person in charge of graduate admissions at the department you 're interested in probably ca n't hurt .
Yes , it can be mentioned . I would put a category on your CV titled " service to the profession . " In that section , mention the year and the name of the journal that asked you to referee . It 's not a major point , but it shows that you 're willing to be a team player and help out the journal . That speaks both to your professionalism and to the fact that the editor trusted your judgment .
I underwent an interview recently from a prospective adviser , and I found the questions he asked of me to be pretty insightful - hence I 'm sharing them here . Why do you want to pursue research in this specific area ? This would highlight the candidate 's motivation in wanting to do research in a particular field - and would also tell the professor more about the candidate 's exposure to this area . What made you apply to this lab/university , as a continuation of the previous question ? The answer would tell you whether the applicant had simply browsed the rankings list of universities , or did he/she actually go through the research publications of the lab - and the application was done due to an intersection of the two ! What would you like to be doing post Ph.D. ? There is no " right " answer to this , but it also tells a lot about the candidate 's motivation in pursuing a PhD . Finally , you can ask the candidate to discuss any problem that he is familiar with in that field - does n't have to be anything fancy/complicated , but that would serve to highlight the clarity of the applicant 's reasoning , communication skills , and level of exposure to the field .
No , and no . You should not try to hype up yourself with subjective comments in your CV or elsewhere in job applications , say . Other people do n't do this , and if you do you will seem strange and possibly desparate . Your CV should be a list of objective information . It is the job of your references to compare your work to other people 's and say how impressive it is . About the most you can do is keep the review in a personal " feel good " folder and look back at it when you need self-encouragement .
In my mind , this will depend on how much you contributed to the grant , and what stage of your career you 're in . I 'll also ignore things like the NSF or NIH requiring reporting research support even if you are n't the PI for biosketches and the like . If you 're a graduate student or ( depending on the grant ) a postdoc , it 's reasonable that you would n't be the PI , because you ca n't be the PI by institutional rules , or because in the current funding climate , or with the scope of the grant , etc. there 's just no way a postdoc-PI grant is going to get funded . Never the less , putting it on your CV shows that you 're thinking about funding and participating in the process , even if you are n't heading it up . It 's the grants equivalent of being a middle author on a paper as an undergrad . What 's important though is , as with every element of your CV , that you be able to cogently talk about what it was about , and how you contributed to the writing of it . It 's one thing to say " My supervisor was the PI , but I did the bulk of the writing and planned out the grant " and something else entirely if you were just along for the ride .
The value is going to be hard to quantify , as it will likely depend on you , the people reading the application , your field , etc. . It will range in the eye of the reader somewhere between " 0 " and " Less Than a Published Paper " . Things a Paper " In Prep " Does Do : It shows you 're thinking about research enough to want to write a paper about it , and have engaged in actually doing so . How big of a deal this is alone likely depends on your field , institution , etc. . If you give an interview , it gives people a targeted thing to talk about . I 've been asked questions about a manuscript ' in submission ' before , because the interviewer thought it sounded interesting . These kind of directed questions , in something you 're hopefully very comfortable talking about , are probably more useful than " So ... tell me about yourself . " Things It Does n't Do : Critically , it does n't actually show that you can write a paper . It shows that you can write something you 've decided to call a paper , but the key act of academia , getting it published has n't happened yet . Depending on how well your advisor is known by the admissions people , you might get some credit for " Dr. Superbigdeal would n't let anything come out of her lab unless it was solid gold ... " but I would n't count on it . Or alternatively , I could submit my draft and wait for the reviewer 's opinion , so I can put mark the paper as " in review " . This will serve as a proof that my work is mature enough to be seen by others . But is it worth it ? I 'm not sure this will meaningfully change the value of a paper . Getting it published ? Major shift in its value . Shifting from in prep to in review ... distinctly less so . Because again , it 's lacking that last critical piece of being actually accepted . The difference between the two can be as trivial as a few buttons on a website , and personally , I would treat the difference as such .
I would include which certain aspects of the faculty would support your intentions and why , especially if you can include meaningful references to their previously published work . For example " I believe that University X would be a great place to undertake my research into topic Y because it has a great reputation in this field . For example books A and B published by person C are well known texts in the field and I believe the research of person D in the area of E would compliment mine . "
Yes , it is . English is a lingua franca , but that does n't mean that all scholarly literature must be in English . Make sure your paper is in a institutional or disciplinary repository , if you like the idea of your paper to be open access . Translate it , as Davidmh suggests , to make it even more available . Regarding indexing in Google Scholar , that depends by the site you archive your paper into . You can make <URL> , but in my experience even if you suggest resources to GS you can not be sure you 'll be .
At least in my geographic region ( Texas , or the US southern states ) , a professional school implies a curriculum that targets specific skills for a particular vocation . In effect , this is akin to my awkward bastardization of several concepts : " Teach a man to fish and he can become a fisherman ... help him learn how to think and he can pursue a career in whatever he wants . " The former refers to a professional/vocational school . The latter refers to accredited universities with broader range of curriculum missions . Granted , this reflects my biased perspective : admittedly , vocational schools have a ( usually ) noble and useful purpose , but proper universities can offer so much more to enrich the whole student , and potentially brighten the intellectual and career outlook for years to come .
I think you have largely hit the nail on the head in your own post . There is nothing intrinsically wrong with charging for valuable experiential information . In fact , this really could be an extension to charging for ' edits ' or tutoring . Really if they are providing non-sensitive information regarding the procedures and what the admissions panel look for - then I do n't see any major ethical quandaries . However , you highlight a key point . They could be leaking information explicitly obtained from the panel ( that I assume they would have delivered in confidence ) . If this is the case , then I imagine it should be intuitive what the schools reaction would be . The reason this is unethical ( from my POV ) is that they are no longer sharing experiential information , but providing them with explicitly ' leaked ' outcomes that would give a disproportionate advantage . By analogy with the edit example . It would be fine for a tutor to edit and provide feedback on a students work . To the majority of people , I think they are aware this occurs and there are no ethical problems . In fact , a tutor might go so far as to show them example assignments . In fact , my department actively encourages students and postgrads to seek and help out students , respectively . However , if the tutor provided the marking key ( obtained from another postgrad running the unit ) and gave this to the student - that is blatantly unethical .
In general , you can put pretty much whatever you want in your CV ( unless there is a template , in which case deciding what to put or not should be pretty straight-forward ) . The question is : what is the point of putting a piece of information in your CV ? Usually , a CV is used in the context of a recruitment process , where the point , in the end , is to give reasons to the recruiter to recruit you instead of someone else . Hence , a piece of information contained in a CV should be instructive , for instance by ensuring that you do have the proper credentials , or by providing evidence that you can be apt to the position you are applying for . Perhaps attending conferences is something relatively rare in your field , and you have attended more than the average PhD students ? In that case , listing all the conferences you have attended could indicate you are very interested in keeping up with recent advances in your field . It could also show that you enjoy travelling . Perhaps you have secure internal or external funding to attend that conference ( i.e. , the funding was not automatically given ) ? That 's also good evidence . You could list them if it provides evidence for an aspect that you are willing to emphasise in your application . On the other hand , if the conferences you have attended had nothing special , or do not help emphasising any particular point , then you might want to keep the space in your CV for something else .
Yes , why not ? For a grad school application , you might as well list anything that shows your interest and involvement in your field . List it as whatever your job title was , and if possible add a line or two describing your activities . But if possible you will want to inform them about it in more depth . If the application includes a cover letter , statement of purpose , or similar essay , use it to describe what you did in this internship and what you learned . If the application requires recommendation letters , consider asking the professor who supervised your internship to write one .
It 's acceptable , but it probably wo n't help and could even easily hurt your application . It might be taken as a threat to the department , i.e. it 's like saying , " I could take this fabulous industry job I 've been offered if you do n't admit me ! " I might find this off-putting if I read it in an application . Departments are n't usually short of applicants , so a reviewer might just put your application aside thinking , " OK , you just go ahead and take that position . I have 50 more applications in this pile over here to go through . " Determination to do research is n't the most important factor in demonstrating your ability to complete a Master 's or PhD program . The internship by itself helps show your passion for research , and maybe helps show that you 're capable of it , but the idea that you 're highlighting your willingness to bail on the internship in order to pursue a higher degree might say to some committee members that you 're also willing to bail on the graduate degree program if something better comes along ( like a nice offer from Google or Microsoft in you 're in Computer Science ) . I think you 're better off using the current internship to show that you are able to make progress in research , and leave the idea that you 've been offered a job extending that research aside , lest you come off as pretentious or threatening . There are lots of suitable graduate school candidates with internships or prior research experience who might also be suitable to the same program . Use yours to show that there 's something different about you .
Disclaimer : This is somewhat field-dependent . I 'm answering based on what I believe to be the current situation in computer science / related fields . 1 ) Can you claim authorship given the way things have evolved ? Probably not . 2 ) Would it have been a good idea for him to find a way to include you in the research collaboration so that you could get something out of your work ? Yes . The area of academia in which I work ( * ) is structured so as to value ideas over implementation . In practice , that means that it 's not uncommon for people who write large amounts of code for a project to get little credit for it , which seems inherently unjust . The way sensible people usually handle this is to make sure that people who do a lot of implementation work are given an opportunity to contribute scientifically over and above that - that allows them to justify their authorship in scientific terms , regardless of the fact that they also made significant non-scientific contributions to the overall project . It 's certainly possible to take advantage of implementers by not doing this , but people who do that tend to find themselves doing the implementation work themselves . Bottom line : He should have had the common sense to include you in the scientific collaboration , and if he did n't have that common sense then his supervisor should have suggested it . As an aside , I would view the situation somewhat differently if you already had a publication as a result of your work . In that case , you 've already got the credit for working on the framework , and there 's less of a moral obligation to include you in the new collaboration : instead , they can simply cite you . I 'm certainly not of the view that writing a framework entitles you to be involved in every paper that is ever built on top of that framework - indeed , I 've written frameworks that other people have continued to use for later research , and I would n't expect to be involved with the papers in question . ( * ) As pointed out in the comments , this may not be the case in other fields .
There are multiple questions that remain unanswered here : Did you meet all of the deadlines for the admissions process ? Did the people who wrote your letters of recommendation send in their references on time ? Did the school promise you a reply-by date ? If so , why did you not contact them at that time ? Did you get an email confirming that the application was complete ? If any of those were missing , then it 's entirely possible that you did n't have a complete application -- in which case , the school is not necessarily required to do anything , because they do n't have a complete record to consider . Moreover , a lawsuit is a horrifically bad idea under the circumstances -- it 's far more time-consuming and expensive than anything you 're going to get back from the school . It 's a waste of your time and money ( unless they rather unlikely made written promises of admission , in which case they may be in bigger legal troubles than just having to return an admission fee ) .
end question
start question
What category in my C.V. should I put papers where I 've contributed but was not listed as an author , nor in acknowledgments ?
I do n't think there 's any good way to include these papers on your CV . It 's not conventional to list anyone else 's papers on your CV , so by default everyone will assume you are one of the authors of each paper you list . If you are n't exceptionally clear , so clear that nobody could possibly misunderstand even if they are just skimming and not reading carefully , then you could easily upset people and give the impression that you are misleadingly inflating your publication record . I think you could probably write it clearly enough ( e.g. , a section called " Papers in which I am acknowledged but not an author " or something equally explicit , in a substantially different location in the CV from your own papers ) . However , drawing too much attention to this unconventional choice would itself be a problem . You want the most attention-getting part of your CV to be your own accomplishments . If readers get distracted by something strange , then it will work against the primary purpose of the CV . These papers would count for almost nothing on your CV anyway , so I see no purpose to including them . In fact , including something like this could look bad , by suggested a desperation to list as much as possible , regardless of how meaningful or important it was . The one case I can think of in which it might be a good idea is a student applying to grad school , with no publications yet but with acknowledgments in a paper or two . Then highlighting these contributions would at least be better than saying nothing . ( But it 's not worth it if you are an author on other papers . ) As I was finishing this answer , I noticed the comment that no mention is made of this contribution in the acknowledgments . In this case , the CV is absolutely the wrong place to deal with this issue , since it does n't give an opportunity to clarify . Intentionally omitting someone who carried out experiments from the acknowledgments is unethical , and doing is accidentally is a serious oversight , but your CV is not a good place to accuse someone of poor ethics or sloppiness . ( Without an explanation , nobody would have any idea what to make of this section of your CV . )
I think you should be honored and flattered by your professor 's suggestion . He/she thinks you deserve a larger share of the credit for the paper and is trying to help you get that credit . Your concern about the CV/publication list is somewhat valid , but there is a simple way to address that issue . In your publication list , put a small asterisk next to the paper in question , accompanied by a footnote saying : " For this publication my coauthors agreed to name me first author as credit for my contributions . In all other publications my name appears in alphabetical order , as is the custom in my discipline and indicating roughly equal contributions from all coauthors . " Of course , adding such a footnote is a bit tedious and awkward , and the benefit you will get from being first author may not be very large . Perhaps you may conclude that it 's not worth the hassle . Or you may feel it could distract people looking at your CV from other things about you that you feel are more important . Or you may think this is just too trivial an issue to care about . All of those would be completely reasonable reasons not to accept the offer . But there would certainly be nothing wrong with accepting it .
I can not speak for faculty interviews personally and this may be redundant information but I interviewed at multiple " top ranked " schools for PhD admissions and in everyone of them I was asked where else I was interviewing and I told them the truth . Having said this , nowadays , most job talk notifications are available on the website of the university or college or institution where you are interviewing and it is relatively easy to determine this from a google search of your name . For instance , this year our department is hiring for 2 different job lines and there are quite a few faculty candidates giving talks every week . We always Google their names to find out where else they are interviewing . In the case of one particular candidate it was very useful to find out that that that candidate had put up a list of other institutions where he/she was interviewing this particular season . I do not think personally that giving them information about where else you are interviewing will add or subtract from your overall job application materials and probabilities . Best of luck for getting a job !
some have suggested complaining or going to some authority , but offer no specific suggestions about how to do this First , you need to understand how the authority chain is structured in academia . Your first course of action is to confront the instructor , which you 've already done . The next step up would be the department head , and after that , the dean of the school -- but I would n't recommend going past the department head with your complaints . You need to do this very carefully . You need to be level-headed , respectful , factual , and specific . Be sure your case is compelling . In the event of a " he-said/she-said " debate , assume the department head will probably lean toward having the faculty member 's back , rather than believing an offended student . Many students are too quick to complain when things do n't go their way , making it easy for complaints to fall on deaf and jaded ears . For example , in the scant details you 've provided here : Assignments are graded without rubric . I wo n't dispute the value of rubrics , but this is hardly a grievous offense . Many instructors do n't opt to use rubrics . Homework is graded inconsistently with instructions . This will be very hard to prove . A lot of assignments are by nature subjective , and it 's hard to pinpoint why grades are given the way they are . Students often turn in work that is inconsistent . For example , say I assign some problem to be answered with an essay question . One student gets right to the heart of the matter , but the overall work is sloppy , and it reads like a draft that was hastily written 10 minutes before class . Another misses the point a little bit , but the essay is carefully crafted and has a lot of supporting detail . A third addresses the matter from an angle I had n't considered before . How are my instructions supposed to cover all those cases , and more ? ( Moreover , assignment instructions are often very hard to get right the first time around , because you do n't yet know how students might misinterpret stated requirements . ) Tests are very hard , but contain no relationship to the course assignments and lessons . The first part of that is not a problem , although the second part is . If you start out by complaining about difficult tests , you may come across as a whiner and get very little sympathy or support . Be very careful about even mentioning that " tests are very hard . " You 'll also have to figure out what you want the end goal of your complaints to be . Do you want action taken before the semester is over ? Or are you only looking to give feedback so that next year 's students do n't find themselves in the same unfortunate circumstances ? If you 're hoping for intervention this term , probably the best you could hope for is for the department head to counsel the instructor , urging him to get his act together before the end of the term . But there are two sides to every story , and , unless your complaints are true on a large level , you 're unlikely to get much sympathy . In other words , a bad question here and there on an exam is part of getting a new course underway , as are confusing assignments . If these are just normal " growing pains , " you 'll come off as a malcontent . On the other hand , if these are verifiable , wholesale shortcomings in the ability to conduct a course fairly and effectively , you might get a department head to step in , and urge the professor to get his act together . Even then , though , you 'll probably have to make it to the end of the course , and you might see very little improvement . It 's unlikely that the instructor will be reassigned midstream . In short , you 'll have to convince the department head that this faculty member is bordering on incompetence , and that it 's not merely a case of an unpopular professor . This might be a tough sell .
I suspect the advisor is relative young and probably not fully even aware of the problem . Her perception of events may be completely different . She may feel that she contributed the essential part of the idea to make it valuable . She may not even remember that the idea came from you originally . But that does not mean that she should n't be corrected and give credit to you . This can probably be solved by communicating with her , or by communicating with someone more senior , who could have a talk with her . Are there any annual progress meetings where this could be done ? Not dealing with the problem will only exacerbate it .
I would reserve the acknowledgments section for people or organizations that directly contributed to the paper . For example , if you talked with Erikson while he was still alive and he offered advice or suggestions , then it would be appropriate to thank him in the acknowledgments . If you were just inspired by his papers , then it is better to discuss that elsewhere in the paper . For example , you could note in the introduction that your approach is inspired by Erikson 's work on psychological development , or you could mention this background when you define the terms based on his theory . But if you thank him in the acknowledgments section , then people will assume there was a more personal connection unless you clearly specify otherwise ( " Although I was never lucky enough to discuss this work with him in person , I owe Erik Erikson a great debt for ... " ) . The main thing you should not do when thanking a deceased person is to attribute opinions to them , because they are not around to contradict you . For example , you should not thank them in a way that suggests they supported your work , even if it 's true , unless you have some documented proof . For example , it 's awkward to write " I am deeply grateful to Erik Erikson for his steadfast belief in my theory . "
In case the email was actually intended for the other person , it would be courteous to reply , saying that you got an email from him that you think may have been meant for someone else .
The rules of thumb are : Established facts are reported in the present tense ( " The path of light follows Fermat 's principle of least time " ) . However , you should use the past tense when you refer to previous work in the field ( " Maxwell et al. demonstrated clearly in a laser cavity experiment that no mirror is perfect " ) . The experiments , simulations or calculations you performed are narrated in the past tense ( " We dissolved the remaining solid in a 5:1 solution of acetone and benzonitrile , and heated to 200  C for three hours . " ) Discussion of the data presented in the paper uses the present tense ( " The results obtained , shown in Fig. 3 , clearly emphasize that the cell colonies grew faster on pink toothbrushes than green ones . We attribute this to the color-sensitivity , or kawai factor . " ) Mathematical proofs are written using the present tense , because going through the proof occurs at the time of reading ( " From Eqn . 1 , we derive the following system of inequalities " ) . Overall , the choice of tenses is actually pretty logical .
Regardless of whether it is homework or any other sort of technical document , the correct date to put on a technical document is the date of its most recent revision . If the history is important , other dates can be added as well ( e.g. the submitted/revised/accepted dates on some journal papers ) . As for your professors never saying anything ... they likely had no reason or even ability to discriminate between the different systems you used to date , and it likely did not matter for the purposes of the class .
In addition to sending an e-mail to the journal , as suggested already , you should check the most common academic databases such as Scopus and Web of Knowledge/Science and submit corrections to them so that they pick up the citation correctly . They have a form to submit this kind of corrections automatically ; it will then take a few weeks to apply them . People often ( way too often , actually ) rely on these databases to measure the performance of academics , so it is important that they do n't miss any of your citations .
If you have just submitted the paper , chances are you have n't given the rights over to the committee . As long as you have n't agreed to some terms and conditions that gives temporary ownership to the conference , then you should still have ownership of the paper and can do what you want with it . If you want to be doubly sure , a short email to the conference proceedings editor can erase any doubt you may have .
The most important thing you need to do is figure out the copyright status . If you have given them exclusive rights to reproduce the work , then you may not be able to publish it anywhere else . It is likely that the copyright transfer was part of a publication contract where the publisher has agreed to publish your work in exchange for the copyright transfer . Hopefully , the publisher will given up the rights you transferred to them . If they wo n't , you may need to get a lawyer to explore your options . Having listed the paper in a scholarship application is problematic . Paper-based journals and journals that generate DOIs create a permanent record of the published papers . In your case , it seems a published paper has simply disappeared . I would write to the places you have submitted an application and explain the situation . something along the lines of The paper XXX , which I listed on my application , was published by YYY . Unfortunately , YYY is a known predatory publisher and has since made the paper unavailable . I still stand behind the research ; attached is a copy of that work . I am currently working towards resubmitting the manuscript to a reputable publisher . I am sorry for any problems this causes .
Ask one of your professors or the administration about what the best course of action is . Most likely , you should publish as affiliated to the university as the work was conducted while you were at university . In any case , you have nothing to lose by doing so .
PhD admission committees look for evidence of your ability to successfully complete the PhD program . Published papers can be a big hint that the answer is " yes " . Unless it can be argued that the journal is a predatory one , I would suggest mentioning the published paper in your application if you think that the paper is of good quality . Even when the journal is not so well known ( but has good standards ) , it shows that you can perform the type of work expected from you if they choose to accept you .
Yes , it is . English is a lingua franca , but that does n't mean that all scholarly literature must be in English . Make sure your paper is in a institutional or disciplinary repository , if you like the idea of your paper to be open access . Translate it , as Davidmh suggests , to make it even more available . Regarding indexing in Google Scholar , that depends by the site you archive your paper into . You can make <URL> , but in my experience even if you suggest resources to GS you can not be sure you 'll be .
Somewhere during my studies I have learnt , that a figure and its caption should form a self-contained element . That means , if I isolate a single figure and its caption from a random publication and gave it to you , you should from those bits of information be able to deduce what this figure is about and what you see there . That does of course not mean , that a physicist must be able to understand the full implications contained in a figure drawn by a chemist or vice versa , but they should be able to understand that " fancy stuff " is in the top left , " other fancy stuff " in the center is indicated with some arrow annotations and a drawn overlay indicates the mechanism that makes them do whatever is interesting . So in your special case , either make a legend containing the meaning of your different colored nodes or , if that is not possible , describe that in the caption . You can repeat that in the text if you feel it 's necessary , but you 're not obliged to do so in general . Also , it 's no obligation to put into the figure caption the full interpretation of the implications you draw from this figure -- this should go to the text . Hence the figure caption could be something like Figure 1 : Process scheme of the process of doing fancy stuff . Yellow nodes indicate XX , red ones show YY and green ones TT . In the text , there can then be the interpretation of the figure , for example : The process scheme of this is shown in Figure 1 . As can be seen from the arrangement of the red , yellow and green nodes , everything is very colourful -- which is very good in our case -- and the guys at management would love it . However , a closer look at the connection between node " foo " and node " bar " reveals , that there could be some problem in [ whatever fancy stuff you want to say ] ... TL ; DR : Put the stuff that is necessary to understand what 's in the figure either directly into the figure ( legend ) or into the caption . The discussion of the figure can go to the text .
It 's better to put what is on the copyright page of the book in question . If you do n't have it , then you may have to punt , but wherever you can use the full reference , you should . Edited to add : The goal in a citation is to allow your reader to find the exact work that you used , so you need to be as precise as you can . If there are different editions , etc , they may have different publication locations , so make sure you described the physical volume you have precisely . If you do n't have the physical version , then be sure to give your reader 50 years from now the ability , as best you can , to track it down .
If the paper you are speaking about is a published research paper , you should contact the publisher ( e.g. , Springer ) , as they do deal with copyright issues . If the paper is a technical paper , written by a set of authors about a subject , and those papers are hosted on an university website or a research-based company , then you need to contact the authors . If the paper is not a research or technical paper , then well the question is not related to the Academia section .
The only thing you can really do here is to contact the organizers and publishers of both journals , and indicate what is going on . More likely than not , you will need to withdraw one of the papers , as publishing both papers under very similar titles with identical scientific content ( or very nearly so ) is considered inappropriate .
Supplementing the answer from abatkai : The rules likely vary by field also . In chemistry , converting previously published papers into a <URL> is generally accepted and commonplace . My thesis contained a chapter that was prefaced " Portions of this chapter were previously published as ( citation ) , and have been reproduced with permission . Copyright is held by ( publisher of the journal ) . " This was followed by further copyright information and the statement required by the publisher . My institution also required that I submit paperwork in support of my use of published and copyrighted material . In addition to consulting your adviser and your institution , you should consult the journals in which you publish . Many have policies in place for this . For example , from the American Chemical Society 's <URL> : The current ACS Journal Publishing Agreement covers several permitted uses by authors ... Permitted uses of all versions include : Use in theses and collections of your own work
end question
start question
Does publishing in journals known as " predatory " hurt one 's reputation ?
Yes , your reputation is diminished , because people will think you could n't get published any other way . It will actively harm your chances at pretty much any interaction with reputable organizations , including grant proposals . Do n't do it .
Before jumping to conclusions , first review your university 's grading policy . There may have been changes to the classification system . If , after reviewing it , you find that the grade is indeed " negative , " then you need to have a conversation with your advisor . Do not come with an accusatory tone , as that will end badly for everyone . I would ask something like : " I 'm a little confused about my thesis grade . I thought I was making satisfactory progress this semester . Could you explain what I need to do to improve ? " This will give your advisor an " out " if there was just an administrative mixup ( for example , if it 's a bubble form that was improperly filled out ) or some other problem . On the other hand , if there 's something serious , then you 'll know . But usually a good advisor will level with you if there 's serious issues in your work .
Based on our work with them , it seems to be a high quality publication . We published a JoVE article last year and several of the protocols we use in the lab are adapted from other JoVE articles . So it seems effective in its mission . The video format really works for certain protocols , and it may make it easier for people to reproduce your work ( thereby getting you more citations ) . That said , there is the price tag to consider , and the editorial process is extensive and time consuming ( you write an article , then go through normal peer review , then work with them to turn it into a screenplay , then get everyone together with the videographer they provide , etc. ) . So I would say that if your method does not specifically benefit from the video format , there is n't an advantage over a conventional methods journal . As far as how it 's received , I have n't noticed any differences from any other small journal .
In general , this kind of result might be worth publishing , also in top journals . However , it is impossible to tell without knowing the specifics . It might well be something that has been known as a " folklore result " for long in your field . Luckily , you say that the leader of your research group is the major expert on this . So , ask him and not a random bunch of people from other fields you found on the internet . If you have already asked and he disagrees , chances are that he is right . But if you disagree and insist that it is a major breakthrough , you can still write everything up , put it on arXiv , and wait for feedback from other researchers .
The question , although reasonable , seems hard to answer in general terms . Programmatic change is generally not done by individual faculty members in a department , but by groups and/or committees of them , in confluence with the department Chair/Head . Many programmatic changes do not " go through " the Dean -- in particular " day to day " business usually does not -- but those involving nontrivial financial changes usually do . For all but the smallest colleges it is rare for individual faculty members other than the Head to have substantive conversations with the Dean about such things : again , it would be better if they went through the department as a whole and/or the Head . When it comes to financial outlays that must be approved by the Dean : I 've seen plenty of instances where the Dean approves but " just does n't have the money , " so I would have to think that even mild disapproval of the initiative would sink it pretty thoroughly . Perhaps the most useful thing I can say is : look at where the program is now and look at where it was in the recent past . If you are really unhappy with the current position or the perceived trajectory of the department , then you should not count on being happy with it in the future ( no matter who the Dean is ) . Conversely , if those look reasonably good to you , talk with the faculty and see how they feel about the future . If there 's some important change coming around the bend , I hope they will let you know . But it is more likely that being in the department for the next ten years or so will be roughly like having been in the department for the last ten years or so . The Dean does not reside in the department , so unless s/he is actively at war with the members and interests of the department , some disagreement in the overall vision need not affect the actual working life of a professor in the department unduly . By the way , the bit about the Dean " may leave in the next 5 years " sounds way too vague to take seriously . Maybe s/he will and maybe s/he wo n't . If s/he does , maybe the next Dean will be better or maybe worse . It is very hard to plan for the future with regard to this kind of thing : honestly , I probably would n't even try .
No , it 's generally not possible . Almost all Ph.D. programs have a rule against admitting someone who already has a research doctorate . Under special circumstances , one might be admitted as an unfunded Ph.D. student in a completely different field ; but in the same field , never .
I would say the two most important points are to make slides you are comfortable with and not to limit your oral presentation to reading your slides . Furthermore , if you are presenting a research paper , i.e. , where more written material is available to the audience , then the objective is usually to make people want to read your paper , instead of explaining the entire paper in 20 minutes . Some people prefer to have full slides , arguing that when members of the audience are not understanding English very well , it can help them to have both the oral presentation and the slides , especially when the speaker does not speak a perfect English . It is also helpful for members of the audience who got distracted at some point , and who can quickly read where the speaker is . Other people prefer minimal slides , arguing that having both the full text and the oral presentation might confuse the audience . In particular , whenever a slide is displayed , the audience tends to read it immediately , and during the reading , to be less receptive of any spoken words . In other words , the only " bad " presentation would be to have full slides , and to limit your presentation to reading them , because you become basically useless . However , you can have long slides , as long as you consider them as an aid for the audience who have n't followed what you said ( for whatever reason ) , and not as your script to read . You can also minimal slides , containing only the key points . In the end , you need to be comfortable with your slides , and to give a presentation like one you would like to attend .
One way , especially since you are not an expert of the field ( and even if you were ) , is to not make such an absolute claim : To the best of our knowledge , no other necessary or sufficient conditions are currently known . At least in my field ( robotics ) , this is quite common and I think an appreciated amount of humility .
I know that graduate research students should not publish works without their professor 's permission . It 's a little more complicated than that . Nobody needs permission to publish anything that they did entirely on their own . If you work collaboratively or as part of a team , then it 's not 100 % your work and you need your collaborators ' permission . If you do not collaborate but work under someone else 's supervision , then it 's still polite to ask for advice/permission . ( They might see it as more of a collaboration than you do , and in any case your submission may reflect on their supervision so it is reasonable to get their feedback first . ) Is this rule relevant to students in taught programs ? If you have no collaborators or supervisors in the research , then you can publish it however you 'd like . Can I submit my paper for credit in a course , without giving up ownership of the paper ? I do n't know of any case where you give up rights to a paper by submitting it in a course , so ownership is probably not the relevant issue here . In the universities I 'm familiar with , you can certainly submit for publication an essay that was written for a class assignment ( most such papers would not be accepted for publication , but a few could be ) . On the other hand , you can not get class credit for a paper that you previously wrote for another purpose . The precise rules in your case may differ , but if you plan to use this paper for a class you should investigate your university 's rules .
The most important thing you need to do is figure out the copyright status . If you have given them exclusive rights to reproduce the work , then you may not be able to publish it anywhere else . It is likely that the copyright transfer was part of a publication contract where the publisher has agreed to publish your work in exchange for the copyright transfer . Hopefully , the publisher will given up the rights you transferred to them . If they wo n't , you may need to get a lawyer to explore your options . Having listed the paper in a scholarship application is problematic . Paper-based journals and journals that generate DOIs create a permanent record of the published papers . In your case , it seems a published paper has simply disappeared . I would write to the places you have submitted an application and explain the situation . something along the lines of The paper XXX , which I listed on my application , was published by YYY . Unfortunately , YYY is a known predatory publisher and has since made the paper unavailable . I still stand behind the research ; attached is a copy of that work . I am currently working towards resubmitting the manuscript to a reputable publisher . I am sorry for any problems this causes .
The advantages are that you get to stake a claim to some sense of ownership of the work ; it 's a way of inviting feedback and collaboration from others by showcasing your work in progress ; and it 's a quicker way to publish your work than submitting to a journal or conference . So when do you publish your work as a working paper ? When the following conditions are met : You 've done some work . And some combination of : you want feedback on it from a wider group than your immediate colleagues ; you want to showcase your work to get new collaborators , new funding , or improved career prospects you want to publicly stake a claim to the work you 've done And some combination of : the follow-up work is something that you 've already got sufficiently far advanced that it is very unlikely that you will get scooped by your competitors ; you 're not bothered about being first to publish the follow-up work yourself . And publishing your work in a working paper wo n't prevent it from appearing ( possibly in modified form ) in a journal .
You are generally allowed to publish even in a non-open access journal even if a pre-print is on the arXiv . Most journal copyright agreements explicitly allow the authors to post the article online . Here 's an example of a fairly generous one : The ASL hereby grants to the Author the non-exclusive right to reproduce the Article , to create derivative works based upon the Article , and to distribute and display the Article and any such derivative work by any means and in any media , provided the provisions of clause ( 3 ) below are met . The Author may sub-license any publisher or other third party to exercise those rights . and a less generous one which still allows the author to post a copy online : I understand that I retain or am hereby granted ( without the need to obtain further permission ) rights to use certain versions of the Article for certain scholarly purposes , as described and defined below ( " Retained Rights " ) , and that no rights in patents , trademarks or other intellectual property rights are transferred to the journal . The Retained Rights include the right to use the Pre-print or Accepted Authors Manuscript for Personal Use , Internal Institutional Use and for Scholarly Posting ; and the Published Journal Article for Personal Use and Internal Institutional Use . I 've seen examples where the journal actually did some genuine copyediting beyond what the referee did where the author was n't allowed to post the version that benefited from the copyediting , but could still post the earlier version . So , for most journals , the answer is that you 're allowed to post the article online because it 's specifically allowed by the document they ask you to sign . But it is possible that posting on the arxiv will rule out particular journals that have more restrictive policies .
I am at an American private research university . There is no general university or department pool of money that I can use to pay for professional association or conference registration . However , I am given both an annual conference travel fund as well as individual research funds . I am free to use those as I see fit within reason for purposes that promote my research and scholarship . That would include association registration as well as annual meeting registration . Fine print : There are some restrictions . For example , I am affiliated with some programs on campus that provide research funds but I am supposed to use those funds for those research categories . Thus , I could use the research funds given to me by the fictive Elbonian Studies Program for registration with the American Association of Elbonian Studies as well as for their annual meeting ; I could use it for my general Anthropology association registration , but I should n't use it for a conference/association that has no connection to Elbonian Studies .
I 've worked on a few method development projects and I 'm of the opinion that it is a good idea particularly if the author is well-known and well-liked ( if they are a dick or you do n't like them , that 's a different story ) . The obvious reason why is because when they happened to see your paper going out for review which claims a " massive improvement " over previous methods , they are n't going to get upset at you and pull strings to make your life miserable . Furthermore , they might have insight whether or not the new method is useful or merely enhancing a particular error which makes it look good . The only instance where sharing the paper might be a bad idea is if they happened to be working on a similar improvement . Receiving the paper may motivate them to scoop you .
I 've never been one to sit down and read a journal edition cover to cover . I think you 're better off skimming titles and abstracts for articles that pique your interest . You should do this for conference proceedings too . You ca n't attend every talk at a conference , nor should you really expect yourself to read every article . At some point you will need to narrow your interest to something pretty specific in order to develop a dissertation . You will also need to develop depth and historical perspective on your chosen topic . You should probably spend as much , if not more , time reading interesting individual articles and all their important references ( and so on ! ) as you should trying to read whole journal editions or entire conference proceedings . There 's value in a depth-oriented approach to reading articles . I find that there 's a pruning strategy of sorts that keeps you out of stuff that 's not interesting . Sometimes randomly selected articles can be worthwhile , but there 's lots of stuff out there that will be boring to you . Using a good article as a guide and reading some of its references can be much more productive .
Yes , but to avoid confusion , clearly label it as such . Similar to how you can list papers with ( submitted ) or ( under review ) , you can list presentations and posters as ( confirmed ) or some other indication that the plan is final and has been accepted . If you do n't label it as such , there is a risk the reader may believe the year is erroneous .
Yes , high-profile journals do typically edit figures for style and consistency . You will find this information on their web sites , e.g. <URL> .
If a paper is published in a very good journal ( one that is sufficiently good that it does n't need to accept boring papers to fill issues ) , that means somebody ( reviewer , editor ) thought its contributions would be interesting , novel , and/or useful to a nontrivial subset of the journal 's audience . But , this does n't mean that the paper is interesting to everyone . ( Very few papers are ! ) For example , I usually find papers that say " We applied a known technique to optimize problem X for some metric Y " very boring , but others in my field appreciate these contributions . In some cases , you may find the paper uninteresting because you either understood less than the reviewer or more than the reviewer . It often takes some knowledge of the field to really appreciate the contribution a paper is making . In most journals , the authors are allowed to assume that the reader already has some field-specific knowledge . If you read the paper without understanding this context , it will probably seem boring or not useful to you . It works the other way as well . Sometimes , a reviewer reads a paper and thinks , " This is an important contribution , " but those with more knowledge understand that it is n't . For really good journals , the editor can usually find a reviewer who understands the field well , so this ( ideally ) does n't happen as often . I am sure somebody can think of a paper that was accepted only for e.g. , political reasons , and is genuinely , objectively unimportant . These are rare enough that I do n't think these are the papers you are asking about .
If certain fields of academia do in fact frown upon " popularizing " science , then they are shooting themselves in the foot . One of the most important ways of securing funding in different disciplines is through getting support by the federal governments in which they are working . Convincing politician X that you should fund research on doohickey X and widget Y to solve problem Z rather than funding their new shopping mall or football stadium requires convincing them that your research is important and worthwhile . The key to doing this is having a message to sell -- something that the lobbyists and staff persons working for the government officials can take to them and say " this is what you need to know about why this is important . " An excellent way of doing this is to take part in writing columns , producing features for television , and other " popular " methods of outreach . You 'll have to figure out how to distill your message in a way that 's exciting for the viewer or reader , and that will help no only you but your peers as well .
There are some general guidelines for choosing members of a PhD committee : They should have some enthusiasm for the work that you do . If they 're not invested in seeing you succeed , you wo n't get as much utility out of that committee member as someone else who might not be as knowledgeable , but is more committed . They should have the time to be on your committee . If they 're extremely busy , then it does n't help to have them on a committee , because it will be difficult for them to attend the meetings -- or it will make scheduling the meetings a nightmare . They should not have conflicts with either you or your advisor . A thesis committee is already a somewhat political body . There 's no need to add extra politics to the situation by having interpersonal or professional conflicts before the committee even begins to meet ! Collectively , there should not be a power " imbalance . " If your advisor is a new assistant professor , do n't overload the committee with a bunch of full professors holding named chairs , and vice versa . When they will set preliminary exams , there 's the additional qualification of : The committee members should be familiar enough with your area that they know what it might make sense to test you on , but not so familiar with your work that they turn it into a " gotcha " game .
end question
start question
Can a PhD student publish a paper outside PhD topic without supervisor approval only by its own ?
There is no general reason why this should not be possible/allowed . You will have to check the regulations of your department/university for PhD students : They may require you to seek approval of your advisor prior to submission of papers . Potentially a journal could have a similar rule in place , but I have never encountered this . That said , I do not believe this to be advisable : If your relationship with your PhD advisor is so bad that do you not feel you can ask them about your intention to submit this paper , you should probably seek a new advisor . If you are so close to graduating that your prefer sitting it out , then rocking the boat is probably a bad idea .
Yes . Admissions committees are looking for evidence of research potential . Having a research publication in any area is direct evidence of that potential . ( One of the first hurdles that I encourage my own PhD students to jump early is publish something . Anything . The point is for them to see the publication process -- writing , editing , submitting , reading reviews , revising , resubmitting -- and to kill off any doubts in their minds that they can do publishable research . )
Conferences are very important in CS . Journals are also important , but they tend to accept more mature work , and therefore might be especially hard to publish into as a beginning graduate student ( which , in your terms , seems to refer to someone who has n't finished his/her master thesis yet ) . Nothing is impossible , of course , but you have to be careful not to end up with no publications after 4 years , just because you were aiming too high . In addition , some journals are very slow to respond , so you might spend half a year or even more waiting for a decision . In the mean time , you can not send this work anywhere else . You should ask students there how the official policy is , it might just be that they do n't want to fund you a trip to a small workshop in Hawaii , but the question could be different if you were to get a paper at POPL . You should also consider that there are good conferences coming to Asia , and many conferences offer financial support to students ( including reducing the registration fee , sometimes even helping with transport/accommodation ) . Finally , if you 're writing your paper with someone else , such as your advisor , this person might be able to travel to the conference and present the paper ( which would be a shame for you not to attend , but it still counts as a publication in your CV ) . EDIT Some clarification : technically speaking , the only important thing is to produce good research , and to write good paper . What you plan to do after your PhD also matters , but if you 'd like to stay in Academia , you will need at some point to get a job , and you will be judged on your papers ( on other aspects too , but papers are very important ) . Now , to answer your question : yes , you could get a job with only journal publications , as long as they are good . Is that the best strategy ? Probably not . Conferences are very important because they allow you to meet other people , to be exposed to state-of-the-art research , to confront your ideas with the community , to get published within a relatively short time period , to receive more frequent feedback , to construct your research project in a more incremental way ( present your idea at some workshop , work on a good conference paper , present the extended version to a journal ) . If I can give you one example , I 've presented some of my work at a workshop with no proceedings ( so it did n't count as a publication ) , and I met there someone who accepted to be one of my external PhD examiners .
It 's common in computer science for a university to have few if any of its own graduates as faculty , and should not be taken as a bad sign by itself . This low representation is for two main reasons : The best five or ten universities in the United States produce a disproportionately large number of strong academic candidates . In practice universities that have research departments at all ( let alone the exceptionally strong ones ) tend to be filled with professors with Ph.D. s from the elite few . Going somewhere else leads to cross-fertilization of academic thought . Presumably after 5 + years of graduate school one has spent a lot of time learning from the expertise available in their department . Going somewhere else allows a professor to transfer her knowledge to a different group of researchers , and to get fresh insight from them in return .
( I will quote a <URL> by <URL> and a <URL> by <URL> . ) You have got three qualities of the thesis production : good , cheap , fast . You can choose two . Hiring a LaTeX specialist is good ( if you find a good one ) , fast ( if you find a good one ) but expensive -- typesetting a 100-page thesis can take around 20 -- 30 hours of work , easily more depending on the text , on the person you work with , on the amount of discussion about the appearance , proofreading etc. . Making it yourself is cheap . However , unless you are Jarod from the Pretender series or you know LaTeX already , it can not be both good and fast . Of course , making it yourself is better in moving your LaTeX skills forward , but I do not think this is crucial for an academic career , surely it is not more crucial than submitting a quality thesis in time . People hire services of all kinds , you get grant-writing , typesetting , conference organization , IT , etc. -- very various kind of out-sourced services for which someone can say : " A good researcher has to be able to do this . " To answer your question about LaTeX services : I doubt universities have , in general , such services themselves . Some have a LaTeX theses class ( of varying quality ) , some even do not have this . However , there are independent LaTeX consults and consulting companies . I ca n't list any since ( 1 ) I do n't know them and ( 2 ) this is not an advertising site . However , remember that these people are highly specialized , and the prices of their services reflect this .
In most places I know ( Europe mostly , France and UK in particular ) , a Master 's degree is nothing more than a tiny blip on your CV by the time you have a successful PhD ( diploma , publication , good recommendations , involved in your community , ... ) . Your lack of a Master 's degree will not hurt one bit ( but it probably will come up in an interview , so you want to have something decent or funny to say about it ) . I suspect the same will be true in most places : by the time you are a post-doc , Master 's degree is not a good predictor of your future success . Regarding age , it 's a very good question , and should probably be separate . As a post-doc , it should n't hurt your chances ( I defended my PhD at the same age you are , so I have given it some thought ! ) . For a staff position , things are very different .
First , check the fine print in the paper itself . Some journals ask the authors to designate one person as the " contact author " or " corresponding author " , and distinguish that author with a notation and a mark on the author list . If that is the case , then that is the person that you should write to . Beyond that , since the professor is well-known in your field , know that you are unlikely to end up doing much direct collaboration with them in any case , simply because they probably already have many different projects in progress . The student is also more likely to respond at all for the same reason . You ca n't know before writing , however , whether you 'd mostly likely end up working with this Ph.D. student or somebody else : if the student still has some years to go , you 'd likely end up collaborating with them ; if they are about to defend , they might either be " taking the project " or handing it off to another student . So if there is n't one person designated as contact author , write to both ( as ff524 suggests in the comments ) , and let them decide how to respond .
Once a person have graduated , there is not generally any remaining formal role for the Ph.D. advisor . In theory , a Ph.D. qualifies them as generally capable of independent scientific research , and they have no requirement to depend on their academic " parent " any more . In practice , however , no person is an island . Most researchers do much better as part of a network of like-minded colleagues who can serve as friends and allies . The Ph.D. advisor is a natural starting point for building such a network , both as someone likely to be a like-minded ally and also by helping build connections based on their own existing network . As the more junior colleague in the relationship , the benefits of interaction are likely to flow more more from the advisor to the former student , but the relationship is likely to grow more peer-like over time . Just as with a biological parent , even after formal independence , this connection is likely to last a lifetime ( but may not if the relationship is not good ) . Also like biological parents , however , Ph.D. advisors ( and others ) often have a hard time adjusting their perspective and seeing their former students as fully " grown up . " This is part of why it 's important not only to maintain a connection with one 's advisor , but also to clearly establish a separate research identity .
I do n't see why your supervisor would be concerned about it , especially if it is relevant for your current research . But , to be sure , let them know about your previous work and emphasise how it is relevant ( and its importance ) to your current work . When you use your paper , make sure that you cite it as you would any paper .
Yes , it is fair . The quality of reviews written by highly experienced researchers is low . Many manuscripts have obvious flaws that should be spotted by the inexperienced . Reviewers are ( in theory ) supervised by the editor . Novice reviewers are more enthusiastic than experienced reviewers . If the paper can not be understood by a PhD student , it will not be useful to very many people . PhD students may have more specialized expertise because they work on fewer projects , as compared to senior researchers ( per @nayrb ) Of course , it depends on the individual PhD student . Some are better prepared to review than others .
I would suggest that you investigate those interesting properties further and then have a paper along the lines of " this structure has this useful property , more-so ( or less-so ) than these other structures . " That is justify why someone would actually use this structure . Think about it from the editors ' point of view . Why should this paper be published ? If you ca n't provide an answer with a straight face then maybe you should wait until there is a purpose for it .
( I assume here that you 're talking about admission to PhD programs . ) I 'm not in computer science , so I ca n't speak with authority . We have a number of users here who are in US computer science departments and maybe one of them can step in . However , I would think that first-author publications would not be essential for admission to good PhD programs in the US . Keep in mind that in the US system , most students would enter a PhD program immediately after their undergraduate ( bachelor 's ) degree , without doing a masters first . These students would not necessarily have any publications at all . The admission committee would expect somewhat more from a student with a masters , but I 'd think any publications , first-author or not , would be a pretty good sign of your research ability and preparation to start a PhD . Another thing to note is that recommendation letters are very important for admission to US PhD programs . If your advisor writes you a letter which speaks highly of the work you did , that should help your application a lot .
There are of course no laws against it but as Editor-in-Chief ( EiC ) myself I would never do ( or at least think twice about doing ) it , particularly not as first author . My reasoning behind this is that it could reflect badly on both me but particularly the journal and send signals that all is not necessarily well . I have to point out that in my case we are two and we have an agreement that we do not touch manuscripts from our own spheres of influence ( basically departments ) . Nevertheless , what actually happens within a journal and how people perceive it are two different things and it is my opinion that as EiC one must safeguard the journals reputation as objective . So if the community expresses some form of trust in the editor to publishing in their own journal this could be perfectly fine . So when an EiC publishes in " their " journal it is not wrong but potentially " dangerous " and can be perceived as poor judgement . They would jeoparize the journals reputation . So even if thetre is no legal problems there are ethical problems . I doubt anyone would have second thoughts about the quality of a journal if the editor does not publish there , after all if the editor has a solid reputation , associating with a bad journal would jeopardize that . Can I see any exceptions ? Well , co-authorship may be less serious but in the end even that should be avoided . I also think that if an editor publishes a single paper in a thematic issue of the journal ( where someone else has suggested a theme ) and this is the only paper by that editor in the journal for years , I would not think much about it . Obviously frequency of publications is also a factor . So , in conclusion , I consider it unwise under most circumstances .
Under normal circumstances , faculty should never yell or shout at a student . However , faculty are also human beings , and there is always the possibility that under emotional strain , they can lash out at a student . I will admit to having been guilty of this once as an advisor , when a student came into my office for a discussion about his research , and made some statements that betrayed a total lack of awareness of what he was doing ( and this was a " veteran " graduate student who should have known better ) . In the context of teaching , students have reason to expect that the faculty member should not shout at them . However , it is unreasonable to expect that any disciplinary action would be taken against a faculty member for a single infraction .
In addition to the other answers , there is a perverse effect to local hiring : a professor can promise to her PhD students/postdocs a permanent position later on , which in turn tends to " tie " the student/postdoc to her professor , perhaps preventing her to develop her own research agenda , and doing more administrative/teaching/supervision tasks than normally required ( to basically look good in the eyes of the advisor ) . This then builds a stack of postdocs , waiting for the next permanent position , which would be awarded not to the best candidate , but to the one who has waited long enough . Of course , I 'm on purpose exaggerating the description , and this is no way can be generalised : many , if not most professors will actually recruit the best possible candidate , local or not . But I have observed this behaviour several times , in different countries , and although forbidding local recruitment would n't solve every problem , it would perhaps solve that one .
Let me explain my comment as an answer . The admission process works in two different ways : Formal enrolment and informal enrolment Formal You apply through university web link and select the research areas or supervisor . Then probably you communicate with the chosen supervisor through email ( s ) . If things go well then you might get an interview call or direct admit . Informal You approach the supervisor first . Discussions or interviews may go on . If everything is alright , you supervisor would speak with the admission committee for your official admit . In both these types of cases your supervisor recommends for the admission . However , it is the decision of the admission committee to make the final call . Note : I have skipped the recommendation letters related points which is a major part in both these types of enrolment . Moreover , each University has their own set of rules . It is wise to go through the same .
This reasoning is Wrong and Bad in several ways . First , computing " mean impact factor " for a person or group is insane and should be resisted at all costs . Even amongst IF-crazy groups , the metric is generally how many high-IF publications have been obtained ( ignoring low-IF publications ) , not the fraction of high-IF publications . Second , even if you 're going to commit yourself to such insanity , the reasonable mathematical interpretation of " no impact factor " is " IF = 0 " , not " omit from data . " Thus , if you 're using this crazy statistic , it should be worse to publish in a no-IF venue . Finally , a journal with no IF generally falls into one of two categories : either it is good but very new ( or just not yet covered by ISI ) , in which case it will likely have an IF in a couple of years and the strategy will be undone , or else is it complete trash and likely predatory , in which case it will be a worse stain on your record than a moderate-IF publication , even amongst the most IF-crazy communities . My only possible conclusions are that either : your supervisor is seriously distorted in their thinking , or your supervisor is lying to you out of embarrassment to cover the fact that they published ( intentionally or accidentally ) in a trash/predatory journal .
This is perfectly acceptable . It is , in fact , fairly common to " upgrade " a white-paper , technical note , or other such non-peer-reviewed publication into a peer-reviewed publication . Two important caveats , however : The appropriate form for a peer-reviewed publication is generally very different than for a blog post or similar informal format . You will likely need to almost entirely rewrite the publication in any case . If the other material is durably available or has been circulated in academic circles previously , however , you should acknowledge this fact and reference the prior publications . This may be in the form of a citation , or in the cover letter of the article , or both .
This is tricky , because in the US there really is no standard/universal handling for this sort of situation . It 's probably going to be different at every department you are thinking of applying to . With that said , there are a few common outcomes , to wit : Some programs will simply say no - you must pay in full at the time of both the original application , and re-application . Some programs offer fee waivers with a variety of requirements . Some programs will waive fee for US citizens with demonstrated need , some programs waive fees for people who participated in certain programs ( often which target helping certain groups get to and succeed in college ) . Some offer waivers/reductions to countries where the relatively reasonable fee to US citizens is just an absurd expense ( especially ones where $ 75 is 2-4 + weeks of average salary ) . This does not apply to every country , however . I suppose it 's technically possible that a program will allow you to pay the fee once and reapply the next year at no additional cost ... but I 've really never heard of that and I 'd be pleasantly surprised if any program you were looking at would offer you that option . I 'd suggest you contact a few of your target programs right away and ask their graduate coordinator what your options specific to the fees are . That 's really the only way I can think of to get a real answer that 's certain enough to help you decide on what to do . But barring answers from your target programs , I would absolutely suggest that you do not simply rely on them being willing to let you reapply at no extra cost or automatically not pay the fee - or even to waive the fee more than once . They are not required to do this by any external rules or laws , and being a foreign citizen or having limited finances are not protected/privileged groups under most US laws . Get direct answers from schools you care about , and then decide for yourself if you absolutely can not afford to apply two years in a row if it comes to that .
Yes . But they are more or less irrelevant at this point . Very , very few people will bother to read them . One journal in my own field was strictly print until a couple of years ago . They are finally included in one database , but with a five year embargo ( meaning only very old articles are available electronically ) . Another newer journal with a similar target audience is completely open access . Obviously , the open-access journal is getting cited more , the established paper-only one less and less . In my opinion , the aversion to making a journal available electronically is based on old-fashioned technophobia . There is no serious rationale for it . Yes , they could get more money from actual subscriptions if libraries and/or individuals were willing to pay for them , but that 's simply no longer a viable model .
end question
start question
Do I have to be affiliated with an institution to publish on arXiv ? Is arXiv the right place to put it ?
Independently of whether you need an affiliation , this sounds like a well-known representation of trig formulas ( Euler 's formula ) . There is quite some theory involved with this , including and up to Galois theory . You should check with someone knowledgeable whether you indeed discovered anything new . It 's fun to discover new stuff , and it 's a cool feeling to recover things that very smart people came up with , but , once you are there , you have to give it the reality check , which is the ultimate hallmark of the scientist . Perhaps some friendly mathematician from the local college is happy to spare half an hour with a talented high schooler to give you at least an idea how novel the idea is or what else to try from this point on ?
Getting a paper accepted for publication in a normal journal is a matter of credibility : you must be able to convince the peer reviewers that the content of your paper is both true and novel . Very high status journals such as Nature or Science work somewhat differently : there you can not reach the peer reviewers until you first convince the editor that your work is " important " and " broadly interesting " enough to consider , which is a somewhat arbitrary process . Let us consider only normal journals , however , where the bulk of all publication takes place : they still have an editorial filter , but it is generally only to ensure a submission is at least vaguely on-topic , not plagiarized , and basically sane . These are pretty low bars to pass , though they are definitely affected by being known . If I see a paper that has come out with a well-known PI as author and that looks like a logical extension on their prior work , I 'm unlikely to scrutinize carefully for being on-topic or sanity : it would be such a blow to the reputation of the PI to misbehave there that I am comfortable to take the small risk that the reviewers might get annoyed because the paper turns out to actually be crazy or off-topic . Not being known wo n't generally hurt an author here , it will just mean their paper is more likely to actually get checked for topic and sanity , rather than simply trusted . The peer reviewers are another matter . Peer review is a very noisy process , and even when double-blinding is used , it is often possible to have a good idea when a well-known person is involved based on the methods that they are using . Most peer reviewers are conscientious and try to do a good and neutral job , but a ( frustrating ) minority are <URL> . Even for those who are trying to do a good job are human and thus are subject to same standard cognitive flaws we all are , like <URL> . All of this means that an unknown 's credibility will likely be assessed differently than a person who is well-known as a good and careful researcher . The unknown person will generally either have to present stronger evidence to be believed or will have the evidence that they do present scrutinized more carefully . That unknown will actually be better off , though , than a well-known person who has a history of sloppy or controversial work , who will typically have an even harder time convincing peer reviewers . Do not draw the wrong lesson from this , however : a person most certainly can publish well as an unknown , early in their career , without relying on the name recognition of co-authors . Many of us do exactly that . It 's just going to be somewhat harder than after one has already established a reputation as a careful and productive researcher . Final note : if you ever find yourself saying " They only rejected my paper because I 'm not [ well-known / popular / one of the cool kids / etc ] " then you are probably wrong and engaging in sour grapes kvetching . If they rejected your paper , then you should also have been provided with clear information about what types of evidence would improve your ability to get accepted . Do that instead .
From your link : Where a government-funded or affiliated entity such as a University attempts to limit the freedom of expression of its students it must carefully consider the students ' Charter right to freedom of expression , and ensure that any limitation is reasonable , justified and compliant with the Charter . It seems like the difference between punishing people for sharing test questions and punishing them for criticizing professors is that one of these is " reasonable and justified , " while the other is n't .
No , you should not put the university logo in the letter . You are not representing your university in an official capacity in a statement of purpose , and therefore using the university 's logo would be inappropriate , as you would be suggesting an official imprimatur for your work .
It does n't matter if the material is promotional or not . It does n't matter if the material is freely available or not . What matters is copyright . You have to ask if you want to use copyrighted material . On a different note , the company may really be unhappy if you use a screenshot which might be of bad quality ( at least it 's a pixel image ) instead of a high quality , tailor made ( possibly vector graphics ) image for that purpose .
First of all , I love the title of your question . What an open , honest way of phrasing things , which makes for a question which just about every academic I know can identify with . Whenever you get a " revise and resubmit " referee report , the two key questions are : How many of the revisions do you want to make ? How many can you make in a reasonable amount of time ? Almost certainly you will resubmit , yes , but : to the same journal or to a different journal ? I take it that by " completely correct " you mean that you agree that all of the suggested revisions would improve the paper . That still does not imply that you want to make all of them : if the revisions ask for significant further work , then it may well be that , yes , you are in the midst of this work / planning to do it in the future but nevertheless you are seeking to publish what you have done so far . Of course if you agree with all of the suggested revisions and you feel that you can do them in a reasonable amount of time -- e.g. , in time to meet the deadline for a conference -- then it seems pretty clear that 's the way to go . I take it though that in your case it is not practical to complete all the suggested revisions in the given amount of time . Your remaining choices are then : ( i ) complete only some of the revisions , explain very carefully in your reply why you considered the other proposed revisions but did not make them , and hope for the best ; ( ii ) indeed resubmit , but elsewhere ; and ( iii ) withdraw the paper until you can complete the suggested work . Then resubmit ( possibly to the same place , if applicable , but starting over again in the formal submission process ) . These are tough choices , and obviously they can not be made globally . All I 'll say is that the more ( !! ) " completely correct " you feel the reviewer 's suggested changes are , the more likely it is that if you do not satisfactorily incorporate these changes then the paper will not be accepted . This still does not mean that revising and resubmitting is a poor choice : you have to do an expected value computation ( e.g. if you can respond to 2/3 of the suggested revisions within a few days , maybe give resubmission to the same conference a whirl : why not ? ) to decide what is your best option . This decision also includes how important it is to you that the paper be published sooner rather than later and how important that it be published in this specific venue . Ideally speaking , you should take the necessary time to publish a " complete " version of your work rather than an unsatisfactorily partial preliminary version ... but in reality , many academics do not have the luxury of fully indulging this ideal .
I had a situation like this come up once , where one person did an extensive analysis that turned out not to be particularly useful , so there was no point in including any details of it in the paper . However , we did feel that having the analysis done did lead ( indirectly ) to a better understanding of what we were studying . Moreover , we also felt that the person who did the analysis deserved some measure of credit in the final paper . So we put a very short mention ( one to three sentences ) in the manuscript , just stating that we had done the analysis , but that it had not led to any useful conclusions , for such-and-such reasons . Since the paper included this , it was unquestionably appropriate to include the person who had done the bulk of that analysis as an author . I would suggest that you could do something similar , so your colleague could unambiguously be considered an author .
Log into you arXiv account and change your e-mail address . You do n't need access to your old e-mail to do this , nor will you lose your arXiv account if you do n't have an academic e-mail address . ( Having an academic address is not a requirement for arXiv participation , after all . ) Once you have an account , there is nothing ( short of administrative action ) that would cause you to lose ownership of your papers or your existing endorsements . It should be no different from changing your e-mail in any other account you have online .
I would say no . When you are awarded an IPRS , you will get the conditions that you need to adhere to . At my university , there is no clause that says you have to pay back anything if you quit . If I were you , apply first , and if you are successful , look at the conditions carefully .
I believe the help page describes the current endorsement policy . You may also have fallen into the category described by " We may give some people automatic endorsements based on topic , previous submissions , and academic affiliation . " As I understand it , most people are in that category and never see the endorsement system in action . In practice , it seems to get applied to cranks and to people who look like they might possibly be cranks ( e.g. , people with no academic affiliation , or who are writing on controversial topics ) .
Posting a master 's thesis on the arXiv is uncommon , but not unheard of . My feeling is that there 's little point to it : if there 's material worth publishing in your thesis , then you should turn it into papers and post them on the arXiv ( in which case the thesis is unnecessary ) , and if it 's not worth publishing then it 's not worth posting to the arXiv . If you decide to post both the thesis and the papers to the arXiv , you should indicate the relationship between them clearly in the comments so you do n't look like you are inflating your publication record with duplicates , as well as in case you trigger the automated plagiarism detection in the arXiv . One potential issue is coauthors . If anything in your thesis is coauthored with someone else ( either from a previous paper or to appear in a future paper ) , then I do not think you should post the thesis to the arXiv . The problem is that you 'd be pointing readers towards a version that lists you as the only author and relegates your coauthors to a brief note in the text , and you would be increasing the chances that they would cite the thesis rather than the coauthored papers . Instead , it 's best to emphasize the papers by posting them to the arXiv instead .
Remember that the way the arxiv works , the default paper identifier goes to the most recent version that 's been uploaded . So even if Google Scholar caches an older version , it 's using the same URL . Now if you make changes like changing the title and/or material parts of the abstract , then it might take a while for the new title to percolate through the search indices .
Yes , of course . The arXiv staff does n't sit around evaluating the credentials of everyone who submits . They reserve the right to reject even endorsed submissions , but this is unusual . The main obstacle to publishing on the arXiv as an undergraduate is writing a suitable paper and getting it endorsed .
I suppose some senior people may publish exclusively on arXiv but they are a minority and I ca n't think of any examples right now . Publishing in mathematics takes a long time . Journal backlogs of multiple years are common enough that if you wait for your paper to appear in print it is already old . This is less of a problem in the other subjects that arXiv covers but still ... So what does publishing on arXiv get the author ? Primarily it gives the paper a time stamp and makes it publicly available . Putting up a paper is fast , it only takes a few minutes and it gives a reference number so that you can cite it in a talk or in a paper . Normally you would have to wait until you get page numbers from a journal . And if you are giving a talk on your paper when you have just finished the work that might still be years in the future . One interesting feature of publishing on arXiv is that you can write small notes and put those up . You can write the " user 's guide " version of a paper . You can post a supplement to a paper that would n't be publishable on its own . Ultimately what it all boils down to is that people post documents to arXiv that they want other people to see and hopefully read . As for prestige , no . There really is n't any as far as I know .
It 's fairly frequent , particularly for smaller or less tightly run computer science conferences , for the response to authors to slip back by a few days . Often , this is because some reviewers may not have sent their reviews in on time , and if the program committee is n't proactive about scheduling for slippage and having backups available , it may take them a few extra days to get enough reviews to decide on those papers . This then is likely to delay responses for all of the papers , because both the organizers and the conference software wants to sent all of the notifications at once . So , to your question of what to do : If you know anybody else who sent in a paper , compare notes with them . If they have n't heard yet either , no worries . If they have heard , then you can email immediately . If you do n't know somebody else , give it a week , and then ask .
This is perfectly acceptable . It is , in fact , fairly common to " upgrade " a white-paper , technical note , or other such non-peer-reviewed publication into a peer-reviewed publication . Two important caveats , however : The appropriate form for a peer-reviewed publication is generally very different than for a blog post or similar informal format . You will likely need to almost entirely rewrite the publication in any case . If the other material is durably available or has been circulated in academic circles previously , however , you should acknowledge this fact and reference the prior publications . This may be in the form of a citation , or in the cover letter of the article , or both .
I would cite the exact version you are referring to in your work . Therefore the year should be the year of that version . You should also <URL> . This is to minimise the effect of potential changes in the cited work on your paper . Moreover , your goal is to provide the reader with a precise pointer to the cited work so that they can easily find it .
There are several cases where PhDs do an MBA . Some of them are : Bored of research as a whole . Irritation with academia and poor scope in Industry . Want to earn money . For furthering responsibilities at the university where one is a professor . If you do some looking around , a high amount of Deans to have an MBA along with a PhD .
Well you can put your published articles on arxiv just for visibility purposes , but you will be having problems with the copyright of the journals and conferences in which your work is published . Essentially , the editors will not get too busy to track you down , but it is not ethical . There is one way to go around this problem , publish in arxiv the draft versions of your articles , the ones that are a little bit different from the published ones . In that case you would not have any kind of ethical issues ( you can also put them on your webpage , but always look to the copyright forms ) Good luck !
Emphasize strengths that mirror what would be expected for a 10-year Academic career : No peer-reviewed publications ? List instead all the internal white papers you 've written . Mention any academic collaborations when describing roles . ( No collaborations ? List internal cross-departmental collaborations . ) List trainees/interns you 've mentored . List any important talks/presentations you 've given related to your research . It wo n't be the same , as the level of discourse when talking to other researchers is different than when talking to senior managers , but it does demonstrate presentation experience . Get very strong letters of recommendation attesting to your strength as a researcher , communicator , and mentor .
end question
start question
How many recommendation letters should you ask a professor to write ?
Your goal should be to get the absolute best letters possible . Most likely , of the ten professors the candidate knows , there are two that will be ' better ' letter-writers than the others - in the sense that they know her better , have taught her in multiple classes ( more than the others ) that she has done well in , the candidate may have done some research/reading course with them , etc. . In general , these two should be asked to write a letter each that they would send to the different programs . If a student were to come to me and ask me to send letters to five different programs , I would not write five entirely different letters . The letters might have some minor differences if the programs have some significant differences ( applied vs theoretical program , or something like that ) , but they would be mostly identical . The only situation where you might ask a third person is if they are a better choice for a particular program , e.g. they might be an alum of that program , or might know someone there personally , might have had the candidate in courses that are particularly relevant for that particular program , etc. . In that case you would ask them to write a letter for that particular program in lieu of the default choices .
I slightly prefer attachments . The problem is that I 'm reluctant to reply to e-mails asking for more information , or even to show up on server logs following links , because it may be interpreted as a sign of interest . Like most faculty members ( at least in technical areas ) , I get enormous numbers of junk e-mails regarding PhD positions or summer research . The general pattern is that they are form letters sent to large numbers of people , almost all of whom ignore the letters . If anyone replies in anything but the most discouraging way , then it inspires a potentially lengthy e-mail exchange that will probably just waste everyone 's time . This is a real problem , and I do n't know what to do about it . It 's not really fair , but right now the burden is on applicants to stand out from the junk e-mails . In particular , your e-mail should provide compelling proof that you spent at least as long thinking about it and writing it as you expect the faculty member to spend on it . If it looks like it could be a form letter with the professor 's name and research topic pasted in , then I 'll ignore it , as will many other people . [ I should point out that I work in a department with centralized admissions , so I can not accept students on my own . This is explained on my web page and the department 's . ] For example , a clearly personalized e-mail that discusses the professor 's research in detail is good . Keep in mind that plenty of people are trying to cheat with this . For example , I regularly receive e-mails saying something like " I found your paper X fascinating when we read it in our seminar " , with no further details . This looks like a form letter , and there have been a couple of times when I 've received e-mails from the same sender that were identical except for having different paper titles pasted in , with no indication that they had previously e-mailed me about another paper . Maybe a few e-mails are genuine , but they sure look like lies . So when I get an e-mail regarding PhD admissions or summer research , I 'm very skeptical that it 's more than spam . There 's a five or ten second window to convince me that it 's different from the other e-mails , before I set it aside . If it looks promising , then I 'll read further , and I 'm a little more likely to do so if any information I need is available right there . So I 'd recommend attaching whatever is needed .
Here is what I think about the topic . Acknowledgements section is indeed an important part of any dissertation , obviously , not from a scientific standpoint , but from an ethical perspective . Even if you have a good memory , I would still suggest to keep track of various contributions that other people made to your research and your overall success during the program . If you do n't want to keep track throughout your program , it is IMHO crucial to make such list before finalizing and submitting your final document to the committee . On the other hand , if your memory is not that great , then keeping track of people 's help during the program is a must . As I also was trying to create a nice acknowledgements section for my dissertation , I have seen and read a wide variety of examples , ranging from quite brief and formal to very personal , which read more like a life story ( while some are interesting , generally , I do n't think you need to strive to make that section so - it should be sincere , cover most of people , which help you appreciate , and nicely written in terms of wording ; however , it is not a novel or , even , a story , so I would n't at all worry about the being interesting aspect ) . I think that both extremes ( too brief/dry &amp; life story ) are not appropriate or good , so I would recommend to write several drafts to create a writeup , nicely balanced in terms of content , people coverage , style and size . Since I mentioned above the size aspect , keep in mind that some universities limit the size of an acknowledgements section ( usually , such limits are spelled out in a Dissertation Guide ) . For example , at my school , that limit was one page . Needless to say that it was quite a challenge to squeeze maximum relevant information and keep the contents/style readable and balanced .
According to <URL> , they received 10,952 submissions last year , which works out to an average of almost exactly 30 papers per calendar day . Given that there are <URL> according to their editorial masthead , it would appear that the average editor gets about 8 papers per week , or one or two per day . However , their caseload is probably much bigger , since they also have to deal with all of their other " open " papers as well -- so an editor might have something like 60-100 active papers to deal with at any one time ( ballpark estimate , assuming a two - to three-month life cycle -- although I suspect it 's actually much longer than that if multiple rounds of reviews are required ) .
While it 's possible that a postdoc letter ( in the absence of further context ) might carry less weight , there are good reasons to ask them anyway : the letter is a testimonial about your ability to do research . A postdoc who 's worked with you is in a much better position to say something nontrivial about this . Lines like " I closely worked with so and so " carry weight . the postdoc might know faculty at the university you 're applying to . In that case the letter carries even more weight ( I 'm likely to pay more attention to letters from people that I know )
While I do n't really like adding answers to questions that have too many already , I also think it 's a little hard to cut through the arguing any other way . It 's not rude to ask for a letter of recommendation . Ever . ( I mean , if you do it rudely , then yes , but the bare fact of asking is n't ) . It might be unlikely to succeed , or unrealistic in some cases , but it 's not rude . You should try to ascertain whether this is a normal thing to do in your field . In my field ( mathematics ) , it borders on inconceivable that an undergrad would carry out and publish truly impressive work without an established researcher in the field supervising them and able to write a detailed letter about it . Maybe there are some other fields where that can be the case , though I ca n't say I know what they would be ( perhaps some of the other answerers are ) . Similarly , JeffE 's advice to try to create a dossier of the level that might be appropriate for a faculty position sounds completely preposterous to me , but I suppose it must not be in computer science . Whenever you ask someone for a letter of recommendation , think about what you are hoping the person will say , and whether they are placed well to say it . So , I would only consider asking for a person to write a letter based purely on having read my research if I knew they were familiar with it , and could place it in a context that is not obvious to the people reading the letter . It can be very valuable to have a letter saying essentially " this paper is actually really important . here is why . " I 've read such letters , I 've written such letters . But the paper has to be really important ( in the view of the author ) for such a letter to work . I suspect a lot of the argument here is based around whether the answerer really thinks this is an impressive publication or not ( which we are all guessing about ) . So , if I were you , I would ask some of your professors whether they really think this potential letter writer will be impressed by the publication . If they think maybe yes , then you can email her/him , and say : Dear Prof. X , I 'm a student at the University of Y and am applying to graduate schools in country Z ( or maybe be more specific ) in underwater basket weaving , with a focus on the use of hemp . Prof. W thought you might be interested in this publication of mine , since it relates to your work on macramae at the bottom of the Mariana Trench . I was wondering if you thought you could write a strong recommendation for me on the basis of this publication . Thank you very much for your time . Sincerely , Joe Schmoe Asking someone if they think they are able to write a strong letter for you is good way of leaving them an easy out , and not getting a terrible letter since someone finds it easier to write a terrible letter than to say no ( it happens ) . I would almost certainly reject such a request since I really would n't feel like I could write a strong letter . But if the publication really is that good , maybe someone will feel like they can .
First , I would recommend reading some of the requirements from schools you intend on applying to . Most schools have very similar requirements , but it may be worth looking at the schools that you are most interested in attending before you get started ( page requirements , etc. can deviate from school to school ) . Since you are applying to PhD programs you will want to be addressing the questions of " What makes you an individual well suited to research in computer science ? " and " Why should institution X accept you ? " -- this will involve talking about your past achievements , what made you want to pursue a PhD in computer science , what type of research you want to do , etc. . As far as definitive strategy goes , there are numerous routes you can go ( I will leave a couple of links at the end of this post ) . One that I would recommend is to write the majority of the statement such that it can be sent to any institution ( i.e. , is not institution specific ) . Set it up ( as far as continuity goes ) so that your last paragraph is why you want to attend institution X . This way you will only need to re-write the last paragraph for each application you send out . Here are some helpful links I found : <URL> <URL> <URL> Hope that helps !
You can choose either of the options , but I would wait at least till I 've had quite a few accomplishment . However , some professors take a long time to write , so it would be good to approach them at least a few months before you start applying . Letter of recommendation can be collected and filed till the time you need them .
I agree with blackace that you should probably be OK , but let me sketch what some of the drawbacks are : Ideally , an application to math grad school will have recommendations from mathematicians . The further you get away from that , the less meaningful the letters are . ( For example , at least once per year I see a letter from an English professor , which is utterly unhelpful . ) The basic issue is that you need recommenders who really understand what it takes to succeed in math grad school and as a mathematician . Fortunately , physics is close enough that physicists can do a pretty good job of judging this , so you should be OK . In my experience , the admissions committee will worry about two things : One is that physicists may not appreciate certain math-specific issues . For example , the expected coursework and background . A physicist may not fully understand the extent to which someone 's background is nonstandard or deficient for the math program they are applying to . A second reason is the belief that most people 's standards go down a little when making recommendations for other fields . If someone is applying to the top schools in your field , you know very well what the standards and competition are like , and you have something invested in the system and your own reputation as a recommender . In practice , recommenders from other fields seem to be a little more cavalier about making strong recommendations based on a feeling that the applicant is smart , rather than a comparison with the rest of the applicant pool . This means recommendations with be taken with a grain of salt . So if you have equally good prospects for letters writers from math and physics , you should choose the mathematicians for math applications . On the other hand , a physicist who knows you is still a good choice , much better than a mathematician who does n't know you . ( But a mathematician who does n't know you is a better choice than an English professor who does . )
" All other things being equal , " you 'd rather have more references from graduate than undergraduate professors . Your situation is such that " all other things are n't equal . " Apparently , you did n't get to know any of your masters professors well , and only took one course from each . Whereas you had undergraduate professors that you took two to three courses from , and they know you better , and may be in a better position to assess your research potential . Taking the inference a step further , you may have done your most interesting/significant research as an undergraduate , while your master 's work " topped up " your academic knowledge . If that 's the case , you probably ought to " go with what you 've got , " and get more referrals from the ( undergraduate ) professors that you did more work for , or at least got to know better . I would rather have " glowing " recommendations from undergraduate professors than " lukewarm " recommendations from graduate professors . If all else fails , try to take a second course with one of your graduate professors so the s/he can get to know you better , and give you a recommendation .
I do n't understand most of the current answers , which mostly assume you want technical advice without paying for it , but requiring an NDA . If this is indeed what you want , I agree it 's a bad idea . However . You write that this professor has already gone into business . This implies that he has a certain basic understanding of how business works . He probably has signed his fair share of NDAs , as well as requiring others to sign his . It appears perfectly reasonable for you ( or your friend ) to set up a short meeting with this professor , say of 30 minutes or so . Quickly present your idea in a rather general manner , in an " elevator pitch " - at least outlining what problem you want to solve . Think beforehand how much you are comfortable revealing . Tell him that you 'd like his advice , and be frank that you are not comfortable giving full details without protection for your intellectual property . ( I 'd also look for protection if I knew this professor , not only if he were unknown . ) Have a proposal ready for possible next steps , which would include him signing an NDA and his investing a little time for a discussion . Ask him explicitly what he 'd expect from you in return for investing his time . Professors are busy people , and more so if they run a company on the side . You may actually have a good chance that he 'd be happy to mentor you to a limited extent pro bono - most academics are idealists at heart , otherwise they would be in industry from the very beginning . However , if you want more in-depth advice , be prepared to offer hourly rates , possibly conditional on your idea getting off the ground . Always keep in mind that professors are busy , just as are other businesspeople . Do n't come with a mindset that you are entitled to advice , but ask politely , and things may go well . If this professor is active in a similar line of business as you are , this may be a very good opportunity - he may have contacts in the industry and/or to funders that may very well be invaluable .
There are sometimes " remark " blocks that some authors use for discussing aspects that are of substantial interest to some readers but do not strictly belong to the core of the story that you are telling . If you are preparing your document with LaTeX , then such text blocks are called " environments " . An example is given in the Springer Lecture Notes in Computer Science <URL> , page 4 at the bottom .
A post-doctoral position is not usually part of a " program . " It is not like graduate school , leading some kind of higher certification . It is a job , doing research in a specific area . Hiring is done individually by the senior researcher overseeing a position , and what they may be looking for is highly variable . Some people may hire based primarily on people 's publication output as graduate students ; however , in most cases I am familiar with , hiring is done based on a holistic view of the candidate . For example , when I applied for a post-doc in theoretical particle physics , I had only one publication out ( and another one submitted ) , based on my graduate work . However , I came from a top graduate program , and I had a very strong letter from my advisor . I had to apply for a lot of jobs , but the one I eventually got was with somebody who had research interests very close to my advisor 's . ( The two had collaborated once , briefly , some years in the past . ) I had a very broad background ( having taken a lot more classes than most graduate students at my institution ) , and based on this and my advisors strong recommendation , I got a job . One of my professors in graduate school had told me explicitly that it was much more important to learn a lot in graduate school than to publish a lot of papers . You are not going to get the opportunity again to broaden your base of knowledge in the same way , and how many papers you publish is probably less important than learning and networking and making a good impression on senior people . Once you have a post-doc , that is the time to really crank up your research output ( to four or five papers a year in theoretical physics or applied mathematics , if you want to get a good faculty job ) .
As Student B , I would be pretty mad about this , even more than if he had declined to write me a letter in the first place . But I would also recognize that it was for the best ( if he had n't done this , he would have written me a bad letter ) . Also , I would never have gone to the department head about this because It 's not something that merits a formal complaint It 's not something I 'd want to be known for , especially among other professors who may be writing my letters of recommendation .
Academic rank varies by country . But I would expect in most places a letter written by a postdoc would be considered . Selecting letter writers is often a compromise between getting a letter writer who is highly ranked and well known and getting a letter writer who is well informed . Typically one gets both when a postdoc assists a senior faculty member in writing a letter .
First , here is an answer to " What do letter writers tend to do when writing about men or women candidates ? " One difference I have seen mentioned in the literature but have not seen mentioned in the other answers : use of standout adjectives , words like " superb , " " outstanding , " and " excellent . " Specifically , in letters for 62 female and 222 male applicants to a medical faculty at a large American medical school in the mid-1990s : We developed a list of ' standout adjectives ' , namely ' excellent ' , ' superb ' , ' outstanding ' , ' unique ' , ' exceptional ' , and ' unparalleled ' . In tabulating the percentages of letters for female applicants and male applicants that included these terms , we found them to be similar ( 63 % for women and 58 % for men ) . And yet the letters for men read differently . Our gut reaction after reading many of these letters was that the men had been praised more highly with these terms than had the women . Thus we were led to consider frequency . That is , instead of coding mere occurrence of at least one of these terms in a letter , we coded for multiple occurrences . Here we found that the letters for women that had at least one of these terms had an average of 1.5 terms , whereas the letters for men that included at least one had an average of 2.0 such terms . That is , there was repetition of standout adjectives within men 's letters to a greater extent . Trix , F. , &amp; Psenka , C. ( 2003 ) . <URL> . Discourse &amp; Society , 14 ( 2 ) , 191-220 . And in letters written for 235 male and 42 female applicants for either a chemistry or biochemistry faculty position at a large U.S. research university : In line with Hypothesis 5 , results revealed a significant gender difference in how many standout adjectives ( e.g. outstanding , unique , and exceptional ) the recommender used to describe the candidate , F ( 1 , 278 ) = 3.95 , p = .05 . Consistent with the notion that implicit biases can influence how letter writers describe female candidates , recommenders described male candidates ( M = .70 ) with significantly more standout adjectives compared to female candidates ( M = .60 ) . To address the possibility that this difference could be accounted for by differences in the qualifications of male and female candidates , we conducted an ANCOVA that included number of publications , presentations , fellowships , postdoctoral positions , and number letters of recommendation as covariates . Even after removing variance in standout language due to any and all of these variables , the gender difference remained significant , p = .04 . There were no differences between departments in how many standout adjectives candidates ' letters included . The " standout words " from the latter study were : excellen * , superb , outstanding , unique , exceptional , unparalleled , * est , most , wonderful , terrific * , fabulous , magnificent , remarkable , extraordinar * , amazing , supreme * , unmatched Schmader , T. , Whitehead , J. , &amp; Wysocki , V. H. ( 2007 ) . <URL> . Sex Roles , 57 ( 7-8 ) , 509-514 . The latter study also found , however , that " results revealed more similarities than differences in letters written for male and female candidates . " A third study did not find a significant difference in use of standout adjectives by gender of the applicant . In a review of 763 letters for applicants to an otolaryngology/head and neck surgery ( OHNS ) residency program at Stanford University : The length of the letters was similar , as were the mean number of " standout " terms . However , this study did address your other question , " What do men and women tend to do differently when writing letters ? " : All 763 letters " recommended " the applicant for OHNS residency . Ninety-one percent of letters were written by men , 68.4 % by male otolaryngologists ( OTOs ) , 4.2 % by female OTOs , and 33 % by OHNS department chairs or division chiefs ( 100 % men ) . A comparison of female and male letter writers revealed five categories with significant differences : female letter writers were more likely to call an applicant a " team player " ( P = .000 ) , " compassionate , " ( P = .001 ) and use strings of adjectives ( P = .024 ) . In contrast , they were less likely when compared with male letter writers , to mention an applicant 's personal life ( P = .003 ) , or write " letters of minimal assurance " ( P = .035 ) . In more detail : Male letter writers were more likely ( 28 % of letters compared with 10 % of letters by female letter writers ) to comment on the candidate 's personal life , sometimes discussing the candidate 's family history ( e.g. , immigration from another country ) , major accomplishments ( e.g. , biking across the United States ) , or hobbies ( e.g. , fly fishing ) . Female letter writers tended to discuss the applicant in terms of his or her professional accomplishments only . They were also more likely to mention that the applicant was a " team player " and " compassionate . " Women were more likely to use a string of adjectives to describe the applicant . Some researchers assert that the use of stringing terms is used to substitu
Yes , you can , and you should . It is not impolite ( unless you actually have access ) , and it is not unethical . I do n't think it is illegal , if you do not distribute it further , and it is certainly not uncommon . First , make sure you really do n't have access ( otherwise , you risk looking a bit like a fool ) , then ask him . Do n't make a big deal of it , just explain that you lack access and you believe he may have them , if so could he please send them .
Good question . Here are my thoughts . If you can have both , then you should . If you can only have one or the other , then I would weight it up like this . If both are going to say good things about you , then pick the one higher in status . If one is going to say much better things about you than the other , then pick that person . If you think that can get a somewhat better recommendation from the assistant professor than from the head of the department , then that is a bit of a quandary . As status of a student 's referee and their level of supportiveness both affect acceptance decisions to uncertain degrees , you will probably just have to make a call based on your own intuition .
I think the most important is : Are you happy with your PhD in general ? It covers a lot of issues , but usually you do n't want to do a PhD in a place where students are unhappy and frustrated . The good thing is that if students feel really bad , they rarely hide it . The next things are related to : General contacts on the line student-advisor ( How much contact and support can you expect , both for research and administrative stuff ? ) . Funding ( Is it a problem or a non-issue , e.g. for attending a conference ? ) . Research ( What the actual research looks like ? What is the toughest part , biggest emphasis on , the most time-consuming part , etc ? ) How much time does it typically take to finish PhD ? Does it happen often that someone drops out ? Other questions will depend of things you consider important . You may expect a lot of autonomy , or a lot of guidance . You may expect a very ambitious programme , or a PhD-life balance . You may like to teach , or you may like to keep it at minimum . You may be eager to travel a lot , or prefer to stay mostly in one place . You may be more into a particular branch of science or methodology , or into another ...
It depends on the professor . If it 's someone who knows you well and has the time , then they would probably be happy to help . Most of the professors I came across during my undergrad were more than happy to help preparing me for grad school interviews . Just make sure you ask well in advance , so they have time find an appropriate time , and do n't take it personally if they say no : professors are really busy . EDIT : Make sure you ask professors that have been through the graduate application process in the same country you are applying , if possible . Ones who received their PhD elsewhere , or say 50 years ago , will probably turn you down simply because they do n't feel familiar enough with the process ( unless they are directly involved in admissions for your school 's graduate program ) .
end question
start question
Should a conference paper in a journal be considered a journal article ?
To the best of my understanding , the key reason why some conferences publish their proceedings as journal special issues is precisely to enable the papers to be listed as journal papers rather than conference papers . This is essentially a kludge to get around bureaucrats and people from fields with an " only journals count " prejudice . As such , I think that it 's entirely reasonable to list such papers in either the conference section or the journal section . The " technically-a-journal " form , however , typically has different citation information than the conference publication , so if you choose to list them in the journal section , be certain to list them with this alternate citation information , as reported by the journal archive site .
To answer the ( <URL> of the ) question in the title : Are scientific articles of public domain ? the answer is absolutely not , unless the relevant copyright holders declared it so or that its copyright has expired . Note that public domain is emphatically different from open access . To answer the question in the body : Is it legal for the university/organization to host a copy of an article , if this has been published on a conference or journal with paid access ? Does it matter if the authors of the article belong to that university/organization ? the answer is it depends . What does it depend on ? Very simply , the publication agreement or the copyright transfer agreement or the licensing agreement signed by the author when the article has been accepted for publishing . For example : Here 's <URL> Here 's <URL> <URL> for their journals . As David Ketcheson points out below , a great resource for checking the self-archiving and open access policies of is <URL> .
As a general rule , you can not publish anything as original research that has already been published . ( You may be able to reprint it in other venues , but most research journals do not do this . ) Of course , the trick is what counts as " already published " . Nowadays , many publishers ( including all mathematics publishers , for example ) do not count informal distribution on the internet as prior publication . It 's common not to count extended abstracts from conference proceedings , although the journal may require some revisions or extensions . Nobody counts submitting a dissertation as prior publication , even if the university makes it available for download or purchase , and technical reports are generally in the same category . On the other hand , publication as a " real book " definitely counts as prior publication and would rule out journals . Of course , this just brings up the question of what a " real book " is . Basically , if it 's published by a serious academic publisher , with some nontrivial selection and editorial advice , then that counts as publication . On the other hand , if it 's some random publisher printing copies of Ph.D. theses and selling them online , then you could make a strong case that it 's not really published ( and that this is not so different from ordering a dissertation copy ) . However , I think you need to discuss this explicitly when submitting your paper . For example , you could add a sentence to your submission letter along the lines of " This work is based on my thesis from University X , which is available for sale by Y but has not been traditionally published " . It 's much better to deal with this upfront than to have someone later ask " Wait , why is someone selling copies of this work online ? "
From <URL> : Trade journals are geared towards professionals in a discipline . They report news and trends in a field , but not original research . They may provide product or service reviews , job listings , and advertisements . Scholarly journals provide articles of interest to experts or researchers in a discipline . An editorial board of respected scholars ( peers ) reviews all articles submitted to a journal . They decide if the article provides a noteworthy contribution to the field and should be published . There are typically little or no advertisements . Articles published in scholarly journals will include a list of references .
According to <URL> : The conference proceedings are to be published in the Springer 's LNAI ( indexed by DBLP , EI , Scopus , and Thomson ISI ) . In other words , your conference paper is already published . The journal paper will therefore be a new publication , and as such , you could use a different title , to avoid any confusion ( and it will be a different paper , since you have to expand it ) . EDIT However , there are precedents , for at least one previous edition of the conference you 're mentioning , of authors having the same title in the conference and in a journal edition ( taken from DBLP ) : Peerasak Intarapaiboon , Ekawit Nantajeewarawat , Thanaruk Theeramunkong : Extracting Chemical Reactions from Thai Text for Semantics-Based Information Retrieval . IEICE Transactions 94-D ( 3 ) : 479-486 ( 2011 ) Peerasak Intarapaiboon , Ekawit Nantajeewarawat , Thanaruk Theeramunkong : Extracting Chemical Reactions from Thai Text for Semantics-Based Information Retrieval . ACIIDS ( 1 ) 2010 : 271-281 Yongli Wang , Dongxiao Niu , Ling Ji : Power load forecasting using data mining and knowledge discovery technology . IJIIDS 5 ( 5 ) : 452-467 ( 2011 ) Yongli Wang , Dongxiao Niu , Yakun Wang : Power Load Forecasting Using Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery Technology . ACIIDS ( 1 ) 2010 : 319-328 Moamin Ahmed , Mohd Sharifuddin Ahmad , Mohd Zaliman M. Yusoff : A Collaborative Framework for Multiagent Systems . IJATS 3 ( 4 ) : 1-18 ( 2011 ) Moamin Ahmed , Mohd Sharifuddin Ahmad , Mohd Zaliman M. Yusoff : A Collaborative Framework for Multiagent Systems . ACIIDS ( 1 ) 2010 : 329-338 Looking at random references from the journals in question , it seems quite frequent to have the same name for a journal paper and a conference publication the previous year . In other words , I stand corrected , and you might want to keep the same name for the journal version . As pointed out by DavidRicherby and Mangara , it 's likely to be field dependent . Hence , the best approach is probably to look at previous editions of the journals in question , and check if there are matching conference papers .
So far as I know , your understanding of the typical use of " embargo " for journals is correct : it is when a journal wants to be the " first to press " with its article , and so places a gag order on the authors and their institutions so that they do n't go talking to the press first . There is another place where journals also often want to be " first to press , " however , and I suspect that this is what " embargo " refers to in this case . It is often the case that a journal makes its content available through multiple routes : immediately through the publisher for a premium , and with time-lag through larger accumulations , such as PubMed or ScienceDirect . Thus , I think that what is probably going on here is that your institution does not judge this journal important enough to subscribe to directly , but gets it as part of a time-lagged " package deal . " You should check with your librarian how long the time-lag is , and then decide whether it 's worth waiting or if you want to ask a colleague to help you get around the paywall ...
The most important thing you need to do is figure out the copyright status . If you have given them exclusive rights to reproduce the work , then you may not be able to publish it anywhere else . It is likely that the copyright transfer was part of a publication contract where the publisher has agreed to publish your work in exchange for the copyright transfer . Hopefully , the publisher will given up the rights you transferred to them . If they wo n't , you may need to get a lawyer to explore your options . Having listed the paper in a scholarship application is problematic . Paper-based journals and journals that generate DOIs create a permanent record of the published papers . In your case , it seems a published paper has simply disappeared . I would write to the places you have submitted an application and explain the situation . something along the lines of The paper XXX , which I listed on my application , was published by YYY . Unfortunately , YYY is a known predatory publisher and has since made the paper unavailable . I still stand behind the research ; attached is a copy of that work . I am currently working towards resubmitting the manuscript to a reputable publisher . I am sorry for any problems this causes .
Papers published in ( reputable ) journals are reviewed by other scientists ( peer review ) , which usually makes it considerably more difficult to publish a paper there . By contrast papers on the ArXiv only receive a brief inspection to keep out utter crap . Thus , most academic evaluations consider only peer-reviewed publications or value them considerably higher . Moreover , often only peer-reviewed papers are considered citable , in particular for purposes of backing up your claims . This may extend to papers that are considered certain to be eventually peer-reviewed  , but this is unlikely to apply to your paper . As being cited ( by peer-reviewed papers ) is another important academic evaluation metric , this is another advantageous aspect of journal publications . As a sidenote : There are a lot of physics journals where you can publish without a fee .  in particular in fast-moving fields or fields with long peer review such as parts of mathematics
The answer to your question depends entirely on the license of the " small external program ( not yours ) " . Where did it come from ? Find its source and read the terms of the license . If it 's an <URL> or a <URL> , usually you are permitted to redistribute it so long as you preserve attribution and license terms in the code header . If it 's a different type of license , then it will depend entirely on the content of the license , which acts like a contract between the author and yourself . UPDATE w / JOURNAL SPECIFIC DETAILS : The Journal of Computers &amp; Geosciences is published by Elsevier who has an <URL> for authors . If the paper in question was published as open access , and its chosen license was , then that gives you permission to reuse the work ( including the attached source-code ) so long as you provide attribution . If the article in question was n't published as open access , then you 'll have to contact the authors or locate another source for the code that has clear licensing terms .
A common approach is to have separate sections in your CV listing academics works by type . I.e. , thesis , peer reviewed journal articles , peer reviewed full text conference proceedings , book chapters , books , conference presentations , etc. . Particularly for early career researchers , it is common to also include journal articles that are under review . These should be presented in a section distinct from published journal articles and should generally indicate what stage of review they are in ( e.g. , submitted , revise and resubmit , etc. ) . It is also often useful to make each section a numbered list , so readers can quickly ascertain how many works you have of each type . Using this approach you would list the journal article under the journal article section of your CV ( or in the " submitted journal articles " section as the case may be ) and list the conference presentation under the conference presentation section of your CV . Typical readers of an academic CV will know how to interpret this . In general ( and this may vary by discipline ) , journal articles ( and other full-text works ) speak to your lasting academic contribution . In contrast , conference presentations show that you are actively presenting your work . Typically , people evaluating your CV ( e.g. , for a job , promotion , grant , etc. ) would give different weight to different sections . Thus , organising your academic output by sections makes their job easier .
Ca n't you look at author biographies from other papers in that journal ?
If the work is extending the original , then all of the original authors should be retained . New authors can certainly be added , however , if they have contributed to the extension .
Based on our work with them , it seems to be a high quality publication . We published a JoVE article last year and several of the protocols we use in the lab are adapted from other JoVE articles . So it seems effective in its mission . The video format really works for certain protocols , and it may make it easier for people to reproduce your work ( thereby getting you more citations ) . That said , there is the price tag to consider , and the editorial process is extensive and time consuming ( you write an article , then go through normal peer review , then work with them to turn it into a screenplay , then get everyone together with the videographer they provide , etc. ) . So I would say that if your method does not specifically benefit from the video format , there is n't an advantage over a conventional methods journal . As far as how it 's received , I have n't noticed any differences from any other small journal .
No . To answer Paul 's comment : The title of the post asks about journals . For a well-worn list of criticisms of Impact Factor as an indicator of journal quality , see <URL> and the sources it cites . In many disciplines , important papers receive most of their citations <URL> . Raw citation data can be manipulated by editorial policies , some more <URL> than <URL> , or even by <URL> . Thomson-Reuters ' calculations of Impact Factor are <URL> , even using their own citation data . Et cetera ad nauseam . But most importantly : Having lots of citations is not the same thing as quality . The body of the post asks about journal articles . Impact Factor is ( roughly ) the average number of citations to all papers published by a journal in a given time window . Even if it were a reliable measure of average quality ( which it is n't ) , it would say nothing at all about the quality of any individual paper .
I think the technical answer is no . Rather it is a series of research monographs . Clearly there is a continuum here , and actually the SLN [ X ] series seems to have become more journal-like since the last time I checked . ( The SLNM webpage lists an inmpact factor , for instance . ) I think you can do no better than to consult the series homepages : <URL> . <URL> . <URL> . In CS the series seems to be organized into many subseries , however each volume gets a " global number " . However in all three cases you can check the language used and see that they talk about " monographs " , " titles " and " texts " , never " journals " . If my memory is accurate , librarians view them this way as well : sometimes journals can be checked out for a much shorter time than books , and in my experience the SLNM have always been treated like books . For the math series , from the linked page you can click to get a four page pdf file detailing the editorial policy for the productions of the LNM monographs . The following passage seems rather enlightening : Monograph manuscripts should be reasonably self-contained and rounded off . Thus they may , and often will , present not only results of the author but also related work by other people . They may be based on specialised lecture courses . Furthermore , the manuscripts should provide sufficient motivation , examples and applications . This clearly distinguishes Lecture Notes from journal articles or technical reports which normally are very concise . Articles intended for a journal but too long to be accepted by most journals , usually do not have this " lecture notes " character . For similar reasons it is unusual for doctoral theses to be accepted for the Lecture Notes series , though habilitation theses may be appropriate . I could not find the analogous file for either the SLNCS or SLNP . In terms of the specific question : Some universities require the PhD students to publish in journals in order to graduate , so I want to know . I am in Computer Science field . This is a question about academic culture , both general CS culture and the culture of your specific department and university . You certainly need to ask people in your own local culture . As you can see above , in mathematics graduate students rarely publish in SLNM : PhD theses are generally not appropriate , and it is hard to see what other book-length partially expository high level research document it would be worth the time of a graduate student to write and publish . But it looks like CS does things a bit differently ...
The main point to consider is probably that of success . The relevant questions here are : Can you address the justified criticism ? Can you convince the editor or even the reviewers that the unjustified criticism is really unjustified ? Do you think that you can convince the editor to consult the opinion of yet another referee ? How much of the rejection is based on predominantly opinionated aspects , such as relevance and scope ( e.g. , " not enough physics " ) ? Apart from some exceptional cases ( e.g. , if you can actually add something to the manuscript that increases the relevance ) , such criticism is difficult to address . Are the reviews criticising the same or different aspects ? Some examples : You have three reports . All criticise a lack of relevance . They may or may not criticise other aspects . -- Resubmitting is very likely a waste of time . Lack of relevance is a killer argument and most of the time , swaying a referee means convincing them that they erred in their assessment , which even in academia few people are capable of admitting . And you probably have to sway at least two referees . Moreover you have to convince the editor that you properly addressed the issues , so there will even be another round of review . It 's unlikely that the editor will consult additional referees . You have two reports . The first one only criticises the lack of relevance but has no other major point of criticism . The second one finds the manuscript relevant but strongly criticises a technical aspect , which you can address . -- The second referee can probably be easily satisfied . Unless the first referee has overlooked something essential , it will be difficult to sway them . However , the referees are one-to-one on this matter and by addressing it , you may convince the editor . Another possibility is that the editor consults the opinion of a third referee . You have two reports . Both are negative but outrageously sloppy : For example , they criticise claims you never made , base their criticisms on misunderstandings they could not possibly have noticed as such or ask you to discuss alternative approaches which you did already discuss . -- You can easily address the criticism and possibly sway a referee that is more awake during the second round . If you make your case clear , you may also convince the editor to consult new referees . Another aspect to consider is that of time : If at least some referees will be used again in the second round of review , this round is usually going to be faster , as it reduces or eliminates the time spent on finding appropriate referees and waiting for referees that decline to review . Moreover a referee that is already familiar with a manuscript needs less time to review it . If you manage to convince the editor that some of the referees from the first round were not properly doing their job , this may lead to a speed-up of the next round . If a major hurdle is the editor accepting your rebuttal , you waste little time if you fail , as such a decision usually happens quite quickly . Depending on the constraints of alternative journals , submitting your manuscript there may require some rewriting work . Therefore , even if you consider a resubmission to be less likely to succeed than a submission to the next journal , it may result in the least average time to publication . Finally , you have to consider the number of journals that exist on the desired level and that are appropriate for your manuscript in terms of scope , length and possible other constraints . If there are only few such journals , you are more likely to exhaust your options and thus resubmitting is more likely to be worth the effort and time .
In the ( rare ) event of you requiring proof of your publication , you ought to still hold the email communications that connects to the Publisher as evidence ; especially the ' acceptance for publication ' and ' confirmation of publication ' letters . Your issue volume and number look like it 's a relatively new journal to which you 've submitted your paper . I sure hope that it is n't a predatory one .
You are generally allowed to publish even in a non-open access journal even if a pre-print is on the arXiv . Most journal copyright agreements explicitly allow the authors to post the article online . Here 's an example of a fairly generous one : The ASL hereby grants to the Author the non-exclusive right to reproduce the Article , to create derivative works based upon the Article , and to distribute and display the Article and any such derivative work by any means and in any media , provided the provisions of clause ( 3 ) below are met . The Author may sub-license any publisher or other third party to exercise those rights . and a less generous one which still allows the author to post a copy online : I understand that I retain or am hereby granted ( without the need to obtain further permission ) rights to use certain versions of the Article for certain scholarly purposes , as described and defined below ( " Retained Rights " ) , and that no rights in patents , trademarks or other intellectual property rights are transferred to the journal . The Retained Rights include the right to use the Pre-print or Accepted Authors Manuscript for Personal Use , Internal Institutional Use and for Scholarly Posting ; and the Published Journal Article for Personal Use and Internal Institutional Use . I 've seen examples where the journal actually did some genuine copyediting beyond what the referee did where the author was n't allowed to post the version that benefited from the copyediting , but could still post the earlier version . So , for most journals , the answer is that you 're allowed to post the article online because it 's specifically allowed by the document they ask you to sign . But it is possible that posting on the arxiv will rule out particular journals that have more restrictive policies .
There is no good reason to simply copy large portions of an existing publication to make a new . By rewriting everything , you have the opportunity to rephrase your thoughts and most likely produce a better paper , at least from a writing point of view . Some journals definietly look at plagiarism and in this case self-plagiarism and the only way to avoid it is to rewrite . I think the benefits of rewriting clearly outweighs the possible time-saving by just copy-pasting . Just to provide an example . I have written tens of papers about the same natural physical object that I have studied . In each paper , I have to provide a descritpion of the locality and characteristics and not once have this been copied . It is in fact interesting to see how many dofferent ways the same ( dull ) information can be conveyed . As for a percentage of new material , I really would advice against relying on a numbr . It is possible this is a silent understanding in some fields but in general , only new insights and conclusion should warrant a new publication . Another year of data or something similar to that is in itself not enough . The paper might be published but such publication strategies are not looked upon favourably in the long term . So , I strongly recomend rewriting each paper and not rely on copy-pasting . I am convinced you will develop as an author and also generate better papers by doing so . consider each paper a separate new entity .
Both ways are possible , but usually they are called differently . If the issue is replacing a regular issue , it is called special issue . If the issue is added to the standard set of issues , making an extra one , it is usually called supplement . And even here the conventions differ ; some supplements are published with a regular issue , and some are published separately . Most often , they are numbered as , or alike , but form an integral part of the volume .
end question
start question
Can I get a letter of recommendation from a professor who did n't teach me BUT I did research with ?
The point of a letter of recommendation is for the receiving party to obtain third-party verification that you are , indeed , awesome . Generally speaking , people like to receive letters from individuals who know you well professionally . In most cases , teachers can not write good letters , as they only know you as a face in the class , and never really got to know your work ethic , personality , and capabilities . A research advisor would be able to comment on all those things , and would be able to write a much stronger letter .
Yes I think It would be different if say , you took one or two of her classes . But it sounds like she advised you a great deal , and thus she should have some investment in your educational success . Especially if you have talked about graduate school before . What is important is you give her notice as soon as possible so she can find some time to do it : Having a newborn is no easy job . I would phrase it as follows : Dear X ( unless you call her professor , then Professor X , but my advisors I call by their first name ) How is your newborn ? I realize you are very busy with your maternity leave , but I was hoping you might have some time to write me a strong letter of recommendation for graduate school . As you might know I am interested in ZQR , and your mentorship over my senior thesis has been essential to my education . Thank you for your time , user I 'd also like to add that while I was applying to PhD programs , the professor who eventually became my advisor was on maternity leave while I was asking her questions about the lab . In confidence , she enjoyed my emails because having newborns , while a joy most of the time , often lacks the intellectual rigor that most people are accustomed to in their day to day conversations . My guess is she will be very happy to do this , and somewhat expects you to ask .
Not at all . You are not committed to doing your PhD with the same advisor . Even if you did want to work with the same advisor , he/she should encourage that you talk to others to hear out their ideas . I highly doubt your advisor would be offended to hear that you were interested in speaking to other professors about their research interests . After all , a PhD is a long road , and you need to be really happy with your advisor , and your work , to survive it . In fact , I think it looks positive , even to your advisor , knowing that you have multiple options . I once had a job interview where , upon disclosing that I was also interviewing at other places , that " they would be worried if I was n't " .
In-person requests are always the best route , because you can gauge willingness and eagerness to write the letters much more directly than via telephone or email . However , if you ca n't be there , because you 've moved away , then it is of course appropriate to ask for letters by email . Whether or not the professor will grant the request or not is of course a question . However , I would mention that you 've moved ( and where you currently are ) as part of your request , so that the professor knows why you 're not able to come in for a meeting if asked .
Recommendation letters are all about trust : why should the person reading the recommendation letter believe the person who is writing it , when they say that they should place trust in you ? Thus , all else being equal , a professor with better qualifications provides a stronger recommendation . Other considerations , however , can be more important , as it all boils down to the basic question of trust . For example : A little-known professor who knows you well and has worked together with you is a better recommender than a world-famous professor who can only say : " This student was one of 100 who got a good grade in my giant class this year . " A professor with a close colleague in the department where you are applying may be much more trusted in their recommendation than a world-famous professor who nobody in the department knows personally . Furthermore , you probably will have more than one letter writer , and diversity in your letter-writers can be a virtue : some more prominent , others more in depth , etc. . Thus , you really need to look at this as a whole package , and say : " What is the combination of people who will , as a collective , present the most favorable and trustworthy picture of me to the particular places where I am applying ? "
While I do n't really like adding answers to questions that have too many already , I also think it 's a little hard to cut through the arguing any other way . It 's not rude to ask for a letter of recommendation . Ever . ( I mean , if you do it rudely , then yes , but the bare fact of asking is n't ) . It might be unlikely to succeed , or unrealistic in some cases , but it 's not rude . You should try to ascertain whether this is a normal thing to do in your field . In my field ( mathematics ) , it borders on inconceivable that an undergrad would carry out and publish truly impressive work without an established researcher in the field supervising them and able to write a detailed letter about it . Maybe there are some other fields where that can be the case , though I ca n't say I know what they would be ( perhaps some of the other answerers are ) . Similarly , JeffE 's advice to try to create a dossier of the level that might be appropriate for a faculty position sounds completely preposterous to me , but I suppose it must not be in computer science . Whenever you ask someone for a letter of recommendation , think about what you are hoping the person will say , and whether they are placed well to say it . So , I would only consider asking for a person to write a letter based purely on having read my research if I knew they were familiar with it , and could place it in a context that is not obvious to the people reading the letter . It can be very valuable to have a letter saying essentially " this paper is actually really important . here is why . " I 've read such letters , I 've written such letters . But the paper has to be really important ( in the view of the author ) for such a letter to work . I suspect a lot of the argument here is based around whether the answerer really thinks this is an impressive publication or not ( which we are all guessing about ) . So , if I were you , I would ask some of your professors whether they really think this potential letter writer will be impressed by the publication . If they think maybe yes , then you can email her/him , and say : Dear Prof. X , I 'm a student at the University of Y and am applying to graduate schools in country Z ( or maybe be more specific ) in underwater basket weaving , with a focus on the use of hemp . Prof. W thought you might be interested in this publication of mine , since it relates to your work on macramae at the bottom of the Mariana Trench . I was wondering if you thought you could write a strong recommendation for me on the basis of this publication . Thank you very much for your time . Sincerely , Joe Schmoe Asking someone if they think they are able to write a strong letter for you is good way of leaving them an easy out , and not getting a terrible letter since someone finds it easier to write a terrible letter than to say no ( it happens ) . I would almost certainly reject such a request since I really would n't feel like I could write a strong letter . But if the publication really is that good , maybe someone will feel like they can .
The answers to these questions are very dependent on the field of study . My perspective is mostly from economics and some statistics , so things might be different in other fields . From an unknown school , it will be very difficult , but not impossible , to get into a really top program . Top programs tend to be risk-adverse , and you 're facing pretty stiff competition in the applicant pool . The biggest issue is that they are going to have a difficult time evaluating the difficulty of your coursework . Assuming you get that far , you 're often going to be compared to a second-tier candidate from a top university . They know exactly how to evaluate the latter 's grades and can even compare him/her to past students from that school . You will be much more of an unknown , which is not a good thing . To make up for this , you 're going to need exemplary letters . But that 's the second issue , your access to great recommenders is more limited than someone at a top program . Letters of recommendation are often put in context by comparing them to previous letters from the same person , and here you might run into the same issue as evaluating your grades . Personal and professional relationships can also come into play , and your recommenders are less likely to be well-known in the field . Letters from people who are n't active researchers are much less valuable as well , and depending on the college you might not even have good access to active researchers . At minimum , you 'll need near-perfect grades in the most difficult courses offered . This probably means being one of the " superstar " students at your school , easily the best in your class . You 'll also need fantastic letters from the top researchers that you have access to , and , for econ at least , significant research experience . For your second question , general work experience is worth almost nothing in economics . All that matters is research experience . If the work you 're doing is n't contributing to something that will eventually be published in a peer-reviewed journal , then it 's extremely unlikely that it will be helpful . I should also mention an option that is often available in economics , though I do n't know if other fields have analogues . And that is to take a job as a research assistant for a professor or research group . These are often 2-3 year jobs that offer a chance to do real research with just a BA . Ideally , you could apply to graduate schools in two years with a coauthored paper on the way and a fantastic letter of rec from an active researcher . Classic examples in econ are working for the <URL> or for a professor 's research group ( <URL> ) .
No , it is not a good idea to ask your friend to write a letter for you . Recommendation letters for graduate admissions should be written by people experienced within the field , who know you well enough to form a clear opinion of your preparation and potential for graduate work in your chosen field . In almost all cases , they should be faculty members with whom you have worked closely , or at a minimum , taken classes with . Having your friend write the letter would be useless : He is working in a different field and would not know what skills are needed in your field . He presumably has little or no experience of research of his own , so will not have as good a sense of the attributes that are needed for success in research in his own field , much less yours . He is your personal friend and there would be doubts about his objectivity . ( Ethically , if he were to write a letter for you , he should disclose that relationship . ) The fact that he is currently attending the same institution where you want to apply is irrelevant . That does n't give his opinion any extra weight . Beyond being useless , submitting a letter from your friend would lead an admissions committee to think one of two things : You can not find two faculty members who have a good opinion of your abilities , so you asked your friend instead . This would suggest that your preparation is extremely poor and your application should be rejected . You are completely confused about how the application process works and did not understand that a letter from your friend would not be helpful . You have not done your research and probably do n't really know what grad school would be like or why you want to go . They are not likely to accept such an application , either .
I would not mention this no , this should not have any consequence to the students application , it may be a little out of place . It would be worth advising the student to inform any future places of study about his handwriting he may be able to get some alternate support with regard to exams . I would not see this student as a liability , just maybe needing a little extra support in this area , it is fair for an examiner to not spend ages marking one students paper due to bad handwriting , so long as they give it a fair go and a good effort .
Yes you can . The " Assistant Professor " still teaches . The word Assistant is there to denote the rank within the academic system . Some have taught longer and are more accomplished and are rewarded accordingly . Actually , calling the person " Assistant Professor Jones " would be very awkward and cumbersome . It should be avoided .
Enthusiasm : Students in a lab should get the feeling that the professor is someone who shows as much interest and puts in as much hard work in the project as themselves . The professor may have a lot of credentials and experience , but his enthusiasm level must be the same as that of his students . Emotional management : Sometime there could be students who lose their focus on research ; at others , there could be slight rifts and differences in opinion between the professor and student because of their approach to the problem . There may also be problems within the students which could be distasteful . The professor must be mindful of these , try his best to ameliorate the situation and not let things go out of hand . Without getting smarmily personal , the professor must manage his lab as though it were his second family . Ensuring good placement : Placement is not an indicator of research , but in reality , people use this record to gauge a lab 's quality . The professor must build contacts and be willing to counsel and recommend their students to good places ( each according to his ability , etc ) . Good Results : The most important point . If students must feel a " sense of achievement from simply being part of the lab " , then the output from the lab should be sensational . This involves a lot of man-management ; knowing what each student is good at and how to get the best out of each one of them . Finally , though it may sound cliched , hard work is the key to good results .
Pick someone else if it is n't already too late . The actual answer to your question is this : It is far better to have a good letter from a faculty member who is relatively unknown than a bad letter from someone they recognize and respect . In fact , the latter is probably the worst thing that could happen . If it is already too late , i.e. you have asked Professor X , he 's agreed , and you 've sent him the material ( which is probably an online link these days ) then work hard to make writing the letter easy . Put together the following information and send it fast : Include your student number . Remind him which of his classes you have taken , and when . How did you distinguish yourself in those classes ? How would you describe yourself ? What are your strengths ? What are your weaknesses ? He is going to have to answer those questions when he writes your reference , so the more details the better ; but these must be things your referee knows himself . What are some of your academic and nonacademic accomplishments that he may not remember ? What makes him particularly qualified to write a letter for you ? That is , why should the recipient of the letter value it over a letter from someone else ? This goes in an email that says , " Thank you very much for agreeing to write a reference for me on very short notice . I hope the following will be of use to you when you write it . "
Taking your statements at face value ( and thus imagining something like the others having designed X and evaluated X in a study , while you implemented X based upon their designs ) , this sounds like a typical situation where you should be mentioned for having conducted the implementation/practical construction . This should certainly happen in a presentation of the work , and possibly ( if the paper has an Acknowledgments section and if space allows for it ) also in the written text . Admittedly , this is at the verge participating in the design / idea of the research at hand ( and maybe you even did contribute some detail decisions without realizing ) , so including you as an author depends a bit on the concrete circumstances - and also on the main authors ' personal preference ( but then , so might accusations of gift authorship in this case ) . As for how to bring this up with the authors , you could ask in a somewhat unspecific way such as " I 'm interested in gradually increasing my level of participation in research papers , is there a chance for increasing my contributions and acting as a co-author in the future ? " That way , chances are the main authors will immediately get the idea of adding you one way or another in the current paper , while at the same time , you are not burning any bridges by appearing too demanding .
I find it hard to teach from others ' slides , which are often very dense . You need to " own " the material to have confidence to authentically teach it . I 'd start my own slide deck abd pull in slides as appropriate . Check what 's actually going to be assessed and focus on that . It 's also helpful to add more exercises for the students to do in class to help prompt good questions .
A thank-you card would be perfect , or even just saying thank you . There is n't a strong culture of giving thank-you gifts in the UK so your professor wo n't expect one and certainly wo n't feel that you are ungrateful if you do n't give him something . However , it 's almost never inappropriate1 to give a small gift if that 's what you want to do . The suggestions in the other answers ( a gift card for a coffee shop , a bottle of wine or especially something from your own country ) are all good ideas . I would n't spend more than about # 10 on such a gift . 1 The situations where it would be inappropriate would mostly be cases where the gift could be interpreted as a bribe ; that obviously is n't the case , here .
If your question is whether you can cite the patent in a research paper , then yes , absolutely : patents are fully citable sources , and patents do n't protect publication of related ideas . If , on the other hand , you want to use your related algorithm commercially , you 'd better get legal advice on that ...
Use a license . Different open science journals/repositories/etc . allow you to license your publication ( s ) / data/etc . Some allow you to choose a license ; others do not . Others may have different repositories . For example , <URL> gives submitters <URL> : arXiv does not ask that copyright be transferred . However , we require sufficient rights to allow us to distribute submitted articles in perpetuity . In order to submit an article to arXiv , the submitter must either : grant arXiv.org a non-exclusive and irrevocable license to distribute the article , and certify that he/she has the right to grant this license ; certify that the work is available under one of the following Creative Commons licenses and that he/she has the right to assign this license : Creative Commons Attribution license ( CC BY 4.0 ) Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license ( CC BY-SA 4.0 ) Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike license ( CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 ) ; or dedicate the work to the public domain by associating the Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication ( CC0 1.0 ) with the submission . The <URL> journal has <URL> : All papers are made freely available under an open access model immediately on publication at the Royal Society Open Science website and are deposited in PubMed Central on behalf of the author . Under a Creative Commons Attribution License ( CC BY 4.0 ) , authors retain copyright for their article but allow anyone to download , reuse , reprint , modify , distribute , and/or copy articles provided the original authors and source are cited . Once a license is chosen , all that remains is to enforce the license , which is simple enough . License enforcement is up to the holder of the license . If you choose the first of arXiv 's options , then the responsibility is arXiv 's ; if you license the work under one of the Creative Commons licenses , then the responsibility is yours . The enforcer of the license general is not required to enforce it if he/she/it so desires ( see <URL> on Open Source for more information , although that covers the GPL license , which is not applicable here ) . It 's typically in the best interests of the license holder to enforce the license , but there is no requirement . If you want to make sure that the license is enforced , then you would be best off keeping the license yourself .
A professor whose idea of a good or even appropriate letter of recommendation is to copy a letter off of the internet and send it to you is a knucklehead . ( That is a technical term : I am after all an academic professional . I could have used stronger language ... ) At least , he is in this respect : in the comments the OP mentions that he got a job at Waterloo , which is a university with a high international reputation . So he must have some other good things going for him . In the fullness of time , I have to believe that he will learn how to write a reasonable recommendation letter . But that 's not your problem . I would advise you to look at the fact that the professor gave the letter directly to you -- which is itself irregular and , in certain circles , inappropriate -- as a real blessing . He could have just sent this miserable excuse for a letter quietly to all the places you 're applying to , and you would be the one ( in the short term , at least ) to suffer the consequences . I strongly disagree that you should work further with this guy to write a better letter . ( In particular , I vehemently disagree that you should write the letter yourself . As I have said before on this site , I find that " immoral and wrong " -- a recommendation letter is a commissioned expert opinion . Looking over the opinion desired by the person you have been commissioned to evaluate and deciding whether or not it requires any modification is not how expert opinions work . But I 've made my feelings on this moral issue clear enough already . Here let me push the practical side of this : as a student , you can not write for yourself a good recommendation letter . There are components of such a letter that require expertise and personal experience that you necessarily lack . ) It is time to start fresh and get a letter from a new person . The part of your response that jumps out at me is " I ca n't find a third professor other than him who is willing to write a letter for me . " That 's the real issue here , and I hope it will serve as a warning to other students in your position . All undergraduates should be thinking -- from their first year -- about building good relationships with their instructors that will lead to multiple people being able to write them strong recommendation letters . It is all too easy to go through an undergraduate program -- even , perhaps especially , to excel at it -- while having very little contact with the faculty outside of the classroom and regular coursework . That is certainly a mistake . Okay , though : what do you do ? You ask whether someone who has not taught you in a course can write you a letter . The answer is certainly yes . You want the letter writer to ( i ) have stature in the academic community and in the particular area you 're applying to , and ( ii ) have something meaningful to say about your academic background , skills , work ethic , and prospects for success in graduate school . Someone that you have done research with can speak to aspects of that as well or better as people who have taught you in a course in which you quietly got an A . In a pinch -- as you seem to be -- I would advise you to try to make contacts with people who satisfy condition ( i ) and try to rapidly achieve ( ii ) with them . Thus for instance if you 've done any research at all in the field you 're intending to study , you could send a paper ( or code , or interesting data , or whatever ) to an expert in that field and mention that you 'd like a recommendation letter . This is a bit irregular , but if your work is solid , why not ? I would do it . I strongly recommend that you work harder to find the right person to write you a strong letter than to have further dealings with someone who has already proven to be hopelessly inept at the job .
Quick and dirty version : Google Scholar Type-in the DOI and read the citation count on the field " Cited by " . Google Scholar does not filter for quality , so the citation count will include self-published papers , fake publications , etc. . Expect some noise . Better version : Web of Science Ask your institution 's librarian how you can access the Web of Science database and how to use it to retrieve the data that you need . That might require you to walk in daylight to the physical location of your library . Many survived that journey .
Is this a cultural difference between continental European and British/American system I can not surely speak for all continental Europe , not even for a small portion of it and not for all fields , but speaking with a few European colleagues of mine , it appears that the expectations that we have on recommendation letters are completely different from the typical US expectations . In particular : We mostly consider recommendation letters as a mean to discriminate between those that are not able to provide any recommendation letter and those that can provide at least a couple . That is , we expect most of the people not to be able to get one ( in a distant past , I would n't have considered one who just attended one or two classes with me eligible for a recommendation letter ) . We do n't expect recommendation letters to be more than one page long , and half a page is ok ( you just have to tell me that you had worked with this person and that they are not that bad ) . We do n't expect the recommendation letters to be sent directly from the reference to the application board . We consider the writing of recommendation letters as a favour to the applicant , and not as a duty of our profession . Actually , all the recommendation letters I wrote but one were handed directly to the student ( or former student ) . For the exception , I 've received a direct request from a university to submit the recommendation through their online system : the uploading procedure , with questions to answer too , was such a hassle that I 've decided that in the future I will probably decline any request for recommendation letters to be uploaded anywhere . To answer your main question : Should I ask the professors to write and hand me recommendation letters directly , or should I try to communicate with the university and let the professors email them the letter/give me a physical letter sealed within an envelop , which I will send to the university by mail later on ? I understand your reasons , but I 'd consider this an odd thing to do . I 'd simply ask the student to provide the recommendation letters . In case the professors were reluctant to hand the letters directly to the student , I 'd write an email explaining the different traditions .
end question
start question
What percentage of PhD candidates drop out in computer science ?
The <URL> looked at PhD completion rates in the UK . In the UK , PhD programs are nominally 3 years long , and the Times reported that , averaged across all fields , 70 % of students obtain a PhD within 7 years . They predict that 80 % of students who start a PhD in the UK will obtain one within 25 years . There are some data for <URL> which shows completion rates asymptote at around 80 % after about 8-10 years . There is a fair amount of variability across fields in how quickly the asymptote is reached ( e.g. , the average PhD in Business is short compared to Medicine ) , but in all fields about 80 % of students obtain a PhD . I was not able to find any numbers for German universities or CS specifically . These numbers , however , leave out the substantial number of students who stick out grad school because they do not want to " fail " . While trying out grad school might sound good in theory , just make sure you are the type of person willing to drop out if it is not right for you .
Depending on the program I would keep it between 1.5 to 2 pages . I framed mine to answer the following questions : Why am I applying to this school . What are my research interests . Previous academic accomplishments . Previous professional accomplishments . Personal story of triumph ( optional , I talk about having to drop out of high school to support my family ) What is your goal after graduation . Addition : I would also target schools that are pumping out the research that matches with your interests ... this will help when you are stating why you are applying like : A major factor in helping me choose Awesome University was Professor Awesome 's research on being awesome . I feel that this aligns well with my research interests , and would make for a great fit between me and the department . Also , if you talk about any abstract ideas be sure to elaborate on them to give a level of specificity . They want to see you be able to translate abstract ideas into specific thoughts .
Is re-rewriting the core function of a world class - well known open source project ( where performance is a crucial ) and optimizing it to be 2-3 times faster , considered research ? It might be , but only under certain restrictions : You need to be sure no-one has written about the improvement before . And I am not talking about the particular piece of code in the particular project you are looking at here , but about the conceptual idea of how to improve the code . If you want to present your work as a scientific contribution , it needs to be conceptually novel in a way that no-one has described the methods you use in an abstract way before . You need to present your improvement on an abstract , generalized level . Modifying a particular project is nice , but it is not research . Showing a novel method how to modify any number of projects that feature a particular problem can be . Your change should not be entirely obvious . While research contributions do not necessarily need to be totally unexpected or groundbreakingly obscure ideas , if many developers could make the same modifications to the project simply by applying their professional knowledge , your contribution is probably not considered valuable enough , even if no-one else has described the actual procedure before . To answer concretely to your points : The idea is to parallelize it as much as possible , This might be interesting for a paper if it involves any methods for parallelization that were previously unknown , and that can be applied to other applications , as well . modify ( a bit ) well known data structures to be faster for the specific case , A " specific case " is usually not interesting for research results ; it only becomes interesting if you can show the " specific case " is generalizeable in some way . use a more suited language If you design a new language that is specifically suited for the type of applications in question , that could be publishable as research , at least if that language has conceptual advantages over existing domain-specific or general purpose languages for any class of applications . The mere translation into an existing language is most probably not publishable as research . and ( a bit ) more suited algorithms than the open source project used . If those algorithms are already known , it is probably somewhat obvious that they could be used on that particular proejct . As such , this is not a research contribution . I am applying what others made . Yes , fine . I do n't create an entirely new algorithm or data structure . Well , do you create anything conceptually new at all ? But on the other hand , I guess there are 1,000 s of papers published out there and many of them add little value , while my work will help improve the open source project . " little value " is relative . In research publications , value does not mean a solution can readily be used . Rather than that , value is usually seen as the product of the degree by which a problem is solved/situation is improved if the presented knowledge is applied the amount of cases in which that problem occurred/to which the solution is applicable Due to the second item , whether or not you already apply your method to one particular project is hardly relevant . As soon as it is known how to solve the issue , the research is done . Implementing the solution in a project may be helpful to the users of the project , but it does not advance the knowledge of humanity and as such , does not warrant a research publication in and of itself . To summarize : A research publication is not about what has been done , but about what has been learned .
I agree with Seteropere completely , " Network Science " is a very broad subject . I work with the theory of " dynamic networks " which involves a lot of graph theory , complex networks , and time series analysis , but also in protocol design for Delay Tolerant Networks which is another application you might like . Take a look at this website , <URL> it has plenty of links that I rate very highly . Including links to Alain Barrat 's work ( check out <URL> it has some wonderful illustrations of dynamic networks ) . There is also a conference devoted specifically to Temporal and Dynamic Networks <URL> Here are some of the tips I sent to a recent new student in our department , most are free in that there are no paywalls : Look at the references on the most recent papers you are reading , and also look at the conferences and journals that the authors are involved in by visiting their personal websites . This will tell you where people are currently submitting to . There are some websites devoted to finding conferences too , but do n't rely on them . Some examples : <URL> <URL> Find a conference you like the look of , look at their calls for papers , and past proceedings to see what they are asking for . Mailing lists ! Sign up to ( but do n't spam ) well known mailing lists . Again this will be dependent on the area you are interested in . In computer networking the biggest mailing list for calls for papers is probably the IEEE TCCC mailing list , <URL> . Social networks . Sign up to Twitter/Facebook/Linkedin / etc. . A lot of Phd Students , PostDocs , lecturers , research groups , and conferences are on Twitter . When you find someone or something you like , look for it on social networking sites , look who is following , what they are talking about , and get involved . Good luck .
When it comes to conferences , if there were submitted papers , and they were published as a volume , that volume is called the proceedings . A paper that was published in the proceedings must have been accepted by the conference . Sometimes the proceedings are published as a standalone work , and sometimes they are published as a special issue of a journal . It should be noted that some societies publish a journal that has " Proceedings " in the title , such as the " Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences " or the " Proceedings of the Royal Society " . These should be distinguished as standalone journals and not confused with the proceedings of a conference .
There is no difference . There is no global standard for what qualifies as a BS and what qualifies as a BA ; it 's entirely up to the university . There is no way to tell from the letters on your diploma how broad or rigorous your degree program is . Computer science programs in the US , at least in engineering colleges , are accredited by ABET . Those accredited programs tend to give Bachelor of Science degrees . But CS accreditation is relatively new , and neither graduate scihools nor employers really care whether your degree is accredited ( except for some government jobs which require accredited degrees by law ) . What does matter is which classes you took , and how rigorous those classes are ( or appear to be , based on publicly available course descriptions/materials ) . If the degree type does n't matter , what are the positives/negatives of getting a PhD with an BA/BS . The only advantage of getting a PhD with a BS instead of a BA is that you have one more S in your CV and one less A . This is also the only disadvantqge .
As the name implies , a statement of purpose should be forward-looking as much as possible . The " biographical " element of a statement of purpose should be included only to the extent that it helps to explain what you want to do as a graduate student . You most certainly do not want to start off with recollections of early childhood and the first time you realized you want to be a researcher . Instead , spend your efforts explaining why you want to be a graduate student in the department to which you 're applying . You should make specific reference to how your research will fit into the department 's interests . ( For instance , do n't propose a project in area X if the department does n't have a specialist in X. ) If you 're in a field where the advisor selection is made after matriculation , then you likely want to present a somewhat broader profile . If you show interest in only one professor 's work , then you are dependent on the decision of that single advisor ( who may or may not be on the admissions committee ! ) .
I 've met people who were Computer Science PhDs and actually were part of Psychology departments . If you did HCI , I think it gets harder to do Psychology , after all is a whole study area by itself , since yours was more specific . My advice would be to find a laboratory that has both of them , and that way you can get involved in some projects so you can learn other things about psychology I do not presume to know about the filed , but I 'm guessing there are multiple laboratories that might have a psychologist as well as a computer scientists . Essentially , build up your creed as a Psychologist by going somewhere where there is interaction between the two fields .
It 's usually politics or prestige . Back in the days when the computer science discipline was heating up ( mid to late 1990s ) , there was a big discussion on where to put computer science . Traditionally , it was a science , but at that time the economic outlook for high-tech ( which included electrical engineering and computer engineering ) was really , really hot , and it was fashionable to have a department that encompassed " everything high tech " . Thus , there was a big push to move computer science to the Faculty of Engineering . This was augmented at the time by the birth of " software engineering " programs and by a number of papers discussing programming and software development as more " engineering design " than " science " . Fast-forward twenty years or so , and you have what we have now , where programs that are related to " high-tech " are roughly grouped together . As stated already , the disciplines are different . I wo n't repeat @TinActon 's words since he 's summarized them well . However , they operated under the same high-tech umbrella for a while . Really , you do n't choose the department - you choose a program , but it 's more likely that there 's synergistic ( industrial ) collaboration in a department that has EE , CE , and CS together , as the industries that hire in EE , CE , and CS tend to overlap a lot . However , that 's not to say that there is n't cross-disciplinary opportunities for CS and the other science fields either . Biology and chemistry and physics all have a very high dependence on equipment and techniques developed in the EE/CE/CS side , and similarly EE/CE/CS benefit from the work being done in the sciences side .
I am always in a hurry to do the same . What I have noticed for this field is that if I predict something , I need to provide biological validation for my result . Why so ? Because this is how one knows if your results are correct and useful . A prediction is nothing if it has n't been evaluated . The field is littered with predictions that turn out to be nonsense , only hold up under very narrow circumstances , etc. . Is biological validation not the work of biologists ? No more than it would be if a biologist said " I just developed this algorithm , proving it 's correct is the work of a computer scientist . " Beyond that , there 's no reason for them to do so . " I 've made an arbitrary prediction , anyone want to validate it ? " is going to be met with a resounding " No " - the biologists have their own work to do . How can a computer science student provide biological validation for his/her prediction ? Is n't our job just to predict ? No , it 's your job to provide useful results . Validated predictions are useful . Just predictions are not . As people have noted , there are a number of ways to validate a prediction . Existing data , or even simulated data based on known biological patterns , might be sufficient . If no such data exists , it 's time to find a collaborator . Why do the journals want biological validation for the results ? Because anything else is just speculation . I did a prediction job , where I predicted some proteins to do a particular function . I communicated it to the Molecular BioSystems Journal . They rejected it saying I have no biological validation . If biologists are the one with the final say , then what point do we have in working in this domain ? Whatever we predict would be questioned . Do you know that it was rejected by a biologist ? There 's a number of computer scientists I know who would have rejected such a paper for having no biological validation . Beyond that , your " point " in working in the field is to generate those predictions and evaluate their correctness . The latter part is also an aspect of good computational biology .
References are references , and the reader already has all the information needed to make his decision on the quality of the source ( the trust he has in the source ) without you adding information . You do n't need to separated references in different " sections " ( which would make it much harder to read ) , or adding information . It is clear from the reference itself : boo2060 , " A question on grey literature " , Academia Stack Exchange ( ) , 26 April 2013 that it is not a peer-reviewed journal paper , which would have a very different style : T. T. S. Boo , " A question on grey literature " , Academia SE Monthly , 17 , 13-14 ( 2013 )
If such errors in published literature are relevant to the question of your thesis , then yes , it is not only appropriate , but even necessary that you address them . Otherwise , if the question of your thesis is not affected by these errors , and they are not major problems , I do n't think they are important enough to mention in the literature review .
Great question ! Unfortunately , I think there are not going to be great answers . Three ideas have come up in my discussions with users of registry data : Describe data access procedures completely : Be as transparent as you possibly can be about how you acquired the data , how others can acquire them , and what the policies and costs associated with acquisition would be . Show everything that you can : While you can not share the raw data , you can likely share a considerable amount of information from the data . For example , you can include descriptive statistics and graphics that convey the univariate and multivariate patterns in the data . You may also be able to share certain aggregated statistics ( e.g. , data aggregated at a block or city level ) . Offer to collaborate : You may have privileged access to data ( i.e. , other simply will not be able to access it ) . In that case , to the extent allowed by data access rules , you should offer the ability to run analyses for others and collaborate with them using the data . This would mean that even your critics can use the data in a meaningful public exchange of ideas , even if the data themselves can not be made public .
The major quantifiable predictor of success in research is ... success in research . People who have done research successfully in the past are more likely than not to continue to do so . For students that have not done research in the past , the best predictor I have seen for success ( whatever that may be ) is expressed in a quote from The Unwritten Rules of PhD Research , by Marian Petre &amp; Gordon Rugg : A willingness to learn for themselves and good judgement about when to stop and ask for feedback . * It 's not exactly quantifiable , but you can get a sense for it in an interview . ( Of course , this quality can be learned , so a lack of it does n't necessarily predict an inability to succeed at research . ) * I took this quote completely out of context ; the authors there are actually discussing the role of the PhD advisor , and they mention this quality in reference to a student " who can be pretty much left to get on with it , with supervisory meetings being something that both parties enjoy , and where each party learns from the other . "
I am surprised , but this does appear to be true . From the <URL> we have the following : ETS also makes available test-taker photos and essay responses on the Analytical Writing section of the GRE  revised General Test to designated score recipients as part of an institutional portal . Photos and Analytical Writing essay responses of all individuals who report their scores to institutions on or after July 1 , 2014 , are included in the portal . The photo and essay responses from each GRE revised General Test administration you select from your five-year reportable history will be made available in the portal as part of your score record to the institutions you designated to receive your scores on or after July 1 , 2014 . ( In some sense , I 'm even more surprised they are making photos of test-takers available . ) As for how the admissions committee processes these essays , others on the site can speak more directly to this , particularly in computer science . However , I 'm certain this will vary from department to department ( assuming any department looks at them at all ) . I suspect the admissions committee of many departments will not even be aware these essays are available through the ETS institutional portal . Of those that are aware these exist , I would be surprised if much weight were placed on these . These will convey almost no incremental information to an admissions committee . ( I suppose if you scored a 0 and the rest of your application was outstanding , and the committee knew these were available , someone might look to see what happened . Maybe . )
How much do I get from it ( as the article 's writer ) ? Nothing . Moreover , through subscription fees , your university is very possibly paying a substantial amount of money for access to your work .
The PhD is generally awarded to students for their individual contributions to science . That 's the whole point . It 's not only about advancing science , but advancing science yourself . Otherwise , we would grant a new PhD to each member of a research team every time they had significant new results . Everyone is aware that it 's possible to be more productive in teams , but the degree itself is really only about what you can add . So the encouragement to work on your own is there to make it easier to demonstrate what you have personally added to the body of knowledge in your area . Distinguishing your work from another student 's could be very hard if you do everything together . This is the traditional view at the very least . All this being said , discussions , brainstorming , help diagnosing problems should all be a part of students working with others ( students , postdocs , researcher professionals , the supervisor , and other faculty ) . You just have to keep your work separate enough that you can make an easy case for yourself when it comes time to defend your dissertation .
Conferences are organized differently in different subfield of computer science ; my answer describes the situation in theory . At theoretical computer science conferences , the program committees are relatively small , in part because submissions from program committee members are strictly forbidden . Each submitted paper is assigned to 2-4 PC members to review ; for a typical conference this means each PC member is assigned 25-50 papers to review . Reviewing that many papers is a huge burden , and despite a preliminary bidding process , every PC member is assigned at least a few papers outside their areas of expertise . So PC members regularly solicit reviews from people outside the committee whose expertise better matches a given paper . Those people are external reviewers . Normally each PC member tries to gets a different external reviewer for each paper ( except the papers they review on their own ) , but a single external reviewer might get papers from multiple PC members . ( In other communities , what I call " PC members " are called " area chairs " , and what I 'm calling " external reviewers " are called " PC members " . ) Does this mean the person officially reviews the paper for the conference , or he/she gets a request to review from someone who officially reviews the paper ? Both . A list of all external reviewers is typically included in the conference proceedings just after the table of contents ( <URL> ) as official acknowledgement of their service . On the other hand , PC members are expected to use the external reviews they solicit as guidelines , not as substitutes for their own judgement , especially when comparing submissions that were reviewed by different people .
I do n't think it is inherently unethical to do this . If all relevant parties know about it and you scrupulously acknowledge this other person 's work , then I see no specific problem . Whether it is advisable is a different question ... and one you should certainly ask your advisor . I have to say that it does not sound like such a good idea to me . Your thesis work is for you to do ... almost by definition . It is perfectly fine to get help from others on your thesis , and some people are better programmers than others ( even in CS , I imagine ) , so getting some pointers from a friend is actually a good idea . But paying someone to do a part of your thesis work just does n't sound good to me . Either the programming is an important part of your thesis or it is n't . If it is , you should do it yourself . If it is n't , maybe you do n't need to do it at all , or do n't need to do it to the degree that an outside professional would . There is also the issue of the impression this subcontracting would make on others . Perhaps the cultural norms in your field are very different from mine ( again : ask your advisor ) , but I would have a rather negative impression of a PhD student who did this : they do n't seem to be very committed to their own work . Added : To be clear , I am interpreting the question as meaning that the doctoral student himself is doing the hiring : i.e. , that this is his idea and he is using his own funds . ( If his university is giving him funding and simply asking him to pick someone to work with , then even asking the question " Is it ethical ? " becomes less plausible . ) In terms of suspecting that this is not a good idea , I hope I was clear that this is my personal opinion , with experience from a field ( mathematics ) which is rather closely related to CS but is not necessarily identical . As I said , the OP should consult their advisor about this . However , for what it 's worth I find it hard to believe that the reaction will be " Sure , spend your money . " While not unethical on the OP 's part , it seems , shall we say , suboptimal if both advisor and student feel that this is the best way to proceed .
As the class you TA is a programming class , I 'll suggest two options I 've used - that have worked well for me ( after Googling Stack Overflow and Github of course ) . Both these options start by asking conversational questions ( " How are you doing ? Are you enjoying class ? " ) to help relax the student - when talking about the code in the next part hesitations and mistakes can be used as an indicator for a lack of knowledge but not if it is just nerves . Option 1 : better for mid-level to advance classes : Look at their coding before hand , make sure you have some notes on their coding style , preferred methods , and level of knowledge . Then select one of their programs and ask them to write out on paper/chalkboard/whiteboard some code that solves a similar problem . Let them know that you do n't expect error-free code and that if they ca n't remember an exact method to just use something close ( depending on the class pseudo-code may be acceptable ) . The point is that a person who has done the assignment should come up with something that follows the basic logic and coding style that was seen in their assignments - if it is way off you know they likely did not write it themselves - many times leading me to start option 2 with them . Option 2 : I would honestly use 2 or 3 assignments for this method . As it is easier to see if the progression makes sense this way ( a person does not typically go from if/else to building generators and decision trees in the span of a class or two * ) and it gives more material to discuss . Starting with one of the programs , I would then ask very open-ended questions about how the student came up with their solution . You want to avoid fact questions as your trying to see the knowledge and thought process not just a memorization of quiz answers . You can ask follow-up questions here but keep them limited and still open ( " can you explain that more " , " why did you use that particular method " , " did you try anything else " ) . Your looking for a few things here : Someone who wrote the code for themselves should flow through the conversation naturally - without having to pause and think about their answers as often . The student should be able to explain each method . If it is a complex method they may get lost or make a few minor mistakes - but they should be able to explain all the concepts . The thought process they describe should make sense . This should include both the method used and the reasoning for using that method : " I decided on a for loop over the dictionary keys as that just seemed more elegant and easier to maintain then the massive if/elif/else statements " . I 'm probably missing a few here , but the point is that your experience and knowledge will usually make it pretty obvious if someone actually wrote the code or not based on just how they explain it . * I had one student who did just this . Turns out he had been programming for a few years and was picking up the language at a much faster pace .
end question
start question
What are the benefits of a poster award ?
In my field the thinking is It draws attention to posters from conference participators . It provides encouragements to individuals ( students ) to make an extra effort It encourages discussion about " good poster design " The selection criteria is always focusing on good communication of good science , never one or the other . Since such awards are given only to students and there ids usually also a similar student presentation award both selected by a set of valued senior scientists , the award should be and is seen as a merit .
I think the first question is , what does " slack off " really mean ? Many professors do change their priorities after tenure for a slower paced approach to their work more in line with their own intellectual values . Many things that might be perceived as " slacking off " in a pre-tenure professor actually do have value and are much easier to pursue post-tenure , e.g. , dedicating more time to students and teaching rather than research , or taking a slower pace to try to figure out an angle on deeper and harder to address issues . But let 's assume that our hypothetical professor is just saying , " I got mine , and I 'm going to do the absolute minimum hereafter ! " Here are some of the non-firing consequences : Not getting grants , it will be hard to have students . Their professional prestige will plummet , and anything they do want to do will get harder . They may get stuck with unpleasant scut-work tasks for the department , and will have more responsibilities foisted on them because " they have the time " that their harder working colleagues do not . They will not get promotion to higher academic ranks , nor the accompanying pay rises . Some people may actually be comfortable with this , and having a person who 's given up ambition and embraced a comfortable position as the organization 's reliable clean-up detail can actually be a good thing , as it takes those tasks away from others who have more ambition . But what if the slacker professor really does n't care , and does a poor ( but not quite enough to be fired ) job at all the tasks they are assigned by the department ? Well , every organization has ways to make a person 's life hell without firing them . In the next departmental reorganization , the slacker professor might find themselves getting moved to a small lightless basement office , the administrative staff may ignore requests for assistance , colleagues may simply treat the person as a pariah . Few people last long in an actively hostile workplace , and it may be harder to fire a person than to make them quit ...
Conferences in theoretical computer science like the ones you mention typically do n't have general chairs . They have a local arrangements team for organizing the event , and program chairs to manage the review process . Many conferences in CS outside theory have a general chair because they have many more activities . The general chair might be in charge of selecting The workshop program chair The posters chair The tutorials chair Publicity ( and social media ) chairs Treasurer Local arrangements And so on . The general chair can be viewed as being in charge of everything except the technical program and then delegates . But this may vary even within iterations of an individual conference .
This kind of questions are often closed due to being a " shopping question . " And yet , I do feel it 's important in faculty 's life . Perhaps you can reword your question so that it 's asking for " What to consider " rather than " Which software to use . " Now onto the question . The answer is " I do n't know . " It 's because the choice of platform can depend on a lot of criteria and not many were presented in the question . What I 'd suggest is to identify the education media person and the instruction designer in your institute and schedule a meeting with him/her . Prior to the meeting , prepare the followings . These are the general information the specialist will need to know : Is it synchronous ( live with real time interaction ) or asynchronous ( not live or only partially live , with more lag time interaction . ) For example , a live lecture that allows people to raise question at the same duration of time is closer to synchronous ; an uploaded video of a past lecture with a discussion board for Q&amp;A is more of an asynchronous design . The more details you can provide to the specialist , the more fitting the solution . Is it closed or open ? Do people need to RSVP and log in with user name or password ? Or is it just a link that anyone can access ? How many participants are you expecting ? Just a ballpark is fine . Do you need onsite AV and technical support ? This has impact on your pricing . But if none of the speakers has experience with technical troubleshooting , I 'd suggest get one at least for the first couple sessions . These are just the works you need to do with the education media person . On your side , there are a lot to think about as well : Online course has very different design concepts . While some of us may think that it 's just an extra camera in the lecture hall but it 's a lot more complicated than that . You 'd have to consider the pacing , consider if micro-lecture is a better alternative , figure out when to let participation or Q&amp;A happen , and design online assessment and evaluation , etc. . Resources are readily available on the Internet and in books . Consult the education media person for details . The management of the class is also different . For synchronous , I 'd suggest have one person do the teaching and one extra person ( could be a TA ) to manage the chat , collect and curate questions for you . It 's often disastrous for the speaker to try jumping between chatting and teaching . Test run , test run , test run , and test run more . If anything , this is the most important key to success . Find some friends and colleagues to join some test sessions . Collect information on their device and make sure there is a good diversity in operation systems , browsers used , microphone and camera models , desktops or tablets , etc. and make sure the system is as versatile and bullet proof as possible . Develop an etiquette/technical support guide and circulate it among the participants or make it available as a download prior to the event . The guide should contain i ) time and date of the event and details on how to log in . Screenshots with captions are great ; ii ) explain how to raise question ( through chat , e-mail , or bulletin board ) ; iii ) explain common etiquette such as mute your microphone when you 're not speaking to avoid audio feedback , etc. .
No , the major goal is to examine the validity , integrity and contribution of the work . Since these can be challenged , causing the work to be rejected or subjected to a major revision , editing at this stage would just be like staining the wood before the carpentry work . Also , at least for me , my mind runs on two different gears when engaged in editing and reviewing . If I have to edit , I can only edit ; if I have to think about the concept , I ca n't edit ... perhaps in my mind editing only happens when the concept is already there . Having said that , there are three areas I always do a full body pat down , once for concept , once for edit : Table : I suggest always comb through the table title , column and row titles , numeric agreement , footnotes , superscripts , etc. . Illustration : Check labels , title , and footnotes . Abstract : Look for typos and point out if a particular sentence appears to be terse or even misleading . The reason for putting the abstract under all lenses is apparent . The reasons for checking the illustration and table are that these are usually the most neglected places in copy editing and revision . And yet , these are the most viewed sections in a paper . Nine out of 10 errors I 've spotted in journal articles are in these two hot spots . In the main text , if there is any sentence that is very grammatically challenged , I cite the page and line in the review , and comment on the need of a rewritten version . If there are typos , I collectively write one separate comment requesting a through spell-checking , and give 2-5 occasions in the article as examples .
It varies very widely depending on individual faculty , departmental , and institutional culture , norms , and rules . For example , many faculty at my institution live in a city two hours away and only come to campus twice a week for classes and meetings . Faculty performance at my school is measured by lines on the CV , so one can argue that not going to school is a more productive use of time if you have a home office . Meanwhile , while in Japan , I noted that some faculty had to punch timecards that showed their daily attendance . There , faculty performance seemed to be measured by the appearance if diligence rather than actual productivity . On the extreme other end , adjunct faculty in the USA may not even have an office ( or library privileges ) to even have office hours .
From a web developer perspective , the only issue I can see is compatibility . If the provided computer does not provide an HTML5-ready browser , the presentation may not work . Unfortunately , having been in labs and lectures with institution-provided computers , there is no guarantee that an IT department has provided the newest browser . While I 'd like to think that people , especially at institutions , are keeping their machines up to date , we have to assume that some machines have been forgotten or have not been maintained . <URL> demonstrates that IE8 , <URL> , is woefully prepared for any HTML5 feature . IE9 has some functionality over IE8 and appears to cover the audio/video portions you require , but only IE10 appears to be HTML5-ready as of last year . I tried the reveal.js demo on IE8 just now . The rotating transitions do n't work at all ( it acts like Powerpoint basically ) , but it was usable . Since there are no videos or audio , I ca n't test those , but a standard presentation would at least be doable even in that browser . It is unlikely that any IE9 - browsers will ever reach full HTML5 support due to the security risks and time drain required , so any attempt to present on an IE8 browser is likely to be bare-bones and equivalent to viewing a PowerPoint . However , this can be largely mitigated with the use of a PortableApp web browser such as <URL> . A small footprint that can be carried around in a flash drive with the presentation . From a student perspective , might appear to be more confusing if you share the files , as it probably is n't just a file , but a source document , the JS , and so on . You will probably need to provide a read-me for being able to view the presentation . I 'm sure everyone here knows how to open and view a PowerPoint , but some of us might stumble a bit with a more complex solution that may depend on multiple files and folders . That , and the student would need an HTML5 browser to get all the features working . You probably will also need to direct PDF copy of the slides because I did n't see any noticeable way to print the presentation unless the stylesheet natively does that from the print menu .
In a one-sentence statement , I want to state as precisely and concisely as possible as much relevant detail about the project I was working on . For instance Analysis of Widget Manufacturing does n't tell me much about what you did . On the other hand In-situ XYZ Experiments and Numerical Modeling of the Parametric Influence of Temperature , Humidity , and Cooling Time on the Strength of Widget X under Load-Bearing Conditions tells me much more about the problem you 're working on . If you have perhaps a paragraph , then I went a short summary of your work . You should provide : a motivation for the problem , an overview of what you did , and a summary of the main methods , results , and conclusions of the work .
I 've been publication chair of an IEEE conference before , and it 's pretty straight-forward . IEEE has a well-arranged process for managing conference publications , and you basically just need to hold up your side of the deal and make sure that nothing falls through the cracks . In particular : you should have an IEEE CPS publications contact . You can get this from the current general chairs , since they 're dealing with IEEE , or ( since its usually the same from year to year ) you can ask the previous publications chair . Set up a meeting with that person ASAP and they can walk you through the process and make plans with you ; I 've had very good experiences working with their publications personnel . The key responsibilities that you should expect to fulfill are : Set a schedule acceptable to IEEE and the conference chairs Work with the general chairs to fill out the required forms and get them to the IEEE on time , so that you can get the publications <URL> contract signed . This will include setting the various different types of publications ( e.g. , main track , short papers , workshop papers , tutorial abstracts , etc ) , as well as pages sizes , expected number , delivery method ( I recommend USB sticks ) and budget . Send information about camera ready from IEEE to the various conference chairs that need it ( general , program , workshops , tutorial , etc. ) . Work with chairs to get all of the front matter prepared in a timely fashion and within the schedule negotiated with IEEE ( cover , index information , introductions , sponsored material , etc. ) . Immediately after the conference , report to IEEE whether there were any no-shows ( who should have their papers removed ) . One month after reporting whether there were and no-shows , everything should appear online in IEEE Xplore . If it does n't , then you need to keep pinging IEEE 's representative to make sure things get into IEEE Xplore as promptly as possible .
The advantages are that you get to stake a claim to some sense of ownership of the work ; it 's a way of inviting feedback and collaboration from others by showcasing your work in progress ; and it 's a quicker way to publish your work than submitting to a journal or conference . So when do you publish your work as a working paper ? When the following conditions are met : You 've done some work . And some combination of : you want feedback on it from a wider group than your immediate colleagues ; you want to showcase your work to get new collaborators , new funding , or improved career prospects you want to publicly stake a claim to the work you 've done And some combination of : the follow-up work is something that you 've already got sufficiently far advanced that it is very unlikely that you will get scooped by your competitors ; you 're not bothered about being first to publish the follow-up work yourself . And publishing your work in a working paper wo n't prevent it from appearing ( possibly in modified form ) in a journal .
I think the best option is to set up your personal page and have your file hosted there . It is better to have your own independent site ( independent from your university ) in case you are to move to another university ( post-doc , faculty position , etc ) and can not host your file there anymore . Once you have the dissertation hosted somewhere , you can share it through social media sites like Facebook and LinkedIn . If that is not a possibility for you , another option would be to share it online in an open access database like Figshare ( <URL> ) . Note that you should double check guidelines from your university to ensure it is okay , and consider if you plan to publish your dissertation in a journal in the future ( some journals do not like it if the pre-prints are available elsewhere publicly ) . Here is an online post about why one decides to have dissertations hosted there . <URL>
There may be some confusion here about the difference between 9 and 12 month appointments vs. arranging to have the salary for a 9 month appointment paid out over 12 months . In the U.S. , the typical faculty appointment is a 9 month appointment . Under this arrangement , a faculty member is required to be present on campus and teaching ( and doing research and service ) from September through May . They typically do not have formal vacation or sick leave but in practice can stay home ( and cancel classes ) if sick . They can also go on personal travel when classes are not in session . Faculty do n't have to formally request time off as long as they attend to their responsibilities . In this system faculty do not have to work over the summers , although many faculty do teach summer school or work on research grants and earn additional salary over the summer . Faculty will also often work on unfunded research projects over the summer . Many faculty with 9 month appointments choose to have their annual salary paid out over 12 months . This does n't create any obligation to work over the summer and has no significant tax consequences , but it is more convenient for household budgeting since summer salary can be quite variable and unpredictable from year to year . For example , I just learned today that I will be able to earn a month of summer salary teaching a course that starts on June 8 . I 'm still waiting to hear if some research funding for this summer will come through . I 've designed my personal budget so that I 'm not dependent on summer salary , so I have my 9 month salary paid out over 12 months . 12 month appointments are quite common for academic administrators and some full time researchers . These typically do accrue sick leave and paid vacation , which has some advantages but also has some disadvantages such as having to explicitly request time off .
According to the Committee on Publication Ethics , retraction is a possibility . See their <URL> , page 2 : Retractions are also used to alert readers to [ ... ] failure to disclose a major competing interest likely to influence interpretations or recommendations . The Retraction Watch blog <URL> how often this is carried out in practice .
There 's a wide range of people called adjunct faculty . For example , it may include working professionals in the field who serve as part-time faculty ( this is common in law and architecture , and I 've seen it with industrial researchers in computer science ) . Depending on the circumstances , this sort of adjunct may be treated much like the other faculty in the department , except for being part time . However , I assume you are talking about the most common use of the term " adjunct " , at least in the US , namely low-paid , low-status faculty typically teaching part time on temporary contracts . ( They may be working full time overall , but only part time at any given institution , so the universities can avoid paying benefits . ) For this sort of adjunct , it really depends on the details of the contract , and it may vary between universities , as well as depending on issues such as whether any of the courses are online . A typical arrangement will include some amount of course design ( at least at the level of creating a syllabus ) , lecturing , grading , and office hours . Typically there is no committee work or other service and no research duties .
This does not fully answer your question , but it is certainly one consideration . Multidisciplinary theses are often examined by multidisciplinary committees . Examining such theses is difficult , especially if the committee has no experience examining multidisciplinary theses . A consequence is that you will often be forced to conform to the conventions of different communities . In addition , the chemistry committee member may not see the thesis as a chemistry thesis and the sociology committee member may not see the thesis as a sociology thesis , because it lies somewhere in between the two fields and can not be a complete thesis in both fields .
Yes , if you 've only been asked to make minor changes , the paper stands a very good job of being published . Now you 've got to work methodically , and be meticulous with the detail . Go through each required change one by one . If it 's not an unacceptable change , make it ; and in a new , separate document - a log of the changes = write one or two sentences to describe how you 've made the change ( sometimes , a word or two , e.g. " spelling corrected " might be sufficient ) . If it would be an unacceptable change , write a few sentences in your log of changes about the basis on which you 're sure it does n't need changing . Work through all these with any co-authors . When you send the changed paper , add a covering note . In that , copy and paste each of their requests for a change , and after each one , add your sentences from your log of changes about either how you 've done the revision , or why you have n't . Your editor may have sent you a proforma or template to fill in , that would do the equivalent job : if they have , use it .
If research is a substantive part of the jobs you are applying for , then you should be wary of asking your Master 's supervisor for a letter . It could work out OK , but there 's a serious risk . The issue is that hiring committees want information about your current research , rather than what you did for your Master 's degree . If your Master 's supervisor has read some of your recent work and is capable of discussing and evaluating it in detail , then it will be a useful recommendation . However , you do n't want a letter that focuses on the past and just includes a brief paragraph saying " And the Ph.D. research seems to have gone well , but I do n't really know anything about it . " That could actually hurt your case by suggesting that you could n't find three people who understand and think highly of your more recent work . A strong letter that focuses on the past is certainly better than a weak letter , so it could be your best option . You might also talk about this issue with your Master 's supervisor , and see how compelling and up to date a letter she thinks she can provide . If she has read or wants to read your recent work , then that 's great ; if she is hesitant about the idea of writing a letter , then I would ask someone else .
It might be viewed as incivil to refer to someone else 's work as " obsolete " , whether or not one could defend such a claim . An editor or referee might object to the title , too , and , perhaps even be subliminally biased against your result because of a too-aggressive title . That is , " provocative " in the sense of more-vividly-descriptive , without too-direct negativism about prior work , might be a very good thing . But I think if " provocative " too much means " antagonistic " , the net would be counterproductive and regrettable . Asserting that you 've made progress is already a bit aggressive , suggesting , as is inevitable , that previous work is being superceded ( even if still relevant as some sort of historical/dialectic record ) . My own taste is that winners can afford to be generous . Edit : in light of edits to the question ... I 'd still encourage a sort of " innocent " - seeming , or almost-apologetic seeming , self-description . My point would be that people who understand the situation will see the implications of even a very-modest statement . Descriptiveness is good , yes , but perhaps not " judgemental " phrases .
Feel free to edit this answer to improve it , in particular to add other names you know to be used for the individual steps or to extend the maximum typical durations from your experience . The source for the diagram can be found <URL> . Overview <URL> Initial Check This step is usually performed by the non-scientific staff of the journal . It may include for example : Checking for broken files . Checking compliance with length requirements , if any . Checking central formatting requirements , e.g. , line numbers , if required by the journal . A plagiarism check . Excluding manuscripts of very low quality , such as automatic translations . Also known as : technical check , initial QC ( AIP ) , admin checklist ( IEEE ) Typical duration : A few workdays . Editor assignment or invitation Based on the topic of the manuscript and suggestions by the authors , an editor is assigned to handle the manuscript . Depending on the journal , the assignment may be done by technical staff , the journal 's chief editor , or automatic by submission category or author suggestion . With some journals , editors are invited and not assigned . Also known as : with editors ( APS ) , editor assigned ( Editorial Manager , AIP ) , AE assignment ( IEEE ) Typical duration : A few workdays to several weeks . Editorial assessment The editors decide whether the paper should enter the review process or should be rejected directly , e.g. , because it does not fit the journal 's scope or requirements on importance or quality . A rejection at this stage is called desk reject . The paper may also be returned to the authors for reasons other than rejection . With revised manuscripts , the editors assess whether the existing reviews have been addressed adequately . Also known as : with editors ( APS ) , waiting for potential reviewer assignment ( AIP ) , under review ( <URL> ) Typical duration : This strongly depends on the journal : With some journals , it is less than a week ; with others it may take a month , in particular if several people are involved in the decision or the initial quality hurdle is high . Peer review The editor selects a number of potential referees to review the manuscript . Should a referee decline to review or not perform the review in a certain time ( as given by the editor or journal ) , the editor usually has to select a new referee . The main exception to this is if the other referees already provided sufficient reviews at this point . With revised manuscripts , usually the reviewers from the previous round are selected . The editor may also decide that certain or all reviewers need not see the manuscript again , as their comments have been adequately addressed . Also known as : with reviewers , with referees , under review , awaiting referee assignment , awaiting referee reports , awaiting reviewer scores ( <URL> ) , reviewers assigned The initial selection of referees is usually comprised in the previous step . Some editorial systems give the status as with editors ( or similar ) if a new referee needs to be assigned and no other referee is currently assigned . Typical duration : This strongly depends on the field and journal . It typically ranges <URL> , but in some cases ( particularly for highly theoretical work where intense proof-checking is expected ) , it may be as long as one to two years . Moreover , the key factors for the duration of an individual peer-review process are how soon the reviewers find time to perform the review and how many reviewers decline or fail to review the manuscript . Thus , even for a given journal , there is a strong variation of review durations . Some journals give their statistics on this time ( or a related one ) on their webpage . Editorial decision Based on the reviews , the editors decide whether : The manuscript shall be rejected . The manuscript needs to be revised by the authors before it can possibly be accepted . If the authors submit a revised manuscript , the workflow is mostly the same as for the initial submission . The manuscript shall be accepted as it is . A decision requires further reviews . Also known as with editors ( APS ) , review completed , required reviews completed ( <URL> ) , <URL> , awaiting EiC decision ( IEEE ) , Editor Decision Started ( AIP ) Typical duration : A few workdays to a week . This may take longer with some journals , in particular if several people are involved in the decision . Copy editing and typesetting The article is copy-edited and typeset by the publisher . Occasionally , requests to the authors may occur at this stage , e.g. , due to low-quality figures . For some journals , a pre-copy-editing version of the manuscript will be put online at this point under a category like Just Accepted , with a warning that the current version has not yet been copy-edited and may change further before publication . Also known as : in production , in press Typical duration : This mostly depends on the publisher 's backlog . Usually between a few workdays to over a year , roughly correlated with the length of the publication delay ( see below ) . Final
As I understand it , in a typical private U.S. research university the different colleges or schools that make up the university have no legal independence , and they are simply administrative units within the university . ( On the other hand , part of the endowment generally consists of restricted gifts , which can only be used in certain ways or by certain departments . This can give the corresponding parts of the university more power or independence in practice than one might otherwise suppose . ) Do the Colleges have members , and if so who are the members ? Are all the matriculated members , or just current students ? Are the faculty members of the College ? This is entirely a matter of university policy . Current students , staff , and faculty would usually be considered members of their corresponding colleges , but this can vary ( and some universities just are n't organized this way in the first place ) . In practice , this generally does n't mean very much : it may determine some requirements for students in addition to departmental requirements , it could be listed as an affiliation on your publications ( although departments are more common ) , it might give a few privileges such as building or library access , and it tells you how to fill out university forms , but it 's otherwise not a big deal .
end question
start question
How does the acceptance rate affect papers decisions ?
Yes . But it would be more accurate to say that conferences have a fixed budget of papers that they can accept , due to scheduling constraints . At most computer science conferences , every accepted paper is presented in a 20-minute talk ; for a three-day conference with no parallel sessions , this practice imposes an upper bound of about 50 accepted papers . Of course larger conferences have parallel sessions , but program committees generally do not have complete freedom to add another parallel track , partly because of space constraints at the conference venue ( which is planned long before the submission deadline ) , and partly because major changes to the conference organization usually require input from the community . So inevitably , if a conference attracts a large number of strong submissions , it must reject some of them . This is generally considered better than the alternative , which is that the conference must necessarily accept some bad papers . This answer is specific to computer science .
Disclaimer : This is mostly from personal experience on the sending side of the process , and a little bit of talking to professors that have actually been on selection committees . As far as I can tell , the two main points for selection of poster vs. presentation are completeness and impact . By completeness I mean whether the work is actually finished or close to finished . If the selection committee can not tell whether work is finished , or knows it is n't , this is grounds to select the work for a poster instead of presentation . The main reason is that a presentation about work that is n't finished will most likely be somewhat boring , because it lacks strong conclusions , whereas at a poster a discussion about the work that is n't finished might actually be much nicer than work that is completely done . Impact is a bit of a vague notion , but in this context it consists of relevance to the audience of the conference and the level of innovation in the work . If work seems to be only relevant for a few people attending the conference the work will most likely be selected for a poster , because the people that are interested can then look up the poster . In case of a presentation the room would be mostly empty , because most people are not interested which is undesired . If the work is highly innovative , instead of a small step forward in a big process , this will most likely interest a lot more people , thus making the work suitable for a presentation . To summarize Finished work with high relevance to the conference audience and preferably large steps forward in the field will be selected for presentation , the opposite case will be selected for a poster or even rejected . Discussion In general you could say that a presentation is more prestigious , because it is sort of a quality stamp . However , the boundary between presentation and poster can shift substantially based on the type of conference , the number of submissions to it and the level of submissions and ( I know , not fair , but they 're only human ) the personal preferences of the selection committee .
I am a scientist working in a company and frequently collaborating with university academics . There is no difference between the papers we write . People at companies are more likely to write more applied papers , and people at universities are more likely to write more theoretical papers , but the distributions are highly overlapping .
I spoke recently with someone who is building such a website/community , and I doubt they will mind me giving a brief overview of how they intend it to work . Basically there are 2 issues that are difficult to overcome - assuming all the technological issues are minor : Skepticism Slander Skepticism in the sense of ' Oh , I see this PI has a bad review from 2001 , but who 's to say that will happen to me . Maybe this one student is an odd-ball ' . It also has parallels with the <URL> problem . And we see this a lot on academia.stackexchange too . We only ever hear 1 side of the story , and that story is rarely impartial . You know , occasionally people like to rant . People often omit the times they made mistakes . It 's human nature . And so any website of this nature has to somehow overcome this issue of he-said-she-said , and theres simply no technological device we can implement to get around this . Particularly if you allow anonymous submissions . The second , slander , is what I believe most people in the pubpeer.com debate are worried about . A deliberate attempt to hurt someone 's reputation under the flag of mob-justice . Nitpicking and emotive words , but no real substance , etc. . I actually only found out about pubpeer a week or so ago when a colleague at a party showed it to me , and I was shocked to see people I respect being picked apart on there for silly little things . Still , those anonymous criticisms do have some validity , and the concept of post-publication peer review is something I deeply agree with . I think only time will tell what impact sites like pubpeer will have on science . For a PI-review site , it could have disastrous consequences . Potentially legal consequences . The website/community I referred to up top seemed to have spent a considerable amount of time fleshing out all the technological methods that could help here , and in the end i 'm told they settled on the fairly low-tech idea for Skype-based interviews , potentially on a weekly release schedule . The idea is to mainly cater for people who hate their PhD and feel relief knowing they 're not the only ones going through hell . So these Skype interviews generally are with post-docs or no-docs who had a bad experience , and they talk about what the end result was , what they 'd do differently , if they still feel they were treated unfairly many years down the line ( I watched 3 interviews and they were all totally different , so i 'm finding it difficult to generalise here ) . But the big issue for the team putting all this together is finding PhD/post-docs/no-docs who are OK with talking about their experiences . They offered to interview me but I turned them down because , frankly , i 'm not that brave . They offered to pixilate my face , but even so ... as disappointed as I am with my treatment during my PhD , there 's no one specific person that really let me down . It was a system of failures , I think , and one that is unlikely to happen again . So that particular PI-review project would n't really help me or people like me .
Running a journal with Wiley as a publisher , Wiley 's instructions state JPEG , TIFF and EPS are acceptable formats . Since many authors supply figures in PDF and PNG I started to pass these on to the type-setter and found that no issues erupted . It is therefore clear that publishers may lag behind with their recommendations while type-setters are quicker to adapt to " new " formats . I imagine the lag is possibly a lack of interest to update what works , but can also be because they work with many type-setters and printers and wish to maintain a largest common set of files that they know all can accept rather than having to constantly adapt to individual services ' capabilities . I am fully aware that this thinking is a bit arcane and that any type-setter/printer that can not handle almost everything has very little potential for survival in today 's competitive world . Anyway . I would suggest asking the journal if it is possible to use PNG in your case , or do as many authors have done in " my " journal , send them in anyway . It may , for example , be possible to send in a JPG and a PNG copy of the graphics asking them to use the PNG if possible . As a side point : PNG is in my opinion the best pixel format because of its strong loss-less compression except for photographs , something it was never intended for anyway . Using PNG graphics will keep down the size of final PDFs of the article which is a good goal to have . So in my case , I encourage authors to provide PNG even though Wiley does not .
Since nobody wrote it in an answer , I 'll do it : the answer to your question depends on the journal , but in each field most journal would have about the same policy . In some fields ( e.g. mathematics , high energy physics ) , the answer is ' no ' : posting a preprint in Academia.edu , the arXiv , or on your web page does not prevent you to have your work published by a journal . Many publishers will even allow you to update your public preprint according to the referee 's comments , only keeping the publisher-formated version behind a paywall ( not all of them though : Oxford University Press has a very damaging policy in this regard ) . In other fields ( e.g. some humanities at least in some countries , chemistry ) the answer is often ' yes ' : many journal would reject your paper right away on the ground that it already has been " published " in the sense of being made public . Even if they do n't check , they may ask you to pledge that you did not published the material previously in that broad sense , and lying on these kind of issue may be devastating to a career . In other circumstances , the answer may be more subtle . Some very prestigious magazines as Nature , Science , PNAS may ask for some publications that the authors keep them secret until the journals communicates about the work . This is to ensure maximum media coverage , but of course it concerns only the very small portion of academic works that is considered both as very important for the field , and of great interest of a general audience .
Even asserting about the plan of the internship within the SoP would be valuable . Because it certainly depicts your plans for the future , as a succession of the intentions , could which be continued with pursuing the target graduate program , purposefully . You better to stress on the expected outcomes of that internship within the SoP , would which be along the recent research projects in the target department in order to increase the applied coherency . On the otherhand , CV is supposed to cover one 's preceding accomplishments ( and even might consist of current and unfinalized affairs , just like a submitted ) , but mentioning the uncertain points about the future ( may which never happen ! ) does not fit , reasonably , within its scope .
Elaborating slightly on David Richerby 's answer : cite the paper with the authors in the same order that they appear in the original . Never reorder them for any reason . The simplest reason for this is that people will expect that your citation matches the original author ordering . If the original paper has authors in the order A , B , C , D , and you cite it with authors B , D , C , A , a reader is going to think you are talking about a different paper by the same people , in which B was listed as the first author . They will probably figure it out eventually , but confusion will occur in the meantime . For a deeper reason , there are two possible reasons why the authors wrote their names in the order A , B , C , D : They made a decision that A should be considered the " first author " , perhaps because A had the original idea or did most of the work . They made a decision to list their names alphabetically , so that nobody would be " first author " . This implies that they believe that all of them contributed ( approximately ) equally to the paper . In either case , you should respect their decision . If you change the author ordering , it makes it seem like you are second-guessing their decision , as if you know better than the authors who did what on the paper . This will come across as arrogant and disrespectful . You ca n't assume that the person who presented a paper at a conference is the one who did the most work on it . Maybe A did the most work but could n't attend the conference for some reason . Maybe they all did the same amount of work , but B really wanted to give the talk and so they agreed to let him . You also should n't assume that the professor of a workgroup is the one who deserves the most credit for a paper . In many cases , the most senior person on a paper is the one who is least involved in its details ( because they are dividing their time between many different projects ) . So if the paper lists the authors as A , B , C , D , cite it as ABCD . Some people think the use of et al is problematic , especially for alphabetically ordered papers , but if you must use it , cite as " A et al. "
Let us assume , for example , you read Doe ( 2011 ) and find Smith ( 1966 ) referenced therein . Technically , you can say something like " Smith ( 1966 , cited in Doe , 2011 ) " , or alternatively " ( Smith 1966 , cited in Doe , 2011 ) . " The exact format depends on the format of the journal ( it is also possible to phrase it " cited by " instead of " cited in " ) . That said , however , it is very dangerous to provide such quotes since you do not know if the person ( s ) citing the paper has understood it correctly . It is not unheard of that people cite for very odd reasons and not double-checking works cited may just propagate such errors . So , it is possible but not recommended .
You can answer this question is to look at the date stamps sequences on some of the existing papers . Many journals ( including the one you have asked about ) , include all of the major dates in the publication process , e.g. , " Received Date1 , Accepted Date2 , Available Online Date3 , " as well as the final date of publication . Note that the " Available Online " and final date of publication may often be very different , but except in rare cases it is " Available Online " that you should care about because that is when people begin to be able to get your paper . However , some journals do not do all of the final proof correction until closer to the date of publication , but essentially just have your preprint up online for quite some time ! Applying this analysis to this particular journal , one can find the following : Acceptance to available online looks like 1-3 weeks Final publication happens ~ 6 months later So you will probably get contacted about the proof very quickly ( if they follow the normal method of proofing before online availability ) , or not for several months ( if they do late-binding proofing ) .
I think there are two aspects to your question : 1 ) Do editors see how many other papers you are currently reviewing ? Yes , in fact this feature is supported by at least some submission systems . I am not sure about Elsevier , but below is a screenshot from <URL> ( also known as ScholarOne ) : <URL> The second and third column list how many open reviews the person has , and when ( s ) he last submitted a review . 2 ) Do editors care ? Are you more likely to get new reviews when you have submitted your current ones ? In general , they will likely not care too much . At least in CS there are myriads of different systems in use , and knowing that a person has currently no open reviews in any given one of them tells me close to nothing about what her or his total review backlog looks like . Further , it is not my place as an editor to decide whether the person can take on another review - I can invite her or him , and they will just decide for themselves . That 's what the Accept / Refuse buttons are for , after all .
Your problem is quite common among researchers . Actually it 's not really a problem , being overwhelmed like this is just natural . Me and all my friends and colleagues face it . How I overcame this issue : I try to focus on one paper at a time . Try starting reading the latest research paper on a particular subject and go back chronologically . Print the research paper in hard copy , leave your computer and cell phone ( if possible ) behind and start reading the paper . The point here is to avoid internet access . No matter what question you have , do not search it right away . Write it on the side notes and keep reading . Most of the time the answer will be in the later sections of the same article . Even if you do not get the answers , once you finish reading the paper , you can go online and find all the answers . That 's how I read literature without falling in a rabbit hole . Also , reading the Abstract first , then the conclusion , and then the rest of the paper is also effective . For me , changing place of study also helps to focus and good instrumental music is always a plus .
It is possible . After years away from graduate school , I am working on several papers , covering both old and new topics . However , it is very hard to do it completely alone . I have the benefit of some contacts acquired through one of the forums on StackExchange . They are willing to spend a limited amount of time ( say half an hour a month , to within two orders of magnitude ) in email correspondence with me , to receive drafts from me ( but not necessarily referee : just skim for a few minutes and find more egregious aspects which they kindly point out ) , and most importantly , endorse me for posting on ArXiv . Before the endorsement , I spent some time convincing them I would n't be a drain , that I could help them out , and that I might hope for a favor regarding endorsement , literature search , and so on . Realize that from their perspective , I could be a potential crank or downside on their career , as I have given them almost no verifiable information on what little credentials I have . I consider their involvement as a gift , and treat it with care . With their minimum involvement , I now can post results on the ArXiv , and use that as a stepping stone to loftier research goals . Since your express purpose is to produce research for others to read , you need three things : the research , the others , and a means to get the research to the others . Getting to know one or two of the " others " is key . Getting them by being helpful on this and other fora is one of the easiest routes I know for this step , but there are other methods . There may be other repositories besides the ArXiv which may help you more , but I do n't know of them ; ask the " others " for advice , and respect their time . The research part , that 's your problem , again with which " others " might be able to help .
I emailed the editor and suggested I had a beautiful and relevant graphic for a special issue . That worked . Edit : Image attached . Also , note that I did go about it incorrectly , but it worked anyway . I emailed the editors when I submitted my paper . I should have waited until it was accepted .
It 's not necessarily crazy for academia.edu to ask for these things ( although , as I say below , I certainly do n't think users should agree to these terms ) . I imagine their lawyers advised them to use an agreement that covers all possible use cases as their business model evolves . For example , if they decided to charge their users membership fees , and only users who paid the fees got access to the site and could view profiles and download papers , then that would be tantamount to selling the papers and other user data ( so they could n't do it unless they had permission to sell this content ) . Posting ads on their web pages could be considered a form of commercial exploitation of the data , so they want to make sure they can do it . They might someday want to change file formats , such as converting PDFs into future super-PDF formats , and having permission to modify content submitted by users guarantees that they could do this . Even if they intend to take things down upon receiving requests from users , having irrevocable permission to post them means users can not sue them for failing to take them down quickly enough . Basically , this agreement says they can do anything they want , which is obviously very convenient for them . For comparison , Harvard 's <URL> also retains very broad rights ( although not the right to sell papers for a profit ) . I believe the motivation is that universities can be trusted , and it 's better for them to retain more rights than fewer , in case they need them somday . See the notes to line 7 in the model policy for more discussion of this point . Of course , the difference is that academia.edu is a commercial web site , and even if they are trustworthy now , they might become less so in the future or be bought by someone untrustworthy . On the other hand , even if it 's not crazy for the site to ask for these rights , it 's certainly crazy for users to agree ! I 'm amazed that these terms of service are being used , and I assume just about nobody using the site has actually read them and understood that they are permanently granting the right to sell arbitrarily modified versions of their papers . I hope you send them a complaint , as well as publicizing this on the internet , because they need to change these terms as soon as possible . In addition to being completely unreasonable , they clearly conflict with a large majority of copyright agreements for papers , as you point out .
A ' principled approach ' , at least the way that I 've been exposed to this term , implies due care and diligence with regards to the rigor and discipline used in the materials context . A paper that describes a principled approach would be one that is presenting a procedure for the execution or evaluation of a given subject matter . For example , if I picked up a paper titled ' A principled approach to algorithm selection and implementation ' then I would expect the contents of that paper to clearly enumerate a system of algorithm analysis , with exhaustive supporting documentation . Conversely , a paper which uses a principled approach would be one that follows such a detailed and rigorous methodology that the data collected from its research may be considered to be functionally with out bias and with a low probability of corruption or inaccuracy .
To the admissions committee : You 'll definitely want to explain it in your Statement of Purpose ( or whatever the equivalent may be in your country ) . It will probably be noticed but there is n't anything you can do about it now except do better and possibly seek help about your issue if you have n't already . Some relevant questions are <URL> and <URL> . To employers : This is highly dependant on the field and employer . In Computer Science/software engineering , from my experience , employers do n't care . They care about your abilities and the only time they even want your transcript is to check off HR 's requirement that he/she does indeed have a degree . Larger and more corporate companies may care more , but my horrible undergraduate transcript has passed many times without any question ( as have my colleagues ' ) .
Writing " good " papers is an integral part of being a good academic , and therefore it is , in my opinion , something that supervisors should teach their students . This means you should be active in teaching them how to write , and less active in the actual writing itself . Struggling is part of any learning process , provided they are struggling with writing , and not with your reviews . The best you can do is to provide the student with clear goals of how the paper should look , how it should be structured and what it should contain . Looking back at my own first papers , I usually started writing before knowing exactly what the bottom line , e.g. the take-home message , should be . Discussing a plan of the paper , both with regards to content and the writing process , with the student before letting him/her write it is probably a good idea . When reviewing the manuscript , I think it 's important to provide clear , consistent and constructive criticism . Specifically : Clear : If you do n't like a sentence , paragraph , figure or table ( do n't forget these latter two ! ) , make sure you tell the student exactly what you do n't like about it . This may require putting intuition aside and thinking through why you 're not happy with it . Consistent : Avoid editing ping-pong that lead to the same paragraph being re-written 20 times back and forth . It 's probably a good idea to keep copies of previous iterations with your own comments . This also helps the students if you can tell them they 've done a good job fixing things from the previous iteration . Constructive : This is kind of obvious , but I ca n't be reminded of it often enough . Deadlines are a bummer , but they 're as much part of the academic process as the writing itself , so the best you can do is to teach your students to prepare for them adequately , i.e. plan ahead . Addendum As for authorship , in my opinion , teaching a student to write a paper in no way qualifies as co-authorship . It 's part of your job as an academic . Co-authorship is something that arises out of having contributed significantly to the contents of the paper .
Based on my limited experience , I am not confident that open science practices affect tenure decisions directly , at least at the moment . However , there are many indirect benefits . Making the paper publicly available increases the citations . See this <URL> by Kurtz et al. from 2005 . This <URL> provides a nice summary and critique of this literature . Making the data publicly available increases the citations . See this <URL> by Piwowar , Day , and Fridsma from 2007 . This <URL> provides a nice overview . I am confident based on my own experience that a reproducible workflow is a much more efficient workflow ( e.g. , much easier to pick up and make progress after an invitation to revise and resubmit ) . Efficiency should then lead to higher quality output , higher quantity output , or both . And both quality and quantity contribute positively to tenure and promotion . Further , one important step in encouraging other researchers to use your data is allowing them to easily reproduce the original findings . This step is automatic for reproducible research . I 'm less optimistic about the incentives for pre-registration ( at least in my field of political science ) . In my view , there are still strong incentives to not pre-register studies . The culture is changing , but somewhat slowly . Here 's is a <URL> discussing some of these pros and cons . Indeed , this <URL> from 2013 by Ebrahim et al. titled " Effective Strategies for Increasing Citation Frequency " lists many practices that are also open science practices , such as self-archiving papers , publishing in open-access journals , placing papers in open-access repositories , and making the data publicly available .
I too am in CS but I found the schedule of conferences to be fairly simple and I strive to submit to the same conferences each year . First , identify the handful of conferences in your field that are both reputable and aligned with your research topics . Then you can form a mental model that is made up of ( A ) the deadlines and ( B ) the prestige . For example , all of the conferences that I would submit to all have deadlines that cluster around two times , Fall ( August/September ) and Spring ( March/April ) . I can also group them into top-tier or second-tier . At that point , it is pretty easy to know where I am going to submit each piece of work based on whether it is Fall or Spring and whether it is suitable for the top-tier venues . One side note . I have been given the advice to find 1-2 conferences that I can call " home . " That way I can get close to the community , network , and they will become familiar with my work . I have been told to avoid shooting papers off to a dozen different conferences because they will be forgotten in those communities .
end question
start question
Are there people who have done so much work before PhD that they get a PhD automatically ?
The closest example I can think of is <URL> . After publishing several extremely strong results as an undergraduate , Mihai earned an MS in one year and then a PhD in one year , all in computer science at MIT .
Let me explain my comment as an answer . The admission process works in two different ways : Formal enrolment and informal enrolment Formal You apply through university web link and select the research areas or supervisor . Then probably you communicate with the chosen supervisor through email ( s ) . If things go well then you might get an interview call or direct admit . Informal You approach the supervisor first . Discussions or interviews may go on . If everything is alright , you supervisor would speak with the admission committee for your official admit . In both these types of cases your supervisor recommends for the admission . However , it is the decision of the admission committee to make the final call . Note : I have skipped the recommendation letters related points which is a major part in both these types of enrolment . Moreover , each University has their own set of rules . It is wise to go through the same .
it only takes time and effort I think the answer to the question is already there . It takes time and effort . So it means it takes at least the money to pay the people for a long time . And effort means you need a lot of people . More precisely , for medical research , reagents , animal model , clinical test are really expensive . Many different drugs need to be developed to have only one working in the end . Finally when a drug seems promising , you have to do year-long clinical tests , just to ensure patients safety . So time and effort == lot of money
Why would knowing in advance matter to anyone except cheaters ? This information will not help honest students prepare for the exam or change how they approach it , so for them announcing it afterwards seems just as good as in advance . One argument for announcing it in advance is that some potential cheaters might decide not to try to cheat ( and spend more time studying or become a little more honest ) , but the counterargument is that it might just encourage them to find more effective methods of cheating . I do n't consider either of these arguments especially compelling , and I 'm not convinced it really matters much whether the announcement is before or after the exam . This issue tends to come up in large courses , which are often pretty standardized . I 'd bet the students who care whether there are multiple versions of the exam can easily find out what this professor has done in other large classes , so there usually wo n't be much of an element of surprise .
I am not aware of initiatives in other countries . However , while VroniPlag started out with examinations of German doctoral theses , it is no longer limited to those . <URL> To the extent that this is a continuing trend , VroniPlag already is an international project . So the answer to the question in your title ( which differs from that in the body ) , whether online community investigations of PhD thesis plagiarism outside Germany exist , is yes .
I will try to respond to the abstract question , with a perspective from Germany ( that may or may not be valid for other European countries ) : Is the master 's in X PhD requirement in Europe satisfied by a master 's in Applied X rather than Pure X ? The general answer to this is yes . As opposed to the subject chosen for the Bachelor and Master degree , which is <URL> , as Bachelor and Master curricula are closely coupled here , a PhD is often completely disconnected from the former studies . Note that the <URL> that <URL> linked to in the original version of <URL> does not require a particular Master 's degree , but a " relevant Master 's degree " . Without any further restrictions , this means that anything closely related to the subject ( and the relationship between Applied X and Pure X might very well be sufficient ) should do . At least , that would be the interpretation in Germany ; it is possible Austrians interpret this differently . However , it is also very well possible that the suitability of the Master 's major is determined based on the research projects at hand . In that case , it depends entirely on the decision of the respective department chair , and it would be worthwhile to contact departments you are interested in . As a concrete example , it is completely normal in Germany to see Masters of Physics , Linguistics , and Maths starting PhDs in Computer Science , not only Masters in Computer Science . EDIT : To clarify the last remark : None of them have to take any extra courses ; rather , they are expected to bring their professional subject-specific knowledge from physics , linguistics , and maths , respectively , into their computer science research ( while " informally " ( i.e. without a class ) catching up with the CS knowledge ) , just like Masters in CS are expected to use their professional CS-specific knowledge in their computer science research , while " informally " acquiring knowledge on ( w.l.o.g. ) physics , linguistics , and maths , as required for their respective research .
Basically , admissions decisions follow from two main issues : government policies regarding funding and immigration the available pool of applicants For instance , recent policies in California made it very difficult for the University of California system to enroll international graduate students . This was not the result of internal decisions , but rather something imposed upon them by the government . Similarly , a visa embargo applied to a particular country would make it impossible for a university to bring in students from that country . Other than that , I think most graduate admissions groups are looking for the best available talent , rather than having a specific quota of domestic or international students . They might do some recruiting domestically if they 're not getting enough domestic candidates ( compared to any " targets " they might have ) , but I do n't think they 're going to admit domestic candidates that are unqualified just because they 're domestic .
I have no direct experience with statistics programs , but I know of no reason to think they differ from math programs in this respect . Assuming that 's the case , letters of recommendation are absolutely critical , at least in U.S. universities . I agree with the person who told you they practically are your application , and I 'm mystified by how someone could tell you they make no difference . ( I wonder whether it 's someone who has never served on an admissions committee or was educated in a very different system . ) It 's true that just about everyone gets what might appear to be good letters . The issue is n't whether they say bad things about you , but rather how strong they are and how compelling a case they make . I 've certainly seen many cases of letters written by the same person that differ enormously in their effect , even though they are all nominally positive . The third piece of advice you received in no way contradicts the second . It 's not enough for a letter just to include flattering comments about you . It needs to make a compelling case for why you will be successful in statistics , written by someone who knows exactly what it takes to succeed in this field , has seen other strong students to whom you can be compared , and has a reputation to protect that will keep them from exaggerating or trying to manipulate the admissions committee . A senior statistician is the best case , but a junior statistician or a mathematician may also be able to do a fine job . A letter from a chemist will not be helpful , and a letter from a professor of literature , no matter how enthusiastic it is , will hurt your case ( by demonstrating that you have no idea how the application process works or that you could n't find anyone more relevant who thinks highly of you ) . Exactly what is required depends on where you are applying . At the top departments , you need letters that make a very strong case indeed . Even outstanding students will be rejected , and you need letters that set you apart from the others . At much lower ranked departments , it might be possible to make a favorable impression based largely on grades and test scores , but even then you 'll still need good enough letters . ( The bar will just be lower . )
I 've had great experience with Google Scholar Alerts . To use them , go to scholar.google.com and search for any term . In the results page , you will see a link to . Click on that and create the alert to send you notifications . One very good use of this is to follow specific papers . For example , I have a star paper of mine that I 'm currently extending and I like to keep track of who is citing this paper . So , I search for the paper on scholar . In the results page ( just under the result for the paper I 'm concerned with ) , there 's a link . Click on that and you get results for only those papers that cite this article . Now , create an alert on this page . This way , whenever someone refers to this paper ( and Google finds out about it ) , you get an email . Do this for all the important literature in your field and Alerts will make sure you are kept abreast of your field . Never miss out on an important finding !
It is not clear how to judge the " size " of a thesis ( page length or word count is probably not very good ) , but one can clearly do too much research for a Masters or Doctorate . That said a factor of two difference is not really that big since there is always going to be a healthy overlap between the " largest " Master thesis and the " smallest " PhD thesis . If your Masters thesis is larger than the average PhD thesis and larger than the vast majority of Masters theses , then it is possibly too large . As a student you need to be asking yourself why you are getting the qualification . Most students put in much more work than that which is required to simply graduate . You should make sure you push your supervisor to help you achieve your goals .
As with many things the history of higher education is not well known since accounts may be scarce or missing altogether . Early evidence indicate that schools existed in Egypt where , primarily , boys would learn to read and write etc. . One has to remember that such skills were not for the masses . Religiously connected schools also emerged where religious texts were handled and copied . Theological and medical teaching was also done but very little else . evidence of mathematics have been found so there were also schools , perhaps aiming at architecture , astronomy , etc. relevant for the culture . None of these has a degree at the end but was likely based on apprenticeship and mastery evaluated by the teachers . Similar evidence for teaching exists in all older cultures and seem to focus on maintaining order in the social and cultural basis for society . There seems to be a big step when considering Greek education which was far more comprehensive than the pragmatic education earlier . In the city states of ancient Greece specialized schools emerged where teaching circled around very specific topics such as the Hippocratic school of medicine on Cos. . This specialization seems to have continued with the well known Greek philosophers/scientists such as Aristotle , Plato etc. and teaching progressed in directions envisioned by these founders . In other words , there was no single systematic way for schools to teach and operate . In the Roman world subjects were ordered in groups that we can recognize today : I grammar rhetoric , dialectic ; II geometry , arithmetic , astronomy , music ; III medicine , architecture . This was how the liberal arts ( defined as theoretical and intellectual activities by the Greeks ) were seen . The subjects have of course survived to modern times although organisation has changed . So education became more organised but the education was not open and still served a purpose for maintaining government rule . Out of the post-Roman world came the first universities as stated in the question where education became even more organized and eventually including fixed degrees . This answer is loosely based on the excellent book : The first universities by Olaf Pedersen , Cambridge UP , 1997 . I strongly recommend it !
A major perk of being an academic are the long breaks between terms , when we have the freedom to travel and make our own schedules . However , this comes coupled with the responsibility to keep being productive during these breaks , and this is harder than it sounds . You are wise to be thinking ahead about how to manage this . I 'm not sure exactly what you have planned , but I 'm going to guess it may include extended visits to see friends and family . Here are some things I have found useful : Explain to them that , although you are glad to get to spend time with them , you 're not on vacation from work the whole time . ( Non-academics often do n't realize this and assume the entire break is free time for you . ) Look ahead to set aside specific times in your schedule for work . Ask your hosts to check with you before planning any family activities , to make sure they do n't conflict . Again , they should n't assume that all your time is free . ( " Oh , but you ca n't work on your paper tomorrow ! I 've just arranged for us to go on a picnic with Uncle Jrgen ! " ) Consider going somewhere else to work , such as a library or cafe . Trying to work with relatives around is often distracting , especially if some are children . Set specific goals for what you want to accomplish during the trip . If you share them with your family ( and can convince them that they are exciting ) they may be able to help encourage you to work toward them , and to arrange things so that you have the time to do so .
Short answer : they are two different ( but overlapping ) subjects . Medium answer : Applied math is a broad term that can mean anything from mathematical physics to machine learning to cryptography to numerical analysis to biostatistics to ... the list goes on . And it can mean different things at different universities/departments . There is plenty of applied math that does n't involve statistics . I would go as far as to say that less than half of applied math involves statistics , although the prevalence of statistics is growing . And even though , philosophically speaking , statistics may be a form of applied mathematics , there are plenty of subjects within statistics that are not what people usually refer to as applied math .
The answer is that in some fields ( La ) TeX dominate whereas in other fields ( La ) TeX is largely unknown . Obviously any field where equations are required is more likely to be using ( La ) TeX for writing and publishing . However , it is not uncommon that journals , or rather , type-setters of journals , use LaTeX for final production regardless of submitted format . The same applies to book publishers . But , the fact is that the use varies and one needs to check with the journal to which you wish to submit . The fact that you are not " allowed " to write your thesis with ( la ) TeX is perhaps because your advisor does not use it . I am an avid LaTeX user and am struggling to convince both colleagues and students in my department to at least try using it so I know how difficult it can be . In the end , I need to use both to be able to communicate with my colleagues and peers . So although I do not see why you should not set the thesis in ( La ) TeX in the end , you probably need to use word for the manuscript so that your advisor can provide input on files you supply . But , check how many journals actually use LaTeX in your field and strike up a discussion with your fellow students and your advisor . I think it is worthwhile to be fairly fluent in using many tools . Edit : I will just add that I was convinced by a friend to use TeX ( not LaTeX , it was a long time ago ) when I wrote my thesis ( a monograph at a US university ) while almost no-one in the department used TeX ; but then my advisor always provided feedback from double-spaced printouts which were platform independent . Those were the days .
My personal remark : I am not particularly fan of clicking all around links in an email I just got from a stranger , however natural and official looking it is . From reader engagement point of view : Links directly included to the text actually invite the reader to interrupt their reading and click and go to the website of another university , reading this and that there , instead of reading your mail ! It is exactly you do n't want , becasue you want her/him to stay and read your mail from start to end . If you really want to link , I would make a separate short paragraph at the end or in P.S. , something like " for your convenience , here are links to blablabla " . That way the reader easily can reach those websites , IF she/he chooses and AFTER she/he read your message .
One theory is that it serves as additional motivation for students to attend class , which in turn helps increase their success in the course . It gives them a short-term incentive to do something which is hopefully also in their long-term best interest . If attendance is so crucial to doing well in the class , would n't the students who do n't attend do poorly in the exams anyway ? In many cases the instructor has found from experience that this is true . But the student ( who has less experience ) may not be as convinced . Consider a student who wakes up in the morning and does n't feel like going to class . In a class with no explicit attendance requirement , the student may rationalize : " I will just study harder tomorrow to learn the material that I missed , and I 'll still be able to do well on the exam , so skipping class will have no consequences . " But they overestimate their ability to do that , and end up not learning it as well . Or tomorrow they put off the studying until the next day , and so on , and fall behind . As an eventual result , they do not do well on the exam . In a class with an attendance requirement , the student knows for sure that not attending class will have negative consequences . The biggest consequence ( failing the exam ) is very likely but not guaranteed , and the student may not be able to impartially evaluate just how likely it is . But loss of attendance points is guaranteed . So the student can not pretend that skipping class is harmless . Thus the student is more likely to actually attend , which is in their long-term best interest anyway . Hopefully , the ultimate result is that a higher percentage of students are able to meet the standards of the class . The flip side is that some students who have good attendance but poor performance otherwise may get better grades than they " deserve " , but the instructor may feel that this tradeoff is justified .
In addition to @aeismail 's points , in the U.S. the undergrad degree ( B.S. or B.A. ) in math is typically rather thin , due to " breadth " requirements , so a year or two of a PhD program is spent catching up , in comparison to most other educational systems in which specialization occurs earlier ( and perhaps high school math education is more intense ) . Some decades ago , it was the style in elite places in the U.S. to have people finish a PhD degree as quickly as possible , often in three years , as proof of ... something . This was plausible under the hypothesis that students at such places had an unusually good background . In fact , given the way professional mathematics has evolved , spending more time learning things and maturing before hitting the job market may be wise . In any case , no one is creating artificial obstacles to any student 's quick graduation ! In my current institution , there really are no " required courses " , in the sense that there are some modest proficiency exams in standard material that need to be passed , and courses help prepare for those , or can substitute for proficiency exams to some extent . Thus , a well-prepared student can " test out " of requirements . One underlying problem seems to be that people take as much time as is allowed , so if it is understood that one may take six years " if necessary " , then most people plan to use up that time . Not that they 're " forced to " or " kept from graduating earlier " . And then there 's the reasonable fear of facing the job market that leads to " avoidance " . I would claim that " having to teach " is not a serious impediment to quick graduation . However , its relatively immediate gratification can seduce people away from the far-less-immediate gratification of research and study .
There are universities and research centers in Europe who accepts students without a masters degree , but they would require to take full credits of masters and to complete modules , before or while the research is being conducted . Therefore you might want to get in touch of those universities . Here are a few which I know of : <URL> <URL> Most of the time you need to show that you have enough skills with your previous experiences , publications , the letter of application/statement of purpose . An interview may follow where you will be asked about your work and the domain of work in which you have applied .
As @Nate Eldredge this , how this is received is going to vary widely based on academic culture . Let me assume that this is a course at a US university , and that it is an " official " course : that is , one that students register for , receive a grade for at the end , and the instructor gets some credit for teaching . In this context , the practice would probably not be acceptable to many key people in the university . At most US universities there is a notion of credit hours : there is a positive number of " credits " a student gets for a course ( most frequently 1-4 ) and also a number of hours per week that the course meets . Now ( by widely agreed upon convention rather than cosmic truth , of course ) there is a fixed conversion factor for this : at my university , 50 minutes of class time per week = 1 credit . An instructor who only meets for one hour out of a scheduled two hours is risking the disapproval of the registrar , other departmental faculty including the head , and the students of the course . The registrar is probably going to be unhappy because it looks like the course is trying to cheat the system : if everyone decided to claim twice the number of credit hours that they actually met , it would cause absolute chaos for ( especially undergraduate ) programs . The departmental faculty are also going to be unhappy ( to say the least ) about this , on the one hand because the number of credit hours usually figures into the teaching load -- the standard departmental teaching load basically amounts to faculty teaching so-and-so many hours per week ( on average ; loads can vary from one semester to the next ) . Claiming twice as much as you 're doing is certainly not okay . And of course , most faculty want courses to be taught well , and it is hard for me to think of clearer evidence that my colleague is not doing a good job with his teaching than that he is only meeting for half the scheduled time . Finally , it is likely that the students are going to feel shortchanged ( " halfchanged " ? ) , and in light of all the stuff above , I do n't see a satisfactory rejoinder to a student who feels that way : on the contrary , I think they 're right . So what to do ? I would suggest beginning by bringing it up to a departmental faculty member . Good places to start are : ( i ) the instructor of the course , if you feel comfortable , ( ii ) the department head , ( iii ) whichever faculty member you feel closest to in the department ( e.g. your academic advisor ) . For such conversations , it is important to stay calm and factual . Be willing to proceed in several steps . Definitely indicate an awareness that there seems to be some kind of real mismatch here , and if necessary you might want to mention that university administrators like the registrar might be concerned about it as well . ( Again , I honestly think they would , and departmental faculty should know that they would . So this is more like a reality check than a threat of escalation . ) Another idea : can you ask some other faculty member ( or person in a position of authority ) to visit the course ? Anyone who shows up is certainly going to notice a two hour course ending after only one hour . On the other hand , they may well talk to the instructor before they show up , which might result in the instructor 's taking the full class time . Which is what you want , of course . If that happens once and then he goes back to halftime , then it gives you an easy opening to speak to him about what 's going on . I want to end by saying that this really is cultural . What you 're describing sounds like quite an extreme case , but there is variation between US universities and personnel at those universities on the practice of ending early . It is not unheard of for instructors and students to feel that they have done all they need to do in a certain course meeting and thus end early : they may even feel great about doing so . For me personally , over the course of almost two decades of instruction at US universities , I have moved steadily in the direction of thinking that for a three credit course , the very least I owe the students is 150 minutes a week of me in the classroom . I remember though that I taught one undergraduate course at my institution , pretty soon after I got there , and for various reasons I decided to cancel three of the 50 minute class meetings , including the last one ( excluding the final exam and review sessions for the final ) , because I was interested in presentations given by graduate students in a different course that met at the same time . The present me finds the past me 's behavior slightly outrageous ... So indeed , some variation on how this is perceived exists !
It 's not a myth . There are/have been some journals that pay peer reviewers . For example : The <URL> used to pay $ 5 per review , until some reviewers complained that " if that was the price that this eminent journal placed on their opinion , the New England Journal of Medicine should seek referees elsewhere " The <URL> reportedly pays for peer review " sometimes " Reviewers for journals published by the <URL> earn <URL> for each " timely " review . <URL> ( zbMATH ) pays 2.56 EUR per review , although this is for post-publication reviews that are then published . The <URL> offers " a review model in which selected peer reviewers may be paid to deliver high-quality and speedy peer-review reports " ( if authors pay an extra fee for the fast-track option ) The <URL> has offered an honorarium of $ 100 for each " timely " review <URL> pays its peer reviewers an honorarium of unspecified amount , supposedly " to motivate rigorous peer review " The <URL> ( which is on <URL> of allegedly predatory open-access journals and publishers ) pays reviewers for its journals $ 60 - $ 100 per review Whether the reviewer being paid , has more obligations to provide thorough in depth review is true or not is entirely uncertain , though .
end question
start question
How and why would I " claim ownership " of a paper on arXiv ?
By claiming ownership the paper appears in your arXiv account , and you can manage it there ( e.g. uploading a new version or adding a journal reference ) . It also means it will appear in the list of papers associated to your arXiv <URL> , which is especially useful if you have a common name . You can claim ownership by logging in to your arXiv account ( create one first if you do n't have one yet ) , and then click on the " Claim ownerhsip " link . It will ask for the paper ID and the password . Edit : As Wrzlprmft pointed out in the comments , it will likely also add to your endorsement record , meaning that you are less likely to need to be endorsed for future submissions you make yourself , and will sooner be able to endorse others .
If it 's published in the conference proceedings , it 's published . You can list it as a conference publication in your CV . You ca n't publish it again in conference proceedings . Regarding publishing it ( or an extended version ) in a journal , see <URL> especially <URL> .
The novelty of a scientific result is defined in terms of its relationship to previously published results . In order to perform such a comparison you need : to have a good idea of what related works have been published by the community , typically obtained by some combination of reading papers and attending conferences , and to compare your your system against the most similar prior systems and demonstrate its quantitative or qualitative superiority ( e.g. " my system is three times faster " or " my system can process widgets AND frobs , and all previous systems could only do one or the other " ) . The " amount " of novelty is then how much better you are , relative to the interests of the community , and is very community dependent : a 2 % improvement in the cost of manufacturing concrete is worth billions of dollars , while a 2 % improvement in the speed of a personal computer program is generally unnoticeably tiny .
Using a CC-BY license on arxiv.org will be fine whenever you do n't need to retain exclusive rights . CC-BY is a non-exclusive license , and you are free to grant as many non-exclusive licenses as you wish . However , you wo n't be able to grant a exclusive license thereafter , which is what most commercial publishers are looking for . The typical " transfer of copyright " would essentially be an exclusive license in these cases . If you intend to publish the paper submitted to arxiv.org with an open access publisher , it should generally work with a CC-BY license . Most open access publishers require only a non-exclusive license to publish a paper , so there would be no conflict here . It may however not be possible to go to a publisher which requires either an exclusive license or a copyright transfer afterwards . Interestingly , a copyright transfer may be less restrictive than an exclusive license in this case . In principle , it should be possible to transfer copyright even if a license have already been granted to someone else ( that 's how a company would buy software from another company that has already been licensed ) . So , why not try the following with your next paper : Submit it to arxiv under a CC-BY license . Submit to a commercial publisher , and add a statement like this to the copyright transfer agreement : " This agreement is with the understanding that a non-revocable , non-exclusive license under the terms CC-BY has been granted to a arxiv.org . " I wonder how they 'd react ...
Perhaps one little " therapy " often relevant is to try to remind yourself that you are the authority in reading papers critically , and the goals are about progress , not evaluation of you by some third party . It is understandable that " school " has left one with an excessively paranoid concern about being attacked , being " checked-on " , being examined , being doubted , and so on . Indeed , " school " often includes exaggerated measures that express very clearly an antagonistic , adversarial attitude of " teachers " toward " students " . Naturally , many negligent students are able to ignore this pressure , while students who were already doing the right thing are the ones who feel that somehow they 're not doing enough . A similar dynamic exists in many human enterprises . So , again , the thing to repeat to yourself over and over is that now you are to function as an authority , you are to assess these papers . The point is not so much any more someone else 's assessment of your " performance " ( often on meaningless , contrived , artificial tasks ) . In particular , the common " teaching-examining " devices of " trick questions " should be forgotten . When encountering a new idea , do n't immediately be worrying how someone could use the idea to trip you up , but , instead , what constructive use you could make of it . In particular , if it does not ( at least for the moment ) seem useful to you , then do n't spend a lot of time on it just for the sake of self-defense against trick questions ! Nevertheless , one should often keep a " pointer " to seemingly useless ideas , because their utility may be discovered only later . But do n't study things whose utility seems null . Move on , just keeping a " bookmark " , so if/when something percolates into your head later , you can go back and look a second time .
I 'm not an ocean physicist , or anywhere qualified in oceanography , nor do I have a slight idea of what your topic is on . That being said , research involving water , and any political ramifications that may impact it , typically will impact commerce related to the oceans . In this case , theoretical commercial impacts : Fishing . Your research may potentially result in a ban on fishing , or make it harder to obtain fishing licenses . Trade commerce . Ships are still used to transport goods around the world , including oil . As above , any sort of research that indicates that the oceans may be unsafe or bars certain trade routes will result in economical impacts down the line . National borders . Traditionally , countries own a specific amount of shoreline before international waters . A shifting shoreline may result in a changing border and or possible border disputes . Tourism . Obviously , effects of the water , even perceived , may impact tourism . Insurance . Rising tides = rising premiums . Whether or not these apply to your topic , I ca n't really tell , but it 's better to start with a list of things and then check them off as irrelevant gives the no ethical impact argument more weight .
As you 've described it , this sounds rather odd . Reviewers are under no obligation to accept a paper to review , so to accept one and then submit what sounds from your description like a complete cop-out is strange behaviour . It 's also a bit odd for the editor to send you completely uninformative comments . It 's possible that they genuinely did write a review , but that the text has been copied mistakenly , either by the reviewer or by the editor . It might therefore be worth sending a brief email to the editor to enquire about this review . Something along the lines of : " Thank you for consideration of our paper . In the copy that I received one of the reviews does not contain any comments , only text from our paper . I just wanted to double-check that the correct version has been sent through , in order to make sure that I can respond effectively to all of the reviewers . " Be very polite , and make sure you phrase it as a request for clarification , rather than a complaint . If it turns out it was their genuine review , you are of course allowed to care - it 's a bit frustrating if one of the reviewers has not fulfilled their role properly . But it 's not a big deal , and there 's not much that you can or should do about it . Some journals only get comments from two reviewers anyway , so just think of it that way and ignore the third .
The question is a legal one , so it would depend on what legal system you 're subject to . Ideas per se can not be legally owned , but via patent and copyright you can own the expression of ideas . With a patent , there is a legal process that you need to go through , to gain legal ownership over , say , a method of converting speech to text . If that 's the case , you better get on filing right now . In the case of copyright , you basically do n't have to do anything in the US , except if you need to sue for infringement and plan to go for statutory damages , then you need to register the work ( also , registration is prima facie evidence of ownership of the work ) . But , you will have a copyright transfer or licensing agreement with the publishing venue . If the journal requires a transfer , you do n't own the work anymore . And , at any rate , your university ca n't claim ownership of the work , unless it can prove that this was a work for hire . The closest it could come would be if there is a condition in your employment agreement saying that anything you create is their property , then they could fire you and maybe sue you for not assigning the copyright to them . I am not a lawyer , but I seriously doubt that any clause that says something broad like " anything that you create is automatically our property " would be upheld in court . They can forbid you from claiming an affiliation , but you listing an affiliation does not create any property right for the university .
Well if you disagree with the comment , then you offer a sound , well-reasoned counterargument that addresses the concerns . If your equation is interesting , then why ? If it is not obvious , then why ? Do these alleged equations/models only look similar , but in fact there 's a deeper and possibly subtle distinction ? If so , point it out . Non-combatively . These are the sorts of things that often get addressed in the introduction . Possibly the remark is ultimately a reflection on your paper having a weak introduction that fails to address the " what 's new here and why should I care ? " questions with sufficient flair , clarity , and authority . More than one legitimately good paper ( to whatever extent such a benchmark exists objectively ) has been rejected because the authors failed to do an adequate job of " selling " and explaining the paper in the abstract and introduction . Of course , there 's also the possibility that the remark is spot-on . One reason journals tend to use multiple referees is because there 's no guarantee that any one expert has authoritative and unbiased knowledge on whatever bits of arcana your paper is using . Nor is there a guarantee for two , or three , or whatever , but the odds are better that if something is " wrong " from the standards of the journal then it will be found . A literature review is the way to delve into this possibility . " Elsewhere in the literature " would suggest to me that the reviewer believes you have intentionally or accidentally excluded some important pieces of the literature , and this can only be resolved by looking further into the literature ( and possibly asking colleagues if they know of anything that might seem relevant ) . If ultimately you end up agreeing with the comments , in part or in whole , that can be a tough pill to swallow , but reality is what it is . You can still try to rewrite portions of the paper to properly address preceding similar work and argue why yours is in some sense novel , interesting , and/or useful . And then you either hope this placates the negative reviewer sufficiently to earn acceptance , or you submit it to some other journal after a rejection . " Minor generalizations " are sometimes simply not up to snuff for certain journal standards , while it is well within that of others .
Legally , the style file at first only is the software which you use to generate your paper and thus there should not be any problems in most cases , for the same reasons that you do not need to ask Microsoft for permission each time you publish something generated with Word . I see three problem cases , however : If you use TeX , and ArXiv does not have the style file and thus you need to supply it , which would make it be published alongside your article . In this case you may be distributing a software that you may not distribute . Many style files are free to distribute though ( at least in my experience ) . The style file includes a logo or similar ( e.g. , Royal Society Publishing 's style file does this ) , which in turn may not have a license that allows you to distribute it . The style file makes your paper mention the journal 's name , which creates the false impression that your preprint is actually a publication of that journal . Will the journal get mad ? -- Of course you need to regard the journal 's copyright agreement ( which you accepted ) with respect to publishing preprints in general or on ArXiv in specific ( <URL> is a database that helps you to find this out ) . But if the journal allows you to publish a preprint content-wise , I do not see any reasons why using its style file would enrage it , given that the above problem cases do not apply . Some journals even allow you publishing the journal 's version of the paper on ArXiv , e.g. , the <URL> . Finally , a stylistical argument : If the journal has a single-column layout but your paper has no long formulas or something else that would make such a format a good idea , you may want to opt for a two-column layout for your preprint .
I consider LinkedIn to be pretty low-stakes interaction , so I merely want to avoid being linked to spammers and frauds . My own policy , then , is that I will accept LinkedIn invitations from anybody who I actually know who they are , either by a ) having had a non-trivial interaction with them ( including by phone or electronically ) or b ) indirect interactions such as reading their papers . Other people may have more stringent policies , but in my opinion , it 's reasonable to request a connection with anybody you have a relationship with : the worst that will happen is that they will ignore it .
I am going to answer based on an implicit assumption I feel much of your question hinges on : One of the problems is , they did not mention that part in the abstract , therefore I have accepted . This sounds like had you known that their work is so similar to yours , you would have rejected the review . However , I would argue that that can not possibly be in the interest of the review system . Yes , you could argue for a conflict of interest , but it is the conflict of interest that exists generally , based on the simple fact that other people beside you do research in the same or similar topics as you . It is not a conflict of interest on a personal level ( e.g. you being part of the team whose paper is being reviewed ) . Instead , it is a conflict of interest that , in theory , should quite often exist in the review process - for reviews to be meaningful , reviewers need to be familiar with the topic to some extent , and thus , a similarity of the research topics between authors and reviewers is hardly avoidable . I see your concerns about what the authors of the paper under review might be thinking , though you might have to brush them aside for the time being . However , what you can do is draw the benefit from being the reviewer and thus having early access to a manuscript : While your method may be very similar , it is most probably not exactly the same . When describing your method , try and insert a few sentences that focus particularly on a few aspects that you do differently from them . For future publications you might write on similar topics , keep in mind that there may be a similar publication by those authors around that you can cite . This has advantages for both sides : You increase the chances to include a relevant citation that you might otherwise miss ( and thus the authors ' chances of being cited by you are increased ) . Even though you can not yet cite the work of the other authors , your clear description of some different aspects serves as a way to " preemptively " establish the differences between your work and theirs . If they happen to publish a revised version of their paper after your work has appeared , you have already provided them with quite a straightforward foundation for describing their differences to your work . In the comments , the concern has been voiced that even without the assumption of plagiarism , the authors of the other paper might still feel by rejecting their work , you intentionally stalled their progress for long enough so you could publish your own very similar work first , and now it 's their problem to care about the prior art . However , there are some aspects of good scientific practice that speak against that line of reasoning : You do not provide an unjustified judgement , you provide a review . If you choose to reject the paper , you have the opportunity to describe objectively and in detail why you deem the work in its current state not ready for publication . The other authors have not yet published their work in a properly citeable fashion , but that still just means you have plausible deniability on your side when you are asked whether you knew about the other work . Scientific integrity still demands that you consider the existing prior work , published or not , which is exactly what you are doing by specifically describing some aspects that you do differently than the reviewed paper , as described above .
Yes . It is certainly okay . Indeed , general practice when writing a PhD thesis is to produce a number of publications that add up to the thesis , whether directly ( using staples ) or by a good deal of massage . Some published material may be omitted and some additional material may be included . There 's no reason why this should n't apply to a Master 's thesis , too . It is a good idea to cite the paper in the thesis ( if the paper has been accepted for publication ) and the thesis in the paper , if possible .
It is generally sufficient to say explicitly that " in this section we will recall the method X from [ citation ] " , and then simply do it . However , you may find it preferable not to quote equations and text from the original paper , but to adopt it according to the style , notation and message of your own manuscript .
tl ; dr : Version control is harder to set up , but makes it safe to work on the same file , and makes it easy to track history ( i.e. previous versions ) . Pros and cons of syncing files Yes , the biggest advantage of things like Dropbox ( I use it as well for backuping and synchronizing my files ) and SugarSync is their easiness . They may work for collaboration on files , but : they are not meant for two people editing the same file at once ( no merge functionalities - so one guy changing a file can overwrite changes made by other guy , even without knowing that ) , you get no history , i.e. : did anyone worked on that file I want to work know ? did anyone added or modified any other files ? which changes were made ? can I go to a previous version , the one I sent to my supervisor ? Depending what you do , it may not be an issue . For example , if only one is editing file , while others are only reading or uploading figures - it 's perfectly fine . And also , look at my answer on <URL> with a not technically-inclined collaborators . Version control Version control systems require some technical skills . Two the most common version control systems are <URL> and <URL> ( with the second one being more Windows-friendly and , arguably , easier to start ) . Both by standard comes only with command line access , but there are some graphical interfaces as well ( I really recommend starting with <URL> ) . So , if the collaborators are techie , just teach them how to use it . If not - there is a way around . You can keep track of version control by yourself , without engaging others ( I 'm doing it just now with 2 collaborators ) . Just you start a repository inside folder you share ( the examples are with Git ) : Now , every time you or your collaborator make some changes ( e.g. add some files , correct typos , revise a chapter , ... ) you do : Later , you will be able to go back to this version ; and also compare , e.g. the current version of your file with the previous one ( by default - by line , here - by words ) : See also : <URL> <URL> at StackOverflow <URL> <URL> - a great and comprehensive tutorial <URL> <URL> And real world example from using diff ( it makes my life so much easier :) ) ; commit messages in Polish , but I guess you get the idea : Otherwise ( <URL> ) :
If I take your question correctly , it sounds as if you do n't know whether to refer to the styleguide that informed you to structure your thesis in a certain way . So , in your introduction , you have a section such as : The next chapter of this thesis describes the background literature . Chapter 3 outlines the methodology and so on . Chapter 4 presents the experimental design , whatever ... Finally , chapter 7 concludes and provides further possibilities for research . This structure is suggested by Cresswell ( 19xx ) If that 's what you 're thinking , then I would say no ; do n't reference the styleguide that you based your thesis structure on . Just like you would n't cite , for instance , the AP styleguide for your spelling conventions .
Independently of whether you need an affiliation , this sounds like a well-known representation of trig formulas ( Euler 's formula ) . There is quite some theory involved with this , including and up to Galois theory . You should check with someone knowledgeable whether you indeed discovered anything new . It 's fun to discover new stuff , and it 's a cool feeling to recover things that very smart people came up with , but , once you are there , you have to give it the reality check , which is the ultimate hallmark of the scientist . Perhaps some friendly mathematician from the local college is happy to spare half an hour with a talented high schooler to give you at least an idea how novel the idea is or what else to try from this point on ?
It 's really hard to find cons . If I were forced to list some , I 'd say : people get to see your LaTeX source . If it contains secret macros or unflattering comments that you forgot to delete , the whole world sees them . It is also possible that they contain other copyrighted material that you do not have the right to distribute , such as a commercial font . ( In my experience , no one will look at your LaTeX source anyway ) . Arxiv gets rights to distribute your paper online , forever . This may conflict with copyright rules for your future publications . For instance , you may want to insert content from the paper into your thesis , and then publish your thesis as a book with a publishing house that wants full 100 % absolute exclusive rights . ( In my experience , respectable publishing houses do n't . ) Your publication agreements or grants may mandate additional requirements when you publish your work . For instance : provide a reference to the journal version , or acknowledge the National Institute of Funding Grant 1234567890 . If you forget about them , trouble may ensue . ( In my experience , it hardly ever does ) .
I have just checked that changing authors when replacing a paper is technically enabled . I am pretty sure I have seen this happen : those with more searching savvy than I will surely turn up with actual examples . And yes , the arxiv maintains all previous postings and their authorship . I do n't see any ethical problems with what you propose . But I 'm not sure I understand the message that you 're seeking to convey : are you saying that you attach some meaning to an initial posting by your student only followed by a replacement jointly authored with you ? To me that does not have a clear meaning ( and by the way , some people will look at the first posting and many wo n't ) . If anything , that would look to me like you realized that what your student uploaded was not satisfactory , so you stepped in to salvage the situation . If that 's not what you 're going for , maybe do n't do this . Why not just upload a jointly authored posting the first time around ?
No , cite it as you would any other paper . You do not mention the paper status ( " invited paper " , in your case ; " review paper " , " perspective " , " editorial " , etc. ) in the citation , unless that is formally part of the title ( which it typically is not ) , or unless the citation style explicitly calls for it ( IEEE does not , and I know no citation style that does ) . In IEEE 's templates and LaTeX classes , the only place which mentions invited papers is a command to indicate when your paper is an invited paper ( here for <URL> ) : Special paper notices , such as for invited papers , can be declared with :
end question
start question
What to do when you find out someone else presented your research without crediting you ?
Is this normal or is this something that I should be credited for ? No , it is not normal practice ; yes , you should be credited whenever a result from a paper for which you are a co-author is mentioned . The only exception I can think of is if the paper has several authors and is cited in the style " [ first author ] et al. ( 2014 ) showed that ... " . Even then , one would typically expect the presentation to include a full citation at the end that explicitly mentions your name as a coauthor . Is it typical for someone to contact you before using your research in a presentation ? They do not need to contact you before mentioning your research in the presentation ( and it is not typical for anyone to do such a thing ) , as long as two conditions hold : a. the research that they are going to mention has been published or is otherwise publicly available , and b. they credit you by name in their presentation as I stated above . Is it worth contacting the company about this ? That depends . What are you hoping to achieve by contacting the company ? It seems very difficult to judge from the details you provide whether this was some kind of egregious , intentional misrepresentation by the person in the video , or whether it was an accidental omission due to sloppiness or perhaps not copying correctly the list of authors . If it was the latter , although it is still a bit annoying I would n't bother complaining - at most I would send a friendly note to the presenter to politely call their attention to the fact that I am also a coauthor of the paper they cited , so that they can correct the error the next time they use this presentation . If it was the former and there is a clear intent to deceive or other unethical aspect , I may seriously consider contacting the company to complain .
I find that grad students always wait too long to ask for help , either out of fear of looking " stupid " , or out of inexperience , or out of a misplaced sense of stubbornness . If you 've spent a few weeks on something and you 're thoroughly stuck , then you should absolutely ask someone ( advisor , other students , anyone with knowledge ) . You 'd be surprised at how often you were merely barking up the wrong tree , or just did n't know a very important fact or reference , or just had to reformulate the question differently . All of this takes experience , and that 's what an advisor is supposed to provide .
No . It 's called self-plagiarism . You can of course cite results from your Master 's thesis , and even quote it , but only if you clearly indicate the source . That it was n't published does n't make a difference .
It should be the case that material are not dependent on brand and location , but in many cases , especially the biological sciences , they are . This is wrong and bad , but is also simply the state of the science at present , in areas that have not yet had standards and mechanisms for certifying those standards . For example , something as apparently " simple " as DNA synthesis has no established quality control standards , so when somebody uses DNA supplied by an industrial supplier , which supplier can really make a difference ! The same is notoriously true for reagents as well -- to the point where people will often put down not just the brand but the batch number . So , how do you know when you need to reference the brand name ? There are two answers to this which are , unfortunately , somewhat contradictory : Scientifically , you need to put it down whenever the expected variance in materials from supplier to supplier is might make a significant difference in the results that are observed . If you do n't know whether it will make a difference , you need to put it down . Note that this is also strongly dependent on the size of the effect that you are measuring : if you predict and observe a function with high precision and minimal variance , then the materials are much less likely to matter than if you are observing a 10 % variation in a noisy system and had to apply a significance test to determine that the result actually existed . From a cultural perspective , you need to put the brand name down anywhere that reviewers in your field will expect to see a brand name , whether or not it is appropriate . You can learn this by looking at papers , but it wo n't necessarily tell you what the scientific truth is , because there are often unsupported assumptions embedded in this cultural practice . The conservative approach , of course , is to give brand for the union of both , and that 's a reasonable strategy . As methods progress , however , we should move toward the point where the mechanisms and experimental methods are well enough established that the effects of the incidental experimental circumstances can be minimized ...
Let me answer your question by means of an example . In my on-going research I am using a notion called " Schlichting completion " which is originated from a paper written in German by a mathematician called Schlichting . I ca n't read German , but using a dictionary , I 've found some clues about this notion in his paper . So I cited this paper , even though I have only read about one page of it . The reason is sometimes we have to cite a paper , because some fundamental notion has originated from that paper and we have to give credit to the person who invented that notion . Other reasons for citing papers are : They have a nice review of the subject and/or contain relatively a comprehensive list of references related to the work . They have done some parallel or complementary works . They have some results which are used in my papers . They contain reasons which motivate my work . For example , they ask or suggest a problem which is addressed in my work . They give more examples , applications and/or ideas related to my work . etc. . So you do not have to read all contents of a paper before citing it . But make sure it is relevant , useful , some how necessary , interesting and/or important paper with respect to the work you are presenting in your paper . As a final remark , it is always nice to point out where in the paper you are citing is related to the discussion , for example specify the theorem number , the page number , etc. .
Committee must be convinced that the money will be well used . It would look best if you told you would invest the money to become better at the field of your studies ( buy literature , go to conferences , pay for some courses or certifications , publishing your articles in journals ) . However , trying to look perfect could backfire . In my country it would be reasonable if you wrote that part of the scholarship would be spent on something not related to education . But that depends on the country , culture , traditions , committee members etc. . You must also convince the committee that you will do good in studies . That is why you should mention your study results and achievements . You must convince the committee that you like the field of your studies , you are passionate and will keep working hard . If your studies have helped you at your work , mention that . Also mention your short and long term goals - educational and professional . You can also mention your strongest characteristics and give arguments . ( example : leadership abilities , you lead a student team in project x which was successful . ) The motivation letter as a whole is the answer to the question " Why do you deserve a scholarship ? " edit # 1 : I changed the part about spending scholarship money on something not education related , because of the comment by Trylks .
You asked , Is this normal ? The answer is no , it 's not normal . If two people work on some research together , the " normal " thing is for them to write the paper on it together , and for both to be authors on the paper . It 's possible that you seriously overestimated your contribution to the work and do n't actually deserve authorship . Even in this case , it 's clear you were involved in the research and it 's not normal for your advisor to go ahead and publish it without discussing it with you first . ( When I publish work that involves students whose small contributions do not warrant authorship , I always discuss it with them first . I explain why I do n't think they can be an author , give them a chance to state any disagreement , and also tell them what additional work they could do in order to merit authorship . ) However , the latter ( your contributions did not merit authorship , and your advisor failed to discuss this with you ) is somewhat more forgivable than the former ( your contributions did merit authorship and your advisor published without you anyways ) . ( You do say your advisor is new , and probably inexperienced in advising . ) To answer What do I do ? You should talk to your advisor . This is the only way to really understand which case you are dealing with . You can bring this up in a non-combative way without upsetting your advisor ; for example , you can ask " What do I need to do in order to deserve authorship on future papers ? " This gives your advisor an opening to discuss why he thinks you did n't deserve authorship on the conference paper , and for you to respectfully state your perception of the situation . There may still be a chance for you to get some credit for this work , if you come to agree with his point of view that you did n't do enough to deserve authorship on the conference paper . For example , once you and your advisor have come to an agreement on what it takes to get authorship , you can propose that the two of you work together on an extended version of his conference paper for a journal - on which you will be an author :) Unfortunately , it 's also possible that after this conversation you believe you did deserve authorship , and that your advisor published your joint work without you for no valid reason ( i.e. , committed misconduct ) . In this case , the best advice I can give you is to start looking for another advisor . Finally , the lesson for the future is : talk to your collaborators about authorship early and often .
It depends on what the error is . If the error is the publisher 's fault -- for instance , if they failed to make a correction you specified in the proofs -- then they have an obligation to correct the error . In that case , an email to the editors alerting them of the problem , along with some documentation of the original list of corrections , usually suffices to get the problem fixed . ( This will usually be accompanied by a " publisher 's note " alerting the reader to the correction , although the original article will usually be updated to provide the correct information . ) If the error is something discovered after publication , then the best way to fix this is to prepare a short comment detailing the error , the correction , and its implications on your work . The resulting item is then submitted to the journal as a " comment " ( or , in some cases , an " erratum , " if the journal offers that as a submission option ) . In this sense , it is like any other comment on a paper .
I think : if I inform the professor right after I am aware of the decision , then I may hurt his/her feeling , because he/she was for me ; if I inform him/her later , then the same concern takes place and I can not justify why I procrastinated letting him/her know it . You should n't worry about this at all : Faculty members generally are n't particularly emotionally invested in these decisions . For the students involved , they feel ( and in fact are ) incredibly weighty , but faculty members are involved in dozens of cases per year , so they get some good news and some bad news and it all averages out emotionally . Even if this professor is unusually emotionally invested in the outcome , delaying reporting the result wo n't make it better . They might end up feeling unhappy with the unfairness of life or the poor decision-making skills of whoever turned down your application , but they wo n't be upset with or disappointed in you , so there 's no reason to worry or delay . I 'd recommend just letting your letter writers know when you find out , without stressing out about when or how you tell them . You could just forward the rejection e-mail with a brief note ( such as the " Many thanks for your support ; unfortunately I did not succeed . " suggested by iayork ) .
I also have a very common name ( usually quoted along the lines of " Smith , J. " ) and despite the fact that I have worked and published with two different institutions there has never been a problem assigning all my papers to me personally ( ORCID and other system let you take your institution ( s ) into account ) . As long as there is n't a person with the same first and last name in your institution ( and even then , it usually a couple of clicks to rectify the situation and I am speaking of someone who had to contend with a Joan/John Smith situation ) . My university makes all researchers from post doc onwards keep a list of their publications on their official university homepage , so even google will associate my publications correctly . So if you come across a paper from my old affiliation you can get my current contact data from this . And honestly most subfields are specialised enough that people roughly know that John Smith at institution A is working on a certain topic ( because that 's what your group does ) and John Smith at institution B will probably not have published a particular paper . If people want to talk to your about your results , they will find you , even with a common name .
A common fallacy I observe in students I supervise is that they think they need to spend some time " learning X " before they can use X productively in their research . If you are doing research , the most efficient way to " learn X " ( where X is a programming language , methodology , or subject area , that may be of use in your research ) is almost always to learn it by immediately applying it directly to your research . In other words , I tell my students that if they are " taking time off " to learn something before starting to use it in their work , they are doing it wrong . I would give the same advice to you : instead of taking time off to learn a new skill , start applying it to your research right now . You might be a little slower than usual for a couple of weeks ( because you are n't comfortable with the new skill yet ) , but you 'll still be making forward progress on your research , while learning the new thing . Edit : This applies even more if the thing you are learning is a fundamental skill , and not an " extra " technique . Fundamental skills include things like writing readable code , scientific writing , keeping good notes , etc. . The best way to learn these things is to actively and consciously work on them as you do research . It 's not generally effective to take " time off " to read some books , then go back to doing research and start practicing the things you read about . If it 's a new skill that ca n't be directly applied to your research , then you definitely should n't take time off to learn it . But you might consider spending time on it <URL> . You ca n't spend 100 % of your working time on your primary research anyways ( mental fatigue sets in at some point ) , so spend time learning the new skill when you need a break .
Search the web for it : open archives , search engine , authors webpages , whatever ( you 've probably done that already ... ) Ask the contact author for a copy , which she 'll usually be very happy to provide . I regularly get such requests from other researchers in my field , and it feels very good to know that people are actually interested in your work . If the contact author does n't respond , try the senior author , then other authors . Try your local library . Look into their database , and also ask the librarian there if the document might be available through loan from other libraries . I 've never had much success doing that , but you never know ... Ask a few colleagues at different institutions if they can get it for free ( see <URL> ) . If you have friends at large/famous/well-funded US universities ( Princeton , Harvard , ... ) , they probably have a more comprehensive access than you . If it 's a really important paper , pay for it ! Whatever happens , make sure you make a copy for others in your lab/group , and archive it . When I started my PhD , there was a folder ( the heavy paper type , not the computer type ) labeled " important but hard to find papers " that the group had accumulated along the years . It was the most treasured object in the whole lab .
Complementing the other answers , either in addition to , or apart from , asking for the codes and running them yourself , I do n't think it is a bad idea to explicitly ask the authors , something like this : The standard algorithms for executing ( bla bla bla ) , e.g. as followed in the works of Refs . [ 1-3 ] ( feed these in ) , are suggestive of a standard accuracy in typical algorithms . The current work appears to have bettered the same , which is a strong point in favor of publication . However , the authors should include a comment in the manuscript , mentioning what changes have they implemented to the typical algorithms so highly prevalent , which leads to this enhanced accuracy . My jargon may have to be twisted a bit here , but I think I convey the point . This being a query in the referee report , the authors shall be obligated to feed in the details , and if there is some manipulation involved , it may end up being exposed . Hope that helps :)
If you 're merely referring to someone 's work who you do n't know very well or have n't worked with , I would n't . If they are someone who is well known then it 's likely that people will recognise that they are in the audience and that you are referencing their work . If it is someone you have worked with or someone in your lab , then they usually get a shoutout . For example , a PI presenting work that is primarily done by a grad student or postdoc is likely to point this out and point out the person if they are in the audience . The reason for this is that it is beneficial to that person to be recognised . It encourages others to talk to/network with them because of the work they 've done .
Step 1 : Do n't panic I was in a similar situation halfway through my MSc . I was in a panic , sure that my academic career was in ruins . My supervisor calmed me down , reminded that a negative result was still a result , and and told me that a for a master 's degree , it was not strictly required that I make a scientific contribution or have a publication . In the worst case , in my thesis I would present my negative results , explain why this technique did n't work , and suggest what could be done differently by future researchers . ( Once I was relaxed enough to think clearly , I came up with new things to try , and everything worked out grand . ) I suggest you discuss the " worst case scenario " with your supervisor ; you 'll probably find out it 's not as bad as you think . Remember that this is research : positive results are not guaranteed . Step 2 : Think about why this technique is n't working . I 'm sure you 've learned something about why your technique is n't working . That should give you some ideas for what to try next . If you 're out of ideas , sit a friend down and explain everything to them . The friend does n't need to know anything about machine learning ; they 're just a sounding board . The naive questions they ask may give you ideas . Maybe you need a week off to recharge your batteries . Step 3 : Try something new . Take those new ideas you got in step 2 , and apply them . But now that you 're more experienced , think about how you could find out more quickly if the idea is feasible , so you can change tack again if needed .
When you cite any source , you should give enough that the reader can , at least in principle , read that source for themselves . This information is especially important when you cite something as a source for further information , as it is in your example paper . This paper presents the framework of such a complete phenomenological model _ outlined by Sayeedvafa ( 2002 ) that provides a description of a wide range of the observed behavior , which are both tractable from analytical as well as computational viewpoint . For example , citations of technical reports ( like your first example ) should uniquely identify both the institution and the report , so that the reader knows who and how to ask for a copy . In particular , if the report is available on the web at a stable location , the citation should include a stable URL . If a source is likely to be inaccessible to most readers ( like your second example ) , you should also cite an accessible secondary source that describes the relevant content in detail . ( If you really want to be helpful , the primary source citation should include a pointer like " Cited in [ xxx ] . " ) Otherwise , you 're just asking for the reader 's blind trust that the source has the missing details you claim , or proves the result that you claim , or is as important as you claim , or even exists at all .
Learn how to say NO . It is very easy to say yes to every PC invitation , every paper collaboration , every committee , every this and every that . But this spreads your time too thin and means that you perform far less than optimally at everything you do . Ultimately , work encroaches too much on family time , and life becomes less enjoyable . Also , learn how to teach properly . Take a teaching course or two . It will make your job easier and increase the amount you enjoy teaching . See also : <URL> . Many of my comments there are applicable .
There are many ways to build PhD committee , which depend on the local system ( country , etc. ) and your field . But , here are some general principles that should apply broadly . You need to bring a mix of highly competent yet diverse evaluators , with not too much proximity to yourself or your advisor lest it be thought that you are cherry-picking a partial ( friendly ) jury for your work . Regarding your questions : Is it more important that your advisor already know your committee members or that you do I do n't think it 's a very important part of the decision-making . Certainly , you do n't want the advisor 's best friend ( or yours ! ) , that could make people think you 're scared of unbiased questioning . Is it better to get someone in your discipline or someone doing more related work Here 's one of the factors that play a very important part , for me , in picking committee members . First , all members need to be able to have a good understanding of your work . However , it is good that not all of them are precisely expert in particular field of expertise . It helps to have people from other ( related ) fields , because they will bring a different perspective , and give you the opportunity to highlight not only the very technical details of your work but also its significance for other fields . is the dissertation process supposed to be a chance for you to win people over to your side ? No . It 's good to bring people who do n't necessarily agree with you on everything , but you should also avoid as committee members anyone overly critical of your approach of things , unless you know them well and they can keep it under control and agree to disagree . Otherwise , you risk that person actually coming to your defense to win you over . I have seen defenses being " derailed " ( though all ended well ) by a committee member who was overly argumentative , and it was n't a nice experience for anybody involved .
Are there any techniques I could use to determine whether an essay that I suspect was written by someone else , but not published elsewhere , is a student 's own work ? Ask the student to come to your office hours or a private meeting . Then , say : " I was really impressed by your recent paper , it was an excellent piece of work ! Let 's discuss it some more . " Student who did the work will be able to discuss said work intelligently . Student who did n't do the work is unlikely to be able to carry on an intelligent conversation about said work . ( This still is n't proof of any kind , and you ca n't accuse student of cheating without some evidence - but if you 're lucky , student will at least be spooked enough to never do it again . ) Are there any steps I can take to ensure I do n't receive questionable essays in the first place ? Assign essays that are a few steps beyond , but still closely tied to , what 's been discussed in class , such that somebody who was n't in the class will not be able to produce the kind of essay you 're expecting ( the effectiveness of this depends very much on the subject matter ) .
In general , there is no such widespread requirement or expectation anywhere in academia . ( Perhaps a particularly unusual advisor might have such an expectation , but even then , I doubt it . ) If you note the citations of research papers , a decent number of them will cite master 's theses -- some of my papers certainly do ! And if I can submit a paper to a major journal that cites a master 's thesis , why would n't another student 's master 's thesis ?
end question
start question
What to do if a colleague is reviewing an unchanged paper that has been rejected before on my recommendation ?
If you were asked to re-review an " unchanged " manuscript there are a number of things you can do ( e.g. , <URL> ) . The issue is that this is not the case . You are no longer part of the review process . The first thing you should do is STOP . The behavior you have engaged in so far has been completely unethical and a clear violation of every reviewer agreement I have ever seen . Your colleague should never have told you about the paper under review . You should not have mention that you reviewed a similar paper in the past . Neither of you should have mentioned authors or the title . The actual manuscripts should never have been shared and/or compared To a lesser extent , it is not even clear why you still have your copy of the manuscript . The Committee on Publication Ethics ( COPE ) provides <URL> which can be thought of as best practice . These include : respect the confidentiality of peer review and not reveal any details of a manuscript or its review , during or after the peer-review process , beyond those that are released by the journal not involve anyone else in the review of a manuscript , including junior researchers they are mentoring , without first obtaining permission from the journal ; the names of any individuals who have helped them with the review should be included with the returned review so that they are associated with the manuscript in the journal 's records and can also receive due credit for their efforts . keep all manuscript and review details confidential .
No , you should probably not contact the Associate Editor . First off , referees do not generally make decisions about accepting or rejecting a paper . Referees make recommendations to associate editors and editors , and they , in turn , make decisions . Thus , the associate editor who was cc ' ed on the email to you is probably the decision-maker who read the reports from the referees and decided to turn down the paper . This person also knows who the referees were , and is in a situation where this input can be appropriately scaled by the referees review history , level of experience , etc. . For what its worth , I consider it bad form when refereeing to make my recommendation known to the author . I give an honest assessment , describe my issues , and then make my recs to the editors in the appropriate fields . ( I also make it my personal policy for manuscripts , at least , to never say anything that I would n't say to the authors face ) There may be check boxes in the reviews that you are n't privy to . Even your reviewer who seemed to recommend acceptance may not have been all that enthusiastic about it , or may not have thought the paper to be very important . You should make use of the feedback you got , which suggested that there was too much similarity with another paper of yours . You should make the paper clearer as to what the new findings are . Take a step back and determine if , given the magnitude of this extension , is this worthy of a full paper , or perhaps the field would be better served by some sort of short report . Then pick the appropriate venue for publication . There are some legitimate cases where you might drop the editor a note . Certainly , if something " very wrong " happened during the review process , but that does n't seem to be the case here . My experience is that this is rare , and most reviews are fine . Your most productive action at this point would be to discuss the reviews with a mentor .
I would recommend submitting , because there is a great degree of uncertainty in when you will receive a response , and even with a fast response , your allowed revision time will likely be long enough to extend beyond the vacation time in any case . If things more unexpectedly quickly , you can ask for an extension and will likely face little problem in obtaining one . If you do this , however , you have the following responsibilities : Make sure that you at least monitor your email when you are around , so that you can respond if necessary . In the two-week period when you will be unable to check your email , make sure you have a vacation auto-response message set up .
It 's definitely OK to name one or a few journals you would consider more appropriate for this paper . Some web interfaces for reviewers even have that as a built-in option . One thing I encourage you to do is to use the journal 's publication criteria to back up your opinion . These may have been given to you along with the paper , or they can be found on the journal 's website . If , for example , the journal X 's guidelines say : Articles should be of high scientific quality , originality , significance , and conceptual novelty that are of interest to the wide and diverse contemporary readership of X then it 's good practice , in your recommendation to the editor , to evaluate the manuscript following these criteria . For example , you could say : The manuscript is technically and methodologically sound , and clearly written . The conclusions are , in large part ( minor exceptions noted below ) , supported by the results . However , it seems to me that this detailed study of knee injuries sustained in wingsuit accidents may not be of interest to many of the reader of The International Journal of Transportation Research .
Two things are unclear about your question Is there anything I can do that does n't violate the confidentiality of the peer review process to address the problem ? : What is the goal of any intervention ? Why do you think that anything should be done ? If , for example , you aim for retraction , I guess this could be difficult . You may go for this on the ground that you can prove that the authors were aware of the flaws you pointed out and submitted the paper knowing that there was something wrong . The journal may have some rule that the authors have to certify that the results are true to the best of their knowledge . If this really is so , you may have some angle of attack . If you aim for correction by the authors , it could also be difficult . However , you could consider writing a letter to the editor , pointing out what is wrong and then ask if the journal would publish such a letter . Some journals I know have such formats . You could also do follow-up research on the same topic and write a paper yourself where you refer to the paper with flaws and describe what wrong there . For the second question , it sounds like you feel that " What 's published and peer-reviewed should be true . " While this resonates with me , it 's not something that is close to true now and probably never will be . Mistakes happen . You may then trust in the scientific community that the flawed paper will be perceived as such in the long run and find peace with this particular paper . Finally , the premise that confidentiality of the peer review process may permit some actions is not totally clear . As I wrote in a comment , I asked a <URL> and got very different responses .
I had a situation like this come up once , where one person did an extensive analysis that turned out not to be particularly useful , so there was no point in including any details of it in the paper . However , we did feel that having the analysis done did lead ( indirectly ) to a better understanding of what we were studying . Moreover , we also felt that the person who did the analysis deserved some measure of credit in the final paper . So we put a very short mention ( one to three sentences ) in the manuscript , just stating that we had done the analysis , but that it had not led to any useful conclusions , for such-and-such reasons . Since the paper included this , it was unquestionably appropriate to include the person who had done the bulk of that analysis as an author . I would suggest that you could do something similar , so your colleague could unambiguously be considered an author .
Cite the journal name that was used at the time of publication . For example , the British Medical Journal officially changed title to BMJ in 1988 . Cite articles from 1987 and earlier as Br Med J , not BMJ . ( Source : <URL> . )
I 'm afraid I have bad news : Unless you are writing algorithms for entirely new scientific areas , you can safely assume that every algorithm anyone can come up without being familiar with the literature is either ( i ) already known , or ( ii ) inferior to already known algorithms . In other words , since you do n't seem to be familiar with the literature in your field , I would think that the chances for your algorithm to be new and better are slim . It may of course be new , but inferior to existing methods , in which case it 's not useful . ( The reason for this is that people who are familiar with the literature , have been thinking about these issues for a long time , and know about the limitations of the existing methods , are most likely to come up with improvements . It is unlikely that people who are not familiar with an area waltz in , come up with something , and it turns out to be better than what all of the experts have come up with . It probably happens every once in a while , but it 's unlikely . ) This does n't help you find out whether your algorithm has been found so far . But it helps you determine whether it 's worthwhile pursuing this further -- which it is likely not . You are probably better off spending your time reading the literature in the field to understand what others have been doing , what the limitations of existing algorithms are , etc. .
You can set up an <URL> that will do exactly what you want . From Google 's <URL> : How do I get notified when a particular paper is cited ? Search for the title of your paper , e.g. , " Anti de Sitter space and holography " ; click on the " Cited by " link at the bottom of the search result ; and then click on the envelope icon in the left sidebar of the search results page . An even more effective way can be to set up a google scholar <URL> and select " Follow new citations " from the appropriate checkbox .
You asked , Is this normal ? The answer is no , it 's not normal . If two people work on some research together , the " normal " thing is for them to write the paper on it together , and for both to be authors on the paper . It 's possible that you seriously overestimated your contribution to the work and do n't actually deserve authorship . Even in this case , it 's clear you were involved in the research and it 's not normal for your advisor to go ahead and publish it without discussing it with you first . ( When I publish work that involves students whose small contributions do not warrant authorship , I always discuss it with them first . I explain why I do n't think they can be an author , give them a chance to state any disagreement , and also tell them what additional work they could do in order to merit authorship . ) However , the latter ( your contributions did not merit authorship , and your advisor failed to discuss this with you ) is somewhat more forgivable than the former ( your contributions did merit authorship and your advisor published without you anyways ) . ( You do say your advisor is new , and probably inexperienced in advising . ) To answer What do I do ? You should talk to your advisor . This is the only way to really understand which case you are dealing with . You can bring this up in a non-combative way without upsetting your advisor ; for example , you can ask " What do I need to do in order to deserve authorship on future papers ? " This gives your advisor an opening to discuss why he thinks you did n't deserve authorship on the conference paper , and for you to respectfully state your perception of the situation . There may still be a chance for you to get some credit for this work , if you come to agree with his point of view that you did n't do enough to deserve authorship on the conference paper . For example , once you and your advisor have come to an agreement on what it takes to get authorship , you can propose that the two of you work together on an extended version of his conference paper for a journal - on which you will be an author :) Unfortunately , it 's also possible that after this conversation you believe you did deserve authorship , and that your advisor published your joint work without you for no valid reason ( i.e. , committed misconduct ) . In this case , the best advice I can give you is to start looking for another advisor . Finally , the lesson for the future is : talk to your collaborators about authorship early and often .
Regardless of whether it is homework or any other sort of technical document , the correct date to put on a technical document is the date of its most recent revision . If the history is important , other dates can be added as well ( e.g. the submitted/revised/accepted dates on some journal papers ) . As for your professors never saying anything ... they likely had no reason or even ability to discriminate between the different systems you used to date , and it likely did not matter for the purposes of the class .
How should you talk about the weakness ? Honestly . This does n't mean you need to dwell on it or undermine all the rest of this talk around your point . But if you know about a serious weakness , you should n't be afraid to acknowledge it when necessary . Yes , your work will appear less awesome as a result . But which of these two scenarios would you rather have ? You show the work you did , acknowledge the weakness , and discuss how you think it would be best to improve the work in the future in order to achieve the overall goals . You have n't solved the problem , but you 've taken a useful step . You claim your work has no weaknesses , and when people inevitably notice , they think that you are either too foolish to notice the weakness or too insecure and self-important to acknowledge it . Your paper was accepted , despite the reviewers pointing out the weakness , and that means people must find something of value in it . Focus on the value that is still there despite the weakness , and let that be the point on which you build .
The first two kinds of questions should be asked in the course 's public discussion area so that the answers will benefit all students . Since you 've used " all the other tools " in the course , perhaps you 've done that . I suggest a concerned phone call to the department chair . If the professor is not present in the course at all , ask , " Is Dr. X OK ? He has n't been in the course in several weeks . " If he 's around , but ignoring you , ask , " Do you know whether I 've somehow offended Dr. X ? He has n't answered any of my questions in several weeks . " The point is to give the chair a chance to make corrections without having said anything like " ignoring me . " If it has already been several weeks , I 'd suggest doing this very soon . Be as specific as possible about dates when the instructor stopped responding , how other work such as quizzes is handled , etc. .
I would like to know how much he can write about my mental health , also considering that the academic work did n't suffer at all from this . According to <URL> of organizations : " The Americans with Disabilities Act recognizes that employers may sometimes have to disclose medical information about applicants or employees . " But also they claim : " The basic legal principle that employers should follow is not to reveal medical information about you unless there is a legitimate business reason to do so . But because that standard is fairly vague , there are laws which more specifically protect the privacy of your medical records , such as the Americans with Disabilities Act , the law which makes it illegal to discriminate on the basis of an employee 's disability . " For UK you may find more information on <URL> website and <URL> . If you ask me I would say that it is not actually ethical to write about your mental health if your job did n't suffer from that . For some careers there are some health restrictions ( e.g. pilots , surgeons , etc. ) but I 've never seen that for academic work . More to say , I know people who have GAD , OCD , etc. and they have never had significant issues in academic life . But I also have to say that people usually do n't take year off because of mental health issue , especially not for GAD . From your post I ca n't see if the GAD is a main reason of one year off . If it is n't the main reason then I do n't understand why your supervisor has a need to write it in recommendation letter . But , if GAD is your main reason why you needed to stay away from University than I do n't understand how your mental health did n't affect your productivity when it is even though you continued to work . Whatever the case is , I would n't like that my supervisor writes " a mental issue " because for me it sounds serious and Generalized Anxiety Disorder actually does n't sound due to prevalence " <URL> " Shortly , I do n't think he should write about your mental health when you obviously continued to work . It is your private information , there are some laws about it and I am worried that you will be discriminate because of that . My advice : Talk with your supervisor , find out why he thinks that he is forced to write it in recommendation letter ( that is really strange ) and please look more into the laws and send them to him if it is needed .
Complementing the other answers , either in addition to , or apart from , asking for the codes and running them yourself , I do n't think it is a bad idea to explicitly ask the authors , something like this : The standard algorithms for executing ( bla bla bla ) , e.g. as followed in the works of Refs . [ 1-3 ] ( feed these in ) , are suggestive of a standard accuracy in typical algorithms . The current work appears to have bettered the same , which is a strong point in favor of publication . However , the authors should include a comment in the manuscript , mentioning what changes have they implemented to the typical algorithms so highly prevalent , which leads to this enhanced accuracy . My jargon may have to be twisted a bit here , but I think I convey the point . This being a query in the referee report , the authors shall be obligated to feed in the details , and if there is some manipulation involved , it may end up being exposed . Hope that helps :)
Send him a message Even if you think you know the only truth , maybe there is something you do n't know about this award . If there is no response in . . let 's say 48 hours , let 's go to phase 2 EDIT : concerning the timing , @O . R.Mapper is right , if he is on a vacation ... bad luck . Send a message to the committee They gave the award , so explain the situation , and ask them to put on their website the name of the winner for each year . Explain why you want this . If the commitee is reacting ( if not , will be hard : / ) Send a ( still ) polite mail to the cuprit and tell him he MUST remove what he puts online . No response ? let 's go to the last part Write to his university Even if you think they might not care , it 's still a graduate student , it 's bad for the reputation of the university to have graduate student with a bad behaviors . EDIT : as said by @CaptainEmacs , do NOT to accuse someone , even if you 're sure it is the truth . Tell politely that you think he might have mistaken , that is all . I think that 's the proper way to do it .
Warning : personal opinion . I view conferences that regularly shift submission deadlines as a little suspect . You 're right that this happens in CS conferences , and it soon becomes pointless because everyone expects the extension ( " <URL> " ) . But your estimate of 80 % is rather off . Almost none of the ( many ) conferences I submit to have deadline extensions for submission of the full paper . And do n't underestimate the level of pleading that goes on . People will always ask for an extension if they have even a smidgen of hope that the pleading will work . It 's only when a conference takes a firm stand for many years that people stop asking .
Are there any techniques I could use to determine whether an essay that I suspect was written by someone else , but not published elsewhere , is a student 's own work ? Ask the student to come to your office hours or a private meeting . Then , say : " I was really impressed by your recent paper , it was an excellent piece of work ! Let 's discuss it some more . " Student who did the work will be able to discuss said work intelligently . Student who did n't do the work is unlikely to be able to carry on an intelligent conversation about said work . ( This still is n't proof of any kind , and you ca n't accuse student of cheating without some evidence - but if you 're lucky , student will at least be spooked enough to never do it again . ) Are there any steps I can take to ensure I do n't receive questionable essays in the first place ? Assign essays that are a few steps beyond , but still closely tied to , what 's been discussed in class , such that somebody who was n't in the class will not be able to produce the kind of essay you 're expecting ( the effectiveness of this depends very much on the subject matter ) .
I would say the responsibility of the reviewer is to judge the content of the paper . So , checking if the format of the journal/conference has been followed is not part of this job . Very large and obvious deviations can be pointed out , but for example spotting that the font of the caption is in size 11 and not 10 is not part of a reviewers task .
Step 1 : Do n't panic I was in a similar situation halfway through my MSc . I was in a panic , sure that my academic career was in ruins . My supervisor calmed me down , reminded that a negative result was still a result , and and told me that a for a master 's degree , it was not strictly required that I make a scientific contribution or have a publication . In the worst case , in my thesis I would present my negative results , explain why this technique did n't work , and suggest what could be done differently by future researchers . ( Once I was relaxed enough to think clearly , I came up with new things to try , and everything worked out grand . ) I suggest you discuss the " worst case scenario " with your supervisor ; you 'll probably find out it 's not as bad as you think . Remember that this is research : positive results are not guaranteed . Step 2 : Think about why this technique is n't working . I 'm sure you 've learned something about why your technique is n't working . That should give you some ideas for what to try next . If you 're out of ideas , sit a friend down and explain everything to them . The friend does n't need to know anything about machine learning ; they 're just a sounding board . The naive questions they ask may give you ideas . Maybe you need a week off to recharge your batteries . Step 3 : Try something new . Take those new ideas you got in step 2 , and apply them . But now that you 're more experienced , think about how you could find out more quickly if the idea is feasible , so you can change tack again if needed .
end question
start question
In single-blind peer-review , can you reveal your identity without the editor 's consent ?
I would think that it 's a bad idea to open the possibility of referees communicating with authors , since this opens the possibility of authors ' influencing referees , compromising the process . Of course , this is not to say that there are n't some positive possibilities , but the conflict-of-interest criterion seems to me in this case to be clearly manifest . That is , it should be understood , implicitly or explicitly , that referees will remain anonymous " in perpetuity " , so that there is no hint or possibility that authors could communicate with them or influence them . E.g. , either overt or subtle invitations from authors to a referee to communicate ( and get some credit for the paper , maybe co-authorship , etc. , as discussed around here some time back ... ) would be understood in advance to fail absolutely . Thus , editors who discover referees willing to engage in such would probably regretfully stop asking them to referee , since if such activity became known it would seriously damage the reputation of the journal ... if only in principle , but " principle " would seem to be the point ...
Scholarpedia has adapted many of the processes of a peer-reviewed journal . However , it is still a kind of encyclopedia and not a research journal at all . Note that I 'm not making any kind of judgment or evaluation in the previous sentence : the main page of the site reads Welcome to Scholarpedia , the peer-reviewed open-access encyclopedia , where knowledge is curated by communities of experts . So you seem to be asking : " Should I publish my paper in an encyclopedia rather than a research journal ? " I think that 's a kind of strange question : have you really written something which lies ambiguously between a research paper and an encyclopedia article ? The above is not a rhetorical question : please let us know ! It is also possible that I have fixated too much on " scholarpedia " and it is not the type wiki publication that you really intended . If so , please let us know . It would be helpful to give at least one specific example of the kind of " peer-reviewed wiki " you have in mind as a plausible alternative to a research journal . Added : @MHH has helpfully clarified that the OP is probably talking about a <URL> , or what in my field would be called a " survey paper " . ( The word " review " was also used at least twice in a different sense in the OP 's question , and that was enough to confuse me . ) I must begin by admitting that review/survey papers are rare in my field ( mathematics ) , and that they would be written by PhD students is almost unprecedented . So I am almost at the point of wanting to delete my answer for lack of understanding and relevant expertise . However , let me first try this : it seems to me that a review paper should be published in a research journal if it contains original research : i.e. , some kind of synthesis , analysis , new perspectives , helpful simplifications , and so forth are being added . Of course " original research " is exactly what is not wanted in an encyclopedia article , although I do n't see why this would necessarily be the case for all peer-reviewed wikis . So going more from general academic common sense than specific insight ( i.e. , caveat emptor ) , I would say that this should be the deciding factor between publishing a survey paper in a research journal or in a wiki . Let me further say that most or all of the advantages cited by publication in a wiki can be achieved by publishing in certain kinds of research journals : " free of charge publication , open access for all " certainly . Many electronic journals do not advertise hard " character limits " , but of course there must be some kind of upper bound must exist , right ? No one wants a 5000 page survey of the literature .
This is tricky , because in the US there really is no standard/universal handling for this sort of situation . It 's probably going to be different at every department you are thinking of applying to . With that said , there are a few common outcomes , to wit : Some programs will simply say no - you must pay in full at the time of both the original application , and re-application . Some programs offer fee waivers with a variety of requirements . Some programs will waive fee for US citizens with demonstrated need , some programs waive fees for people who participated in certain programs ( often which target helping certain groups get to and succeed in college ) . Some offer waivers/reductions to countries where the relatively reasonable fee to US citizens is just an absurd expense ( especially ones where $ 75 is 2-4 + weeks of average salary ) . This does not apply to every country , however . I suppose it 's technically possible that a program will allow you to pay the fee once and reapply the next year at no additional cost ... but I 've really never heard of that and I 'd be pleasantly surprised if any program you were looking at would offer you that option . I 'd suggest you contact a few of your target programs right away and ask their graduate coordinator what your options specific to the fees are . That 's really the only way I can think of to get a real answer that 's certain enough to help you decide on what to do . But barring answers from your target programs , I would absolutely suggest that you do not simply rely on them being willing to let you reapply at no extra cost or automatically not pay the fee - or even to waive the fee more than once . They are not required to do this by any external rules or laws , and being a foreign citizen or having limited finances are not protected/privileged groups under most US laws . Get direct answers from schools you care about , and then decide for yourself if you absolutely can not afford to apply two years in a row if it comes to that .
The challenge here is seems to be to ensure that if the reviewers do stumble across your thesis , then the failure mode will be penetrating blinding rather than accusations of plagiarism . It is my belief that with an " extract " paper like this , the thesis should be cited in any case . In most cases , there will be some connection to other portions of the thesis that could motivate such a citation ( e.g. , a motivation or an application ) . I also think that it is good to explicitly acknowledge the relationship to the thesis , e.g. , " This manuscript is based on work also presented in [ cite ] " , though the customs of your field may differ . Then you can appropriately blind the citation to the thesis , e.g. , " Ph.D. thesis , blinded for review . " This makes the relationship clear without violating blinding . At that point , you are preserving blinding to the best of your ability , and while a reviewer can certainly try to penetrate blinding if they want , you certainly wo n't run into any problems with misunderstanding about plagiarism .
Letters are interesting to write because they still have to be " complete " but the definition of " complete " is different ( and you often ca n't rely on throwing citations at the problem because there may be a limit there too ) . You need someone else to read it . Another PhD student in the group ? A postdoc ? They should read it as a reviewer rather than as a coauthor and point out any glaring omissions . You would of course return the favour at some point .
Anybody can submit to almost any journal ( there are some out there where some sort of existing membership is a pre-requisite , but they are rare exceptions ) . There is , however , an additional barrier that an author has to overcome if they are not known and/or they are not affiliated with some reputable institution . In essence , peer review of a journal submission is attempting to evaluate credibility of the arguments presented in the paper . Authors who are known in the community that they are submitting to or who are coming from highly reputed institutions have an inherent advantage in that they already have some credibility simply through their reputation or affiliation . An author who does not have these advantages will naturally be faced with more skepticism about their statements , particularly when dealing with an experimental work where the paper can not contain every relevant fragment of information about the work being reported . What this means , in practice , is that when a submitted paper has flaws , an unknown and/or unaffiliated author is more likely to get rejected whereas a author drawing on prior credibility is more likely to get asked to make revisions . This might not be ideal , but pragmatically it is fairly reasonable : there is a lot of really bad stuff submitted to journals , and the quality of a submission is typically fairly well correlated with author and institution . So how should an unknown and/or unaffiliated author go about publishing ? First off , it 's very useful to get feedback on pre-submission drafts from trusted colleagues , so that the initial submission can be as good as possible . Second , it 's rare that any major development is contained within a single paper . Rather than trying to publish " the one big paper , " one can build up credibility by publishing a sequence of manuscripts , starting in still-credible but less prestigious journals . For example , if the work is about a general new principle , there could first be a paper proposing the principle and analyzing its implications , followed by another paper making experimental tests of some of those implications , followed by a bigger paper pulling it all together an demonstrating the general power of the principle with more diverse experiments . These are all perfectly reasonable papers -- no <URL> needed , just an understanding that most significant ideas usually result in more than one journal paper worth of work , and some idea of how to segment the work sensibly .
The main point of a PhD is to learn how to be a scientist . Involved in this is to focus on the work that needs to be done but also to pick up the necessary skill to solve the problem . As an advisor , I would get nervous if a student kept moving into new areas without a plan as to what these would be useful for . So from that perspective , if a student made good progress on the research , diversions would not be a concern ; without progress , it would be a problem . Where you stand in this is not for anyone to say except based on a discussion between you and your advisor . During my own PhD , I spent a fair amount learning tools that were only of marginal use in my own work . I am now very happy I did because as now a long-time faculty member , I have come to realize that the time I had as a PhD student to immerse in topics , is hard if not impossible to recreate after the PhD . I therefore advise PhD students to use their time wisely since the tools they learn during their PhD make up the core of their future toolbox . Contacts with other researchers and research directions is a similar issue in my mind . BUT , I always had in my mind that I needed to show progress and stay with my own research tasks as a priority . Balancing between the core work and forays into other areas is a necessity . From your question , it does not sound as if you have a good balance and I therefore think you need to discuss the thesis work more with your advisor to make sure it is clear and structured to you . Only then will you be able to see your won progress and judge when you are on track .
I think the answer is yes , but you should aim higher : the line you 're drawing in the sand is uncomfortably close to you and that 's causing more work for you than is necessary . Namely , trying to put the essential content of your papers on your own website for the purpose of freely disseminating your work seems wrongheaded : instead , you should be putting your own papers on your webpage and/or freely available preprint servers like the <URL> . In order to do so fully legally ( which is not necessarily the same as ethically : it is possible to feel that the law is unethical , in which case the ethical thing to do could be to break the law , but be willing to live with the consequences of that ) you need to arrange this as a condition of the publication . This is absolutely feasible with all of the major scientific publishing companies . How common the deal is seems to depend on the individual journal and on the standards of the field . In my field ( mathematics ) , I do not know of a reputable journal which would not allow its authors to post on the arxiv . ( Once I dealt with a journal which initially asked me to remove the copy of the paper from my homepage . After some back and forth , the editor in chief told me that it was absolutely okay for me to do that and he was surprised that the editorial assistant had said otherwise . In retrospect , this was a clear warning that I was dealing with a shady journal . ) I gather that in some scientific fields , there are " popular " journals which do not allow authors to put papers on the arxiv ( or , alas , there may not be an arxiv or clear equivalent ) or -- gasp ! -- on their own homepage . I find this strange , because in my understanding in most scientific fields the majority of journals are owned by Elsevier , Springer , Science Direct ... -- i.e. , by enormous multinational , multibillion dollar publishing magnates which are not renowned for their generosity or enthusiasm for open access . But when you publish a paper in ( e.g. ) mathematics in one of these journals , the copyright notice that you sign allows you to post the paper on the arxiv and your own webpage . I find it hard to believe that the copyright notices for different journals by the same publisher would be so different on this point . So the battle has already been won in these hardest places . If there are trade journals specific to your field which are less generous to authors than the evil empires I 've mentioned above : well , if you care about this sort of thing , do n't publish there . In terms of putting copies of published papers on the arxiv , in light of the comments above let me share my understanding . What you publish should not include any journal-specific formatting : it should not look like a Journal X publication . As a general practice , most authors upload to the arxiv before submission , and then only upload a new copy if some kind of significant , content-related change was made . In particular , if an error was pointed out , then it would be good to correct that . If the journal did copyediting for you -- which is not the same as directing you to do copyediting after acceptance -- then maybe it is best all around not to incorporate those changes in the freely available version : on the one hand , aside from formatting , this is the only place in which the journal itself is contributing to the paper ; on the other hand , going back and manually incorporating the copyediting for an entire paper could take some time and effort . To respond to what was said in the comments : in my opinion , whether your revisions were motivated by a referee report should not have any bearing on whether you want to change the freely available version . If you are making changes in response to a referee report , then including that information in a " comments " section on the paper would be a classy move . But as a frequent author and referee , I feel strongly that the changes you made in response to the referee report are not proprietary to the journal in any way ( or in any other way from the rest of the content of the paper ) . Added : The task of checking out policies of publishers and journals with regard to preprints is not something that an individual researcher needs to address from scratch : there are several online repositories of information about this . <URL> .
You can use to search for phrases in the title ( no space after the colon ) and similarly you can use to search in the body .
" ... a quick - one , two , you 're published ! " That 's not how it works . What works is : Make it a publicly available preprint ( online repositories like arXiv , a preprint series of some institute , university , maybe via your personal website or blog ... ) . Submit to some peer reviewed journal that complies with papers that are available as preprints ( and there are journals that do not cost you anything ; you will not get " open access " for free , but in many cases the preprint can stay freely available ) . Put the paper in your CV and add " submitted for publication " . Then the paper will be visible and checkable and it also shows that you know how scientific publishing works .
You might get rejected without review . I would write the Program Chair now , explain your accidental submission of the wrong version of the manuscript , and ask for permission to resubmit the correct version .
There is no consistent terminolgoy in this respect . <URL> , a database for publisher 's pre-print policies and probably as close to an authority as you can get on this matter , <URL> : The terms pre-print and post-print are used to mean different things by different people . This can cause some confusion and ambiguity . One usage of the term pre-print is to describe the first draft of the article - before peer-review , even before any contact with a publisher . This use is common amongst academics for whom the key modification of an article is the peer-review process . Another use of the term pre-print is for the finished article , reviewed and amended , ready and accepted for publication - but separate from the version that is type-set or formatted by the publisher . This use is more common amongst publishers , for whom the final and significant stage of modification to an article is the arrangement of the material for putting to print . [ ... ] To try to clarify the situation , this listing characterises pre-prints as being the version of the paper before peer review and post-prints as being the version of the paper after peer-review , with revisions having been made . Publisher 's policies on what authors may post on a preprint server vary a lot and Sherpa/Romeo maintains an overview over these policies . However , authors may not adhere to these policies or make the most of them when publishing their papers . Thus it is usually not possible to tell which version of the paper is published on a preprint repository . When you want to publish your own papers , I recommend to check both , <URL> and the copyright agreement -- most of them are suprisingly human-readable .
Many ( most ? ) academic papers include a brief acknowledgment section somewhere ( the location is not standard ) . In this section it is frequent to acknowledge help by the referees . One can equally well acknowledge comments by referees of previous versions of the paper . For the sake of clarity it seems best to mention that one is thanking the referee of the previous version . E.g. if I were refereeing the new version , reading We are grateful for the help provided by the referee . is ambiguous : does this refer to a previous referee , or am I being thanked in advance for my help ? ( That 's not so good . ) Clearer would be something like This version of the paper takes into account helpful comments provided by the ( or " a " ) referee of a previous version . If the paper gets accepted in the second journal , one could change to something like We are grateful for helpful comments from multiple referees on several versions of the paper . Is it academically necessary ? I 'm not sure it 's ever strictly necessary to acknowledge an anonymous referee -- it seems to me that a situation in which it 's vitally necessary to acknowledge someone is a situation in which an anonymous acknowledgment would be insufficient . ( Moreover , the way I have always understood it is that referee comments are " being given " to the authors of the paper . ) If you feel that a referee 's contributions merit coauthorship , ( take a deep breath first ; this opens a can of worms ) you should discuss that with the editor . However , if you got direct intellectual help from the referee and not just helpful remarks -- i.e. , if the referee contributed some part of the intellectual content of the paper -- then I would certainly recommend documenting that rather than assuming the credit for yourself .
I agree with the other answers here . In particular , I follow the advice of @jakebeal where he suggests to put the acknowledgments in earlier on so you can account for the space it takes up . I would like to raise an additional consideration for putting acknowledgments in earlier on : when your funding agency requires you to do so . For example , in the US , certain Department of Defense ( DoD ) components ( such as DARPA ) require the authors of any publications ( or manuscripts to be submitted for publication ) stemming from funded research work to include an appropriate " distribution statement " at some location in the paper . In my subfield , authors typically put this statement in the acknowledgment section . You might ask : Why not just add the distribution statement in after the paper is accepted for publication ? Well , manuscripts to be submitted for publication must first be " released " for publication by the DoD , and if the distribution statement is not listed in the paper , then your paper is not approved for " public release . " ( You can get into trouble with the DoD if you try to submit your paper prior to obtaining public release approval ) . Bottom line : Check with your funding agency to see if they have any constraints on the acknowledgment section ( or first-page footnote , etc. ) of your paper , and at what stage of the publication process it is required .
On the one hand , it shows that you are engaged in this necessary part of scientific research that is peer-review . That 's one of the major reasons why people list it . If your CV is being viewed as part of a performance review or hiring decision , or even for awards , this constitutes " service to the community " and indicates that you 're a good citizen . It 's a noisy signal for the reasons you indicate , and so it does n't carry a whole lot of weight compared to things like technical committee memberships and leadership roles , but it 's part of the larger picture . Moreover , for more junior researchers who have n't yet had the chance to take on leadership roles , this is a good signal of service .
I ca n't think of how an excellent letter of recommendation from a professor in an unrelated field of study could hurt you . Perhaps if it was the only ( excellent ) letter of recommendation , maybe then . But you mentioned you have an excellent letter from your employer and can ( I assume ) get at least one more good letter from someone else , so I think you are in a good position . You are right , his letter of recommendation would not be about your technical skills related to EE , but it would mention your characteristics , work ethics , teamwork ability in a very good light . Research writing course is also not that far away from EE . It shows you are more diverse than the stereotypical programmer or engineer . You worked with this specific professor for 2 semesters , he could give you an outstanding letter of recommendation . I think his letter will give you more than any single average/solid letter from other professors .
You could mention the people with whom you discussed in the acknowledgements " thanks X and Y for helpful / ... discussions " and cite the conference in the text . To cite it in the correct style , I would recomment that you contact the editorial office and ask . I once asked about the style of referencing a thesis and recieved an answer very fast , so this is the safest way in my opinion .
( This answer is adapted from my comment below Marc Cleason 's answer ) In the spirit of the pledge , this professor could put a banner saying in substance " I do not review for Elsevier journal , so if you are an author hoping for me to review your paper , submit to other publisher 's journals " . One important thing about such a pledge is that it is useless if it is silent ; this is an initial observation by Tim Gowers that lead to the pledge . Now that 14000 people have signed it , each one of them is somewhat hidden in the crowd , so making this kind of statements on one 's web page is a way to make one 's pledge more public , and to give the movement some momentum . Here , a prominent professor has also the possibility to influence the submissions of his or her colleagues , which is a good bonus .
Pick someone else if it is n't already too late . The actual answer to your question is this : It is far better to have a good letter from a faculty member who is relatively unknown than a bad letter from someone they recognize and respect . In fact , the latter is probably the worst thing that could happen . If it is already too late , i.e. you have asked Professor X , he 's agreed , and you 've sent him the material ( which is probably an online link these days ) then work hard to make writing the letter easy . Put together the following information and send it fast : Include your student number . Remind him which of his classes you have taken , and when . How did you distinguish yourself in those classes ? How would you describe yourself ? What are your strengths ? What are your weaknesses ? He is going to have to answer those questions when he writes your reference , so the more details the better ; but these must be things your referee knows himself . What are some of your academic and nonacademic accomplishments that he may not remember ? What makes him particularly qualified to write a letter for you ? That is , why should the recipient of the letter value it over a letter from someone else ? This goes in an email that says , " Thank you very much for agreeing to write a reference for me on very short notice . I hope the following will be of use to you when you write it . "
You asked , Is this normal ? The answer is no , it 's not normal . If two people work on some research together , the " normal " thing is for them to write the paper on it together , and for both to be authors on the paper . It 's possible that you seriously overestimated your contribution to the work and do n't actually deserve authorship . Even in this case , it 's clear you were involved in the research and it 's not normal for your advisor to go ahead and publish it without discussing it with you first . ( When I publish work that involves students whose small contributions do not warrant authorship , I always discuss it with them first . I explain why I do n't think they can be an author , give them a chance to state any disagreement , and also tell them what additional work they could do in order to merit authorship . ) However , the latter ( your contributions did not merit authorship , and your advisor failed to discuss this with you ) is somewhat more forgivable than the former ( your contributions did merit authorship and your advisor published without you anyways ) . ( You do say your advisor is new , and probably inexperienced in advising . ) To answer What do I do ? You should talk to your advisor . This is the only way to really understand which case you are dealing with . You can bring this up in a non-combative way without upsetting your advisor ; for example , you can ask " What do I need to do in order to deserve authorship on future papers ? " This gives your advisor an opening to discuss why he thinks you did n't deserve authorship on the conference paper , and for you to respectfully state your perception of the situation . There may still be a chance for you to get some credit for this work , if you come to agree with his point of view that you did n't do enough to deserve authorship on the conference paper . For example , once you and your advisor have come to an agreement on what it takes to get authorship , you can propose that the two of you work together on an extended version of his conference paper for a journal - on which you will be an author :) Unfortunately , it 's also possible that after this conversation you believe you did deserve authorship , and that your advisor published your joint work without you for no valid reason ( i.e. , committed misconduct ) . In this case , the best advice I can give you is to start looking for another advisor . Finally , the lesson for the future is : talk to your collaborators about authorship early and often .
end question
start question
Can post-doc researchers write a recommendation letter for someone applying for a PhD program ?
Academic rank varies by country . But I would expect in most places a letter written by a postdoc would be considered . Selecting letter writers is often a compromise between getting a letter writer who is highly ranked and well known and getting a letter writer who is well informed . Typically one gets both when a postdoc assists a senior faculty member in writing a letter .
Here 's a useful blog post from Prof-like Substance on the subject <URL> : I asked the very question that Anon is positing above to several colleagues and they all told me to call up a PO and tell them I was interested . At the time , this was an incredibly terrifying concept , but I did as I was told and in the next round I was asked . Since then , I have put other people 's names in the proverbial " hat " and they have also been asked . This includes postdocs , for those of you postdocs out there who want a jump on things . Is it really that simple ? Yes . POs spend a lot of time and energy trying to fill out there panels , finding the right mix of career stages , gender , academic background , ets. , etc. . More than half of the people they ask ignore them and probably another 60 % - 70 % of those that respond decline . Being on a panel is a huge amount of work , so it 's not exactly something you just jump on . For that reason it is difficult to fill the room with able-bodied panelists who you can count on to do the work . If someone calls you up and says " I would really love to be on a panel . " that person is going on the list for the next round . Unlike NIH , NSF really does try an incorporate early career stage people into the decision making process . For all of you out there wondering about the process and what the life and times of a panelist are , take advantage of this . It was extremely helpful for me and I have received similar feedback from others who have been early-career people on panels . and in <URL> ( emphasis mine ) : People often ask how one gets on a panel and the answer is fairly simple . Ask . Decide on a panel and email or call the PO . Tell them you 're an early career person and really want to get involved in a panel . Unlike NIH , NSF makes a concerted effort to involve early career people in the review process . Both panels I have been on has been skewed towards more junior people and has included 2 postdocs in the mix . Use this to your advantage ! There is a useful <URL> on these posts from someone who identifies himself as a former NSF program director : Speaking as a former NSF program director I can be more specific about volunteering for NSF panels . Use the " Search Awards " on the NSF page to find awards on topics of interest . The award abstracts contain the name of the NSF program director . Send email ( not phone ) message to the NSF PD with subject line : Volunteer Panelist for subject area ... State in the email what topics you are interested in . Include a copy of your c.v. Panels are usually held 2-4 months after solicitation deadlines . New panelists are not usually placed on panels for large size solicitations . The NSF offers the following on <URL> : To become an NSF reviewer , send an e-mail to the NSF program officer ( s ) of the program ( s ) that fits your expertise . Introduce yourself and identify your areas of expertise , and let them know that you are interested in becoming a peer reviewer . It is most helpful if you also attach a 2-page CV with current contact information . We also encourage you to share this request with other colleagues who might be interested in serving as NSF reviewers . NSF welcomes qualified reviewers from the academic , industrial , and government sectors .
If I cared enough about a person to write a letter of recommendation , I would be pleased to think that one day after I am gone that the person could use my letter for their benefit . You will possibly benefit from this recommendation and possibly someone else will suffer if you are selected based upon the recommendation ; however , competition is not generally considered unethical . There are no legal questions raised that I can imagine . It seems unconventional , but not extreme . My feelings are that it would be ethical to use the letter .
It is difficult to give a " global " answer to this question . There is a very wide variety of PhD programs in statistics throughout the world , so much so that the overlap between two given programs can end up being surprisingly small . The closest thing to a short answer is : Yes , it helps . ( Or , should ! ) Now , for some nuances . Any scholarly peer-reviewed publication should be viewed favorably . Obviously , the closer your publications are to the field that you 're applying to , the more weight they are likely to receive . People -- even academics -- tend to go with what they know and are familiar with . If the journal/conference is recognizable to them , then that will help , but it 's not a prerequisite . If , for example , you apply to any top-tier PhD programs in statistics , you 'll mostly be competing against other applicants with undergraduate degrees in mathematics , so a publication in a reputable journal/conference can help set you apart . Personally , I disagree with your second professor : I 'd be very happy to see a publication in history or literature ( or whatever ) if accompanied by an otherwise strong application . But , I may also be in the minority there . It depends on the departments you apply to . Many statistics departments in the US , e.g. , have become increasingly attuned to the overlap in statistics , machine learning , and computer science , in general , over the last many years . Some have very active research groups in this area and regularly interact ( and collaborate ) with machine-learning researchers from other departments and publish in NIPS , ICML , JMLR and other like venues . And , some departments simply have more active research programs , generally speaking , than others . Applying to departments that have focused research programs in statistical machine learning will improve the chance that your publication will be given greater weight , especially if it is published in a high-profile venue . Other departments that are either more traditional or have different research foci may weigh such a publication differently . In any event , you should try to be aware of how well aligned your interests are to those of the departments you 're applying to , assuming your interests are at all well-defined at this stage . Talk about your research . If your application includes a personal research statement of some sort , discuss your work and describe the statistical content in a concise , matter-of-fact way . If it genuinely led to your interest in applying to PhD programs in statistics , then you can describe this as well , but it should be natural and not forced .
Pick someone else if it is n't already too late . The actual answer to your question is this : It is far better to have a good letter from a faculty member who is relatively unknown than a bad letter from someone they recognize and respect . In fact , the latter is probably the worst thing that could happen . If it is already too late , i.e. you have asked Professor X , he 's agreed , and you 've sent him the material ( which is probably an online link these days ) then work hard to make writing the letter easy . Put together the following information and send it fast : Include your student number . Remind him which of his classes you have taken , and when . How did you distinguish yourself in those classes ? How would you describe yourself ? What are your strengths ? What are your weaknesses ? He is going to have to answer those questions when he writes your reference , so the more details the better ; but these must be things your referee knows himself . What are some of your academic and nonacademic accomplishments that he may not remember ? What makes him particularly qualified to write a letter for you ? That is , why should the recipient of the letter value it over a letter from someone else ? This goes in an email that says , " Thank you very much for agreeing to write a reference for me on very short notice . I hope the following will be of use to you when you write it . "
A time-honored method is to identify professors around the world who are experts in the desired area , contact them , and ask if they have grad students who will be finishing soon and might be interested and qualified .
I would view the letter favorably if the letter writer made it clear that they had observed the candidate 's teaching . I 've seen some TA training programs where the TA 's are observed in the classroom and get formal evaluations by someone involved in the training program . A letter of recommendation from such a person would be quite valuable from my point of view ( and assuming that the letter was positive this would be helpful to the candidate . ) On the other hand , if the person that you 're considering is just a faculty development specialist who runs workshops that you 've attended and has n't directly observed your teaching , then such a letter would be much less useful ( read useless ) to me .
PhD programs are wanting to recruit people who are capable of doing advanced research . Grades are a proxy that people use to try to estimate which members of a population ( almost none of whom have publications ) will be able to acquire the skill set necessary to publish in the future . And , grades are n't a terribly good proxy . Therefore , the best thing you can do to get into a good grad program is going to be to keep publishing , and ideally in the best places possible . If you publish research , then you 'll be able to get letters of reference that talk about your skills as a writer and scientist that should offset any difficulty with your grades . You 'll need to tell some kind of story to tell in your cover letter about why your grades are bad , and how they do n't represent the work you will do in your phd program . ( ideally a letter writer should address this fact too ) . Good luck !
Although it may be quite awkward , it is certainly acceptable to tell the student/colleague that you do not feel you can write a strong LoR for them , and to suggest that they ask someone else . This may seem rude or even unkind , but it 's much better for the student/colleague in the long run than a lukewarm or poor letter .
Recommendation letters are all about trust : why should the person reading the recommendation letter believe the person who is writing it , when they say that they should place trust in you ? Thus , all else being equal , a professor with better qualifications provides a stronger recommendation . Other considerations , however , can be more important , as it all boils down to the basic question of trust . For example : A little-known professor who knows you well and has worked together with you is a better recommender than a world-famous professor who can only say : " This student was one of 100 who got a good grade in my giant class this year . " A professor with a close colleague in the department where you are applying may be much more trusted in their recommendation than a world-famous professor who nobody in the department knows personally . Furthermore , you probably will have more than one letter writer , and diversity in your letter-writers can be a virtue : some more prominent , others more in depth , etc. . Thus , you really need to look at this as a whole package , and say : " What is the combination of people who will , as a collective , present the most favorable and trustworthy picture of me to the particular places where I am applying ? "
This may be subject-dependent , but my impression is that it is certainly not like that in mathematics ( my subject ) . I come from New Zealand and would probably like to return to live there eventually , but I 'm expecting to have to do at least one more postdoc ( I 'm already on my second , but my first was just one year ) before I have any chance of a permanent job there . ( And I do know people there who I think probably like me and , more importantly , are interested in my research . ) There are so few universities in New Zealand ( eight , but one is small and primarily agricultural , I think ) that there are by no means anywhere near enough academic jobs available to employ all New Zealanders with PhDs and postdocs from ' good ' universities . Still , I can imagine that if your student does indeed ' know people who like him ' in New Zealand , his chances may very well be better there than for US universities of comparable standard ( this is assuming that ' liking him ' partly includes being impressed with his academic work ) .
I agree with BrenBarn , but perhaps it will be useful to express things slightly differently . To understand the purpose of letters of recommendation , it 's important to think about the context . In my experience , the default assessment for a graduate school application is " not enough information " or " insufficiently compelling case . " Most of the time , a rejection does n't mean the committee felt there was enough evidence to prove the applicant was unworthy ( although it can mean that for particularly bad applications ) . Instead , there just was n't enough to justify admitting this applicant rather than the competition . For example , grades are not very useful . The ceiling is low , the standards are inconsistent , and in any case getting good grades is a quite different skill from doing good research . Undergraduate research can be a more useful indicator , but it 's still pretty limited . Some students have much better access to high-quality research opportunities than others do , so it 's hardly a fair comparison . Plus many undergraduate research papers consist of straightforward work on specialized problems , done with considerable guidance and under some time pressure . That 's a little closer to professional research than classwork is , but still not so close . So the basic setting is that admissions committees are desperate for information . Judging research potential is really difficult , and it 's at best loosely correlated with most of the hard data in graduate school applications . This is the context for letters of recommendation . If you have interacted closely with the applicant on a substantial undertaking in this field over a period of months or years , then you are in an excellent position to judge their suitability for graduate school . If you can convey this information to the admissions committee in a trustworthy and reliable way , then it can be far more valuable than anything else in the application . Of course not all letters are useful . A letter saying " Joe got an A in my course " reveals nothing beyond what the committee could have learned from the transcript . More depressingly , some letter writers say substantive things but are not in a position to do so compellingly . If you are completely unknown to the committee , with no reputation or track record of prior students , then your letter will carry less weight ( and even less if you do n't at least have the excuse of being young ) . This is n't as much of a problem as you might guess . Many people in the field have a reputation , even if they have never met anyone on the admissions committee , and they have an incentive not to hurt that reputation by writing foolish or biased letters . If necessary , someone on the committee can get in touch with them to ask further questions . Plus there are all sorts of opportunities for consistency checks ( for example , if someone repeatedly says each year 's top student is the best in years , that will be noticed ) . However , there 's still a genuine problem . A small fraction of applicants just are n't in a position to get compelling letters of recommendation , no matter how talented they are . They are going to be rejected through no fault of their own . That 's a sad outcome , but it seems to be unavoidable . If we had a more reliable way to judge research potential , we would eagerly use it . The point of letters is n't that they always help with the decision , but rather that they often help . When they do n't help , the application joins the pile of rejections due to lack of information . For comparison , one of the comments reads : Now , ideal case , if A = B in ability , two possibilities arise - ( 1 ) If recommendation letter matters , then A gets picked over B ( which is not fair ) , Indeed , it 's not fair , but it 's impossible to gather enough information to make fair and reliable judgments in every case . Ultimately , the admissions committee has to accept that some wonderful applicants will be rejected because they could n't prove how wonderful they were . ( Not using letters of recommendation would reduce this type of unfairness , but at the cost of greatly reducing the information available to make good decisions in the other cases . It would amount to partially randomizing the decisions , which would not be in the department 's best interests . ) To put it rather starkly , fairness is not the admissions committee 's primary goal . Instead , the primary goal is to admit as strong an incoming class as possible . Letters of recommendation greatly help on average in achieving that goal , at the cost of disadvantaging certain applicants . This is a price departments are willing to pay .
I do n't have experience with philosophy , but I ca n't imagine this part of admissions is too different . It 's pretty common for students to have one or more letters from faculty they have n't had classes with in the past year , so no that 's not a problem . ( In fact , sometimes it happens with all the letters , if the student takes time off -- e.g. , see : <URL> ) What 's important is that each letter writer should have something meaningful to say about your preparation , talent , attitude , performance , work ethic , etc. . Also , depending on the circumstances , it may be very natural for you to continue to have plenty of interactions with this professor over the next year or so whether or not you take another class with her . That said , you should get letters from some people you 've taken in your 4th-5th year ( particularly master 's classes if possible ) . The main reason for this is you want recommendations which can discuss your performance in more advanced classes , which is presumably what you 'll be taking .
In my experience in the US , I have never seen any sort of decision letter for an application ( whether for Ph.D. or any position ) that gives reasons for the decision . It may be different in other countries , but in the US at least , there are many good reasons to never give such information formally . The actual decision-making process is never as clean and clear-cut as anybody wants it to be , and with the limited information available in applications and even interviews , there are going to be cases where people make mistakes or make good decisions for unclear or hard to state reasons . Lots of good people may get turned down for reasons having nothing to do with them , such as just having too many good candidates in the same area . If an institution gives real reasons in an official statement ( as opposed to something meaningless and bland like " not an appropriate fit at this time " ) , then it is opening up the door for all sorts of potential problems and disputes , not to mention potential legal liability if something could be construed as relating to a protected category such as gender , age , religion , or ethnicity . They also have to worry about seriously unbalanced people who may take it as a personal insult and begin some sort of stalking or harassment campaign ( it happens ! ) . Not giving reasons may feel unsatisfying and cowardly , but it is an easy and safe path for an institution , and as such is generally official policy . Now , if you have an informal trusted relationship with somebody who was involved in the decision process , then it is sometimes possible to get a strictly unofficial take on what may have happened . You might learn things you did n't want to know about how sausage is made , however .
Academic rank varies by country . But I would expect in most places a letter written by a postdoc would be considered . Selecting letter writers is often a compromise between getting a letter writer who is highly ranked and well known and getting a letter writer who is well informed . Typically one gets both when a postdoc assists a senior faculty member in writing a letter .
It 's hard to say about any specific fellowship ( especially without knowing which one ) , but I 've served on graduate admissions committees where we 've asked applicants a similar question . I do n't recall any case in which I thought someone 's answer changed whether they would be accepted , so I do n't think you should worry much about this . I see three ways in which the information is relevant . I 'll phrase everything in terms of my experience with graduate admissions , but the same reasoning probably applies for fellowships . Sometimes we learn a little more about the applicant from where they decided to apply , since we learn which sorts of departments interest them the most . The main case in which this could signal weakness is " reach schools " : if you apply to a top department and tell them the only other schools you are applying to are much lower-ranked , then it amounts to saying you do n't expect to be admitted . I 'd be wary of answering in that case , but I would n't worry about it otherwise . Knowing where else a student has applied can help in recruiting , since it means we can take into account other offers or deadlines they may face and can make a pitch based on what we expect their other options might be . ( One way this plays out in practice is it helps us guess who might benefit from extra encouragement since they may have received an offer from Department X this week . ) Departments are interested in this sort of information for statistical reasons , so they can keep track of which other departments applicants consider similar to or competitive with them . This reason has nothing to do with evaluating applications or recruiting students , and it could be satisfied with an anonymous questionnaire , but that 's more work to administer than simply adding a question to the application ( and it might get a lower response rate ) .
I do not think you should reuse the letter as is , for two reasons : The letter writer did not intend for it to be reused , or else it would have been written more generically . It 's generally not reasonable to use such a letter outside of the circumstances envisioned/authorized by its author . You would have to explain that there 's no realistic way to contact the writer , and that is itself a red flag . It looks suspicious to say " here 's what Professor X would say if you could contact him , but you ca n't " . A letter is n't worth much if the committee could n't in principle contact the writer to confirm or ask further question . Certain rare cases might merit an exception , such as reusing a letter from someone who has since died . ( Where the death is a matter of public record , everybody assumes that of course the writer would have updated the letter if death had n't intervened , and they are inclined towards flexibility because of the difficult situation . ) How hard would it really be to contact the letter writer ? If it 's inconvenient but not impossible , then it could be your best option .
The legal situation in Israel I mention Israel first since am involved in a legal case before the Israeli national labor court on this very question : Arguing that those PhD candidates who are required to work all week long , who are forbidden from working outside the university , who can be required to teach up to a limit according to the needs of their academic departments etc. etc. - who contribute significantly to the research ( and teaching ) " outputs " of the university , should be considered its employees , and the monthly " stipends " that they get should be recognized again as their salary . This is case  '  5439-04-16 ( Labor Appeal 5439-04-16 ) . I 've authored a booklet on the history of this struggle , which has an English version : <URL> Or get the <URL> ; in fact , if you can read Hebrew , you can find the court case documents <URL> . The legal situation in the US Another , perhaps more relevant , legal treatment of this matter can be found in the recent ruling of the National Labor Relations board , in the case of Graduate Workers of Columbia University , UAW , AFL-CIO vs the University of Columbia ( NLRB 364-90 : HTML <URL> , <URL> ) : The court has found that , indeed , Graduate students who perform meaningful research or teaching work as part of the course of their PhD program ( and are paid ) , are considered university employees to the extent of the applicability of US labor law , especially the laws governing unionization and collective bargaining . That decision reversed the unfortunate ( 3-to-2 ) decision in the 2004 case of Brown University ( NLRB 342-42 : <URL> , <URL> ) , which had itself reversed the 2000 decision in the case of NYU ( NLRB 332-111 : <URL> , <URL> ) . See also the AAUP <URL> of the Columbia U case and their position . The actual answer I can talk for hours , literally , about this subject , and I actually have ... but in a nutshell : Being an employee and being undergoing a process of education are not mutually exclusive ; and you always learn when you 're starting out in a new career path , be it in industry or in academia . The common labor-legal criteria for being considered an employee can and do apply to many/most/all PhD candidates ( depending on which state in the world , which kind of PhD work etc. ) A university is an organization whose ongoing objectives are to produce research findings and to teach students . If you contribute towards those goals ( by performing research and teaching ) , even if you 're also undergoing a process of education yourself , you should be recognized and remunerated as such . Post-Docs only learn and are educated through practical research work ( which , of course , involves learning - but that 's the case also for the most high-ranking Professors ) ; they do n't take classes , get homework and take exams to see whether they 've studied well enough . so about them there should not be any doubt of being in relations of employment . as for why have PhD candidates when you can have Post-docs - I 've already written enough , let others discuss that :-)
A professor whose idea of a good or even appropriate letter of recommendation is to copy a letter off of the internet and send it to you is a knucklehead . ( That is a technical term : I am after all an academic professional . I could have used stronger language ... ) At least , he is in this respect : in the comments the OP mentions that he got a job at Waterloo , which is a university with a high international reputation . So he must have some other good things going for him . In the fullness of time , I have to believe that he will learn how to write a reasonable recommendation letter . But that 's not your problem . I would advise you to look at the fact that the professor gave the letter directly to you -- which is itself irregular and , in certain circles , inappropriate -- as a real blessing . He could have just sent this miserable excuse for a letter quietly to all the places you 're applying to , and you would be the one ( in the short term , at least ) to suffer the consequences . I strongly disagree that you should work further with this guy to write a better letter . ( In particular , I vehemently disagree that you should write the letter yourself . As I have said before on this site , I find that " immoral and wrong " -- a recommendation letter is a commissioned expert opinion . Looking over the opinion desired by the person you have been commissioned to evaluate and deciding whether or not it requires any modification is not how expert opinions work . But I 've made my feelings on this moral issue clear enough already . Here let me push the practical side of this : as a student , you can not write for yourself a good recommendation letter . There are components of such a letter that require expertise and personal experience that you necessarily lack . ) It is time to start fresh and get a letter from a new person . The part of your response that jumps out at me is " I ca n't find a third professor other than him who is willing to write a letter for me . " That 's the real issue here , and I hope it will serve as a warning to other students in your position . All undergraduates should be thinking -- from their first year -- about building good relationships with their instructors that will lead to multiple people being able to write them strong recommendation letters . It is all too easy to go through an undergraduate program -- even , perhaps especially , to excel at it -- while having very little contact with the faculty outside of the classroom and regular coursework . That is certainly a mistake . Okay , though : what do you do ? You ask whether someone who has not taught you in a course can write you a letter . The answer is certainly yes . You want the letter writer to ( i ) have stature in the academic community and in the particular area you 're applying to , and ( ii ) have something meaningful to say about your academic background , skills , work ethic , and prospects for success in graduate school . Someone that you have done research with can speak to aspects of that as well or better as people who have taught you in a course in which you quietly got an A . In a pinch -- as you seem to be -- I would advise you to try to make contacts with people who satisfy condition ( i ) and try to rapidly achieve ( ii ) with them . Thus for instance if you 've done any research at all in the field you 're intending to study , you could send a paper ( or code , or interesting data , or whatever ) to an expert in that field and mention that you 'd like a recommendation letter . This is a bit irregular , but if your work is solid , why not ? I would do it . I strongly recommend that you work harder to find the right person to write you a strong letter than to have further dealings with someone who has already proven to be hopelessly inept at the job .
( 1 ) For the cover letter , should it end by saying something , In my experience ( ~ 10 years on hiring committees , starting my second year as hiring committee chair ) , almost nobody will read your cover letter . If you have something to say about your research , say it in your research statement . If you have something to say about your teaching , say it in your teaching statement . If you have something to say about your personal life , do n't . If the department does n't acknowledge receipt ( typically by email ) , it 's reasonable to call or email the department to double-check . But " waiting for your call " is unreasonably optimistic . Each department you 're applying to probably gets hundreds of applications for each faculty position . ( 2 ) Should the cover letter contain qualifications and skills like highly-motivated , fast learner etc ? Absolutely not ! " Motivated " and " fast learner " are neither skills nor qualifications ; they 're useless boilerplate . Of course you 're motivated and a fast learner ; otherwise , you would n't have a PhD and a publication record consistent with a tenure-track faculty position . Your actual skills and qualifications should be apparent from your CV , your research and teaching statements , and your recommendation letters . ( 3 ) Some recommends to mention potential drs from the department that the applicant can work with . Is this a good idea ? If Dr. A is working on topic T , and I want to work on topic T , then should I say that I would like to collaborate with Dr. A ? If yes , what is a good way to say it ?! Do n't just say it ; make a convincing case . Just dropping a few names into your research statement will be written off immediately as meaningless boilerplate . If your research goals really do converge with Dr. A 's research interests , that should be obvious from your larger research narrative , and it should be easy for you to draw specific , technical , and credible connections between your interests and Dr. A 's . Do not fake it . We can tell . ( 4 ) For the research statement , should I use " I " or " we " for joint papers , assuming that I was the first author ? " We " or " my coauthors and I " ; using " I " for joint work is dishonest . But this is a relatively minor issue .
end question
start question
Business card for Ph.D. student - what should be included ?
My experience of business cards in academia is that they are mostly just an easier way to share contact information than scribbling it on a napkin . As such , the only things that are really important are institution , name , title ( because everybody will expect it ) , and sets of preferred contact information . As such , if you want people calling you , put down your phone number ; if you do n't want people calling you , do n't put it down . Likewise for all of the other standard aspects . You probably should have a web page that you want people to visit . As for social media sites like LinkedIn : I 'm rather dubious about them , simply because there are potentially so many . I think one would n't be a problem , but the extrapolator in my mind goes to a ridiculous image of somebody handing me a card with their LinkedIn , Twitter , Google + , ResearchGate , Facebook , etc. . Do n't be that person , or else if I meet you at a conference and you hand me your card , I may have a difficult time avoiding laughter .
While in principle everything that you use in your research should be paid for by those funding your research , in practice it 's not unusual to buy oneself small supplies at the " minor office supply " level for sake of expedience , or because they 're outside of the main line of one 's research . For example , a student might want a $ 10 piece of electronics today that would take several weeks to acquire through normal channels , and then might decide it 's not worth it to them to get reimbursed . You might also buy something for yourself if you want to be the owner : for example , I bought my own laptop late in graduate school , rather than using a school laptop , because I wanted it to be my own personal machine that I could take with me when I finished . What you have written , however , sounds like a much more problematic situation : it appears that you 're effectively being asked to lie to your professor 's funder , by misrepresenting how their money is being spent . If it 's a significant amount of money , then you could be abetting in a felony-level crime . As such , if it is a significant amount of money , I would strongly advise you to not buy the equipment yourself . Instead , I think you should tell your advisor that you need the equipment , but if they do n't get it , you 'll just have to do your best without . If your advisor does n't buy the equipment , you should n't badmouth your advisor to the funder . Just do your best , and if they ask you why you do n't have the equipment you need , you can tell them the honest truth : you 've asked your advisor for it and are hoping you 'll get it .
How about John Doe , MSc ( Comp . Sci . ) , MSc ( Sci . Comm . ) ? ( Then again , this could look pretentious . Proceed with caution . ) Unfortunately , the relevant <URL> is not highly informative , and anyway it is flagged as " citations required " and specific to the UK : Where two different postgraduate qualifications with the same name have been obtained ( for example two different postgraduate MAs from King 's College London and University of Sussex ) , this can be indicated by using one degree postnominal , and the abbreviations of the two awarding bodies in parentheses , sometimes joined by the Latin " et " ( or with an ampersand ) , e.g. " Jane Smith MA ( KCL et Sussex ) " , and not " Jane Smith MA MA " . However , when qualifications with the same name have been gained through different routes ( for example an MA from Oxford University converted from a Bachelor of Arts , and a studied and examined postgraduate degree from King 's College London these are listed separately with the institution only listed after the non-examined qualification ( e.g. " Jane Smith MA ( Oxf ) MA " , and not " Jane Smith MA ( Oxf et KCL ) " ) .
From my personal experience it is unusual for undergrad students to have taken 16 math graduate courses while he/she is still in the junior year . What you have taken clearly exceeds the expectations of most graduate programs . If the professors who taught the classes think highly of you , that could be a strong selling point for your graduate school application . As for research experience , you may not want to take it too seriously as a budding mathematician . As Krantz explained in the book A Mathematician 's Survival Guide ( which , btw , is a book you may want to read ) : Mathematics is a bit different [ than other natural sciences ] . We do n't use test tubes . The hard fact of life is that mathematics is a subject that builds vertically . You are not really qualified to do serious research - the sort of research that mathematicians actually do - until after you pass the qualifying exams . So research experience is great in exposing you to the world of math research , but your coursework performance may be sufficient to get you to the graduate school you want to be . I think most graduate programs wo n't mind that you are graduating in three years as long as you complete the same workload as those who graduate in four years . I should say that I 'm not in a math PhD program ; so take my advice with a grain of salt .
For an initial meeting , I would take an general idea of the kinds of things you 'd like to do in a particular advisor 's group , a sense of what the advisor works on -- you do n't necessarily have to have read papers in advance , and an open mind . That said , you 'll make a better impression if you have read a few recent papers , and have a few intelligent questions to ask . It will pique the advisor 's interest , and show your sincerity . As for coming in with ideas for a research project , this depends a lot on how the project will be funded . If you have your own fellowship and can design your own project , then you should definitely have an idea or two ready . On the other hand , if you will be funded by an existing research grant within the group , your choice of projects will be more constrained . One final note -- I would say that it 's definitely not required that you take a course with an advisor before considering them as a research advisor . If that were the case , I would have been on a completely different career path than the one I 'm on now , as I 'd be working for my fourth-choice advisor ( who was the only one I took a class with before choosing a research group ! ) .
It is a common thread - see <URL> and <URL> . An excerpt from the first : The advisor-advisee dynamic needs to shift over the course of a degree . Early on , the advisor should be hands on , doling out specific topics and helping to craft early papers . Toward the end , the student should know more than the advisor about her topic . Once the inversion happens , she needs to " go rogue " and start choosing the topics to investigate and initiating the paper write-ups . She needs to do so even if her advisor is insisting she do something else . The trick is getting the timing right . Going rogue before the student knows how to choose good topics and write well will end in wasted paper submissions and a grumpy advisor . On the other hand , continuing to act only when ordered to act past a certain point will strain an advisor that expects to start seeing a " return " on an investment of time and hard-won grant money . Advisors expect near-terminal Ph.D. students to be proto-professors with intimate knowledge of the challenges in their field . They should be capable of selecting and attacking research problems of appropriate size and scope . Personally , I have a lot of experience with unsupervised research ( yes , usually wasted a lot of time for no results ) , starting from high school . Sure , doing advisor 's project is much safer ( as , in some sense , ( s ) he is responsible for the big picture , references , judging which result is good enough ) and allows to forget about doubts ( for good or bad ) and concentrate on work . However , what I 've discovered after 1.5 of my PhD ( mostly " going rogue " ) is that there are two important things : asking experts ( or peers ) , and day-to-day collaboration . Sure , you can have an expert and a collaborator in the same person of your advisor , but as long as you are not afraid of talking to other people and have some knowledge in the topic , it should n't be hard to ask experts appropriate questions . When it comes to collaboration - it may be trickier ( but not if you locally have people with an interest overlap ) . On contrary , working alone for months on a theoretical problem , with little feedback , may be very hard ( both technically and psychologically ) . <URL> . It is not a problem for one research line , but it is when all research is done alone ( may be inefficient and depressive , perhaps unless you are in a deep love with it ) .
Citations that do not appear in the main article should not appear in the bibliography section of the main article . Instead , you should create a separate references list in the supporting information , and use a separate numbering scheme . Usually you can use the same numbering scheme as in the main article ; it will be clear that references apply to the supporting information , rather than the main article . ( You could add a footnote to that effect if you want to make this clear , since supporting information is usually handled " as is " by the publisher . )
You should use the date conferred . Universities will have an official date where all degrees for the term are conferred on everyone . This is usually not the same date as the graduation ceremony as there can be multiple graduation ceremonies across multiple days , but trying to keep track of all of them would be confusing . It 's much simpler to just pick one day after all the ceremonies and say all degrees are official as of that date . That being said , I 've never heard of an employer ( or anyone ) who really cares about the particular date as long as it 's clear that you 've already met all of the requirements of graduation .
[ Context : I am a CS lecturer in the target country ] I really see no reason to hide an achievement of this nature , even if it is not tightly related to your application field . It shows that you are capable of committing to a long-term project with responsibilities . Perhaps it will not give you a significant edge over other candidates at this stade ( application in master 1 ) , but in the future , researchers interested in choosing you for an internship will certainly find this information useful . It does not harm to mention this experience , and it might be useful now or later . Also , if you do n't mention it and someone finds out , they will wonder why you wanted to conceal it . Really , I ca n't see a valid reason to do so ( except maybe if what you founded was an escort agency or some other adult business , and you wanted to keep that for yourself ) .
Very roughly , at the US universities I have worked for , the IP policies have been along these general lines : When you write a paper or book as part of your research , you get to keep the copyright and any royalties . But the university gets permission to use the work internally , keep a copy in the library , etc. . If , as part of your research , you invent something that 's patentable , contact the university 's IP office . They will help you with the patent process . You and the university will hold the patent together , or some similar arrangement . They have to agree on any licensing agreements , etc ( where you sell some company the rights to use your patent ) , and they get a large share ( perhaps half or so ) of whatever royalties or fees are earned . ( I 'm a pure mathematician , and we never invent anything patentable , so I always skim the patent part and may have got it wrong :-)
No , there is n't any general rule . First , a PhD degree is awarded by a university , not by an individual . The education system of a country or the university rules usually define which positions can officially act as supervisors . The same education system or the university rules establish which titles should have a person to be eligible for those positions : if the PhD is not required , which is not uncommon , there can certainly be PhD supervisors without a PhD . Another case is the following : in Italy the PhD degree has been established some thirty-odd years ago . This means that most of those who became professors in Italy before that time do n't have a PhD ( as Federico rightly observes , some might have taken it abroad ) , but they surely can supervise students officially .
Please feel free to edit the answer to improve it . Generally , PhD programs in the US have many more applicants than they can accept . The number of positions is limited by finances ( a department can only afford a limited number of RAs and TAs ) , space and resources ( students often need offices and access to equipment ) , and the ability to supervise the students ( there is a limit to the number of PhD students a faculty member can effectively supervise ) . The admissions committee must decide which of the qualified applicants are most likely to be successful researchers while taking departmental " politics " into consideration . These politics include things like the start up package for Professor X included a funded PhD student and a particular resource is already at capacity . The admissions committee bases its decision on a number of pieces of information including GPA , GRE scores , statement of purpose , references and interviews and for international students TOEFL scores . There is no formula ( e.g. , 6 * GPA +1 * GRE +2 * References + Publications ) by which applicants are ranked , but some universities and/or departments set minimum requirements ( e.g. , GPA over 3.0 or a TOEFL over 85 ) . The admissions committee looks at the entire application to make an informed judgement . This means that being strong in one area can , and does , offset being weak in another area . GPA and major/background When admissions committees consider the GPA they are considering a number of factors including the grades , the strength of the school and major , the types of classes , and trends . An applicant who did poorly in 1st year general electives will be looked at very differently from a student who did poorly in advanced specialized classes . The major is not nearly as important as the relevant classes . For example , an engineering department might look more favourably on a math major who took , and did well on , engineering and applied math electives than an engineering major who took humanities electives . As with everything in the admissions process , the admissions committee is trying to judge the potential for research success . Compensating for a low GPA and major/background mismatch A low GPA can be offset by a strong research record highlighted in the SOP and letters of reference . The SOP and letters of reference can also be used to make the admissions committee aware of any extenuating circumstances that may have lead to the low GPA . Similarly , the SOP and letters of reference can be used to address how your major and background prepare you for research in the field that you are applying to . Strong GRE scores can also help offset a low GPA , and a strong GRE subject test can compensate for mismatches between majors . The best way to offset a low GPA , or a mismatch in area of specialization , is to consider enrolling in a terminal Master 's degree and getting a good GPA in difficult classes . I would like to add that an excellent way of improving a low GPA is by taking a senior thesis course , which is almost always available . Not only is this a proven way of building close ties with one or more faculty members ( who will supervise you in your thesis ) and getting those strong , personalized recommendations , but it could lead to a publication , or at the very least , a technical report published by the department . My senior thesis experience was life-changing : I ended up doing a Ph.D. . BECAUSE it made me realize that I was a better fit for doing research than I might have originally thought . In terms of grades , getting a good grade on the senior thesis course is usually not difficult ( especially since you 're not evaluated on an exam performance ) , assuming you put in the effort . GRE There are a number of limitations to the GRE in terms of predicting research success , but it is the only standardized metric admissions committees have access to . The weight given to the different sections of the GRE and the subject tests can vary substantially among departments . Compensating for low GRE scores A low GRE scores can be offset by a strong research record highlighted in the SOP and letters of reference . The SOP and letters of reference can also be used to make the admissions committee aware of any extenuating circumstances that may have lead to the low GRE scores . A Strong GPA can also help offset low GRE scores . The best way to offset a low GRE is to retake the GRE . The GRE is typically offered year-round for applicants . Upon receiving a lower-than-expected GRE score , you can , and should , immediately register for another GRE exam and begin preparing . Because of the short turn-around time , any preparation you did for the previous GRE should allow you to prepare much more quickly this time . You are technically permitted to take the GRE once every 3 weeks , or 5 times a year . However , repeat testings are detrimental to your schedule , morale , and finances , so it might be best to keep taking the test only until you receive a satisfactory score that you feel will rep
There are three distinct levels of credit that the former postdoc might be given , depending on their level of contribution to each particular new publication . In order of increasing significance , these are : Citation . The postdoc has done significant prior work for these papers , and so clearly this prior work must be cited . Acknowledgement . If the postdoc contributed materially to the new paper , but not enough to merit authorship , then acknowledgement is the typical compromise " middle ground . " Authorship ( though not in one of the " privileged positions " such as first author or last author , if they are held significant in the particular subfield ) . The boundary between citation and acknowledgement is usually pretty straightforward : did the individual make any contribution that significantly aided the new work beyond providing nice , clear explanations of the content of their publications ? If not , then merely citing should be sufficient . The boundary between acknowledgement and authorship is extremely field dependent , and moreover often affected strongly by the subfield . With ethical and trusted colleagues , the best way to navigate this question is often simply to have an open discussion together about where and how to draw this boundary .
Although the term " PhD candidate " is used in both continents , a Ph.D program in the USA comprises of : Master ( 2 years ) + Doctorate ( 3 years ) , meaning it takes at least 5 years , whereas in Europe comprises of just the latter : Doctorate ( 3 years ) . This means that yes , a Master 's degree or something deemed equivalent or superior is required to enter the doctoral course in Europe . The fact that it 's " not required " in the US is an illusion , it 's just because the Master 's is ( sort of ) included IN the Ph. D program . In the end you will get your Ph. D degree at around the same age than students in Europe . If your University in the USA does not deliver a Master 's degree per se , you will have to check with the prospective university in Europe to see whether they will count your research experience ( preferably 1-2 years of lab research after your 4-year Bachelor 's , which you could sum up in something that looks like a Master 's thesis ) as being equivalent or superior to a Master 's degree . I believe it is case by case . Also , please keep in mind that some countries like France require you to have a scholarship or to secure some kind of funding prior to admission to cover your living expenses for the entirety of the Doctorate ( 3 years ) since Ph.D candidates have a status similar to paid staff . The UK is probably one of the only countries in the world where it 's OK to do just a Doctorate ( 3 years ) right after your Bachelor 's ( = if you compare to other countries , you could say it means skipping the 2 years of Master 's ) , however , I do n't think this is highly valued on the international market , unless you managed to end up with the same amount of work and publications than the people who did Master ( 2 years ) + Doctorate ( 3 years ) . / / Speaking for science majors / /
For interdisciplinary researchers , this sort of thing can happen fairly often . For example , if you are a chemist working on ecological applications , you might well have started out in a chemistry department and end up in an ecology department , or vice versa . This happens even more so when dealing with disciplines that may be categorized differently by different institutions : for example , is work on medical devices part of biology and the natural sciences faculty or part of electrical or mechanical engineering ? Generally , however , if it 's going to happen , there is at least some logical trail that you can see how the faculty member got from point A to point B.
The following is condensed from advice for academic job hunts that I 've read <URL> and <URL> - I imagine it should be somewhat applicable for jobs in industry as well : If you would be applying for a position at Fall , begin applying from summer the previous year - applications tend to be sorted during committee meets , and the earlier you apply , the fewer applications are there , so there are higher chances of getting your application noticed . Hence , you 'll want to draft your research statement , teaching statement and curriculum vit ( CV ) the summer before your search . If you are applying for industrial as well as academic positions , you probably want more than one resume , since achievement , skills , and goal-oriented resumes can be more effective in the industrial setting . The middle of January is when most schools stop accepting applications . Even then , keep submitting to any position you find through February , particularly if someone there recommends you apply . You will probably hear back with invitations for interviews in January and February , but sometimes even March and April . Get your letter writers primed as early as possible . You 'll need at most six letter writers , but no less than three , and you 'll want to ask them at least a month in advance with all your documents .
An MBA is a professional degree designed for students who will go to work in industry and not pursue further graduate study or research . Students in MBA programs typically all take the same courses in lock step with very few electives or options . It generally is n't possible to specialize in a particular area in an MBA program . In that sense , an MBA program is very much like medical school or law school and totally unlike graduate study in engineering and the arts and sciences . Students in MBA programs usually have several years of full time experience working in low level corporate jobs after completing a bachelors degree . Because they have had some exposure to the corporate/business world , the courses that they take draw on that experience . In comparison , the Master 's in Management is a professionally oriented degree program aimed primarily at students who have just completed a bachelor 's degree . These programs tend to be more theoretical simply because students have less practical experience to draw on . Many business schools also offer professionally oriented masters degrees in more specialized technical areas ( e.g. a Master 's degree in mathematical finance or operations research or analytics . ) PhD programs in business schools are typically very separate from MBA programs and the students in the PhD program will typically take very few if any courses with the MBA students . PhD students take more theoretical course work , take advanced courses in an area of specialization ( e.g. accounting , finance , marketing , etc. ) take course work in research methods , and then conduct research and write a dissertation . If you 're just completing a bachelor 's degree and want to get a masters and go to work in industry , than a Masters in Management is the typical path . If you 're just completing a bachelor 's degree and want to become a business school professor then a PhD program would be appropriate . If you 've had several years of experience in business and want to move up in management , then an MBA would be the typical path for you .
You can include any material that is published as long as you appropriately cite the material ( source ) . If you think any phrasing made by the author ( s ) is key , then you can do it as a quote where the text is reproduced in verbatim . If you do not use quotes you need to rephrase the text in your own words since it would otherwise be considered as a form of plagiarism . So , just be careful with referencing and quotes if necessary . It is better to have cited one time too many than the opposite .
You may often be surprised how often a " universally " understood acronym turns out to be either ambiguous or not quite as universal as you believe . For example , look at all of the <URL> ( some of which are even reasonable ) . I also find that if I would n't say the acronym ( e.g. , " WWW " ) , then it makes for smoother reading to use the words instead . As such , I personally find it best to start by writing out a name in full before giving the acronym . In fact , when there is a short prose alternative like " information technology " or " web , " I prefer avoid the acronym altogether . The exception to this rule is those acronyms that have made the transition to become words ( e.g. , RAM , laser , radar ) or that have no real expansion , such as <URL> , which is more of a recursion joke than an acronym .
Assuming that you 're not in a field where it 's " strictly alphabetical order " ( like economics ) , the question of which position is more important depends on what stage of your career you 're in . If you are a beginning academic -- a PhD student or a postdoctoral fellow -- then the first-author publications are most important , as these will show you taking an active and leading role in your research . As you move up the chain , however , and reach more senior positions , having the last-author credit becomes more important , as now you 're showing your leadership role in directing projects . You do n't want to be stuck in the trap of being a " junior " partner in research collaborations , with the senior PI getting all of the credit for the work .
end question
start question
How should I ask for a modification in the admision procedure of a Master programme ?
Skype interviews are usual ( e.g. I have one with Oxford ) . The school might prefer face-to-face interviews but there is nothing wrong in sending a polite ( brief ! ) email .
Should I inform the project teacher , to have them exposed to the exam committee ? Yes . Tell the teacher exactly what you know : that there is a game that seems very similar to your classmates ' project . As a student , it 's not your responsibility to decide what is and is n't plagiarism , or to decide who should be punished for dishonesty and who should n't , or to start a " movement " to let the cheaters know you 're onto them . If you believe you have evidence of misconduct , report it and let the administration handle it from there .
How much detail to provide in the introduction depends on the circumstances . The minimum requirement is to give enough context and references that a diligent reader could fill in any missing background , at the cost of some extra work . However , that 's a pretty undemanding requirement ; a few papers fail to do this , but they generally fail by not even trying . It 's often valuable to do more to make life easier for the reader . How much more depends on who you expect will read the paper , and on what you believe they want or need from the introduction . ( Some papers are read only by impatient experts , while others attract a broad audience . ) What 's considered appropriate may vary between fields or even subfields , but here are a few general principles : Targeting an audience for your papers can be a self-fulfilling prophecy . If you aim at a very specialized audience , it becomes much less likely that anyone else will read your papers . Attracting a broader audience is on the whole a good thing , both for scientific progress and for your own career , so it 's best not to limit your audience unnecessarily . If modest changes will make your writing much more accessible , then they are probably a good idea . It 's easy to overestimate how much readers really know . In an ideal world , every researcher would remember all the details of everything they ever studied , but life does n't work that way . Of course you ca n't re-teach things from scratch ( and should n't even try ) , but sometimes a brief reminder can be really helpful . This is particularly true when the details matter : if the reader really needs to know exactly how a certain algorithm works to understand your paper , then restating the algorithm can be worthwhile even if you suspect most readers will already be somewhat familiar with it . Those who already know the details can easily skim just enough to convince themselves that their version is the same as yours , while those who do n't can read more carefully . The introduction plays a crucial role in describing the context and explaining why you did these things and what the consequences are . It may not be the part of the paper that most excites you , but it will almost certainly be the most-read section ( not counting the abstract ) . The purpose of your paper is to communicate your discoveries , and making the introduction more accessible is sometimes the best way to achieve this .
I would n't make too much fuss about it . A simple short and polite email which states that the current state of affairs ( letters were sent , you were asked to wait for a week ) and inquires whether there were some problems with your application and what its status is . On the side note , a week waiting is not at all alarming in academia , unless some explicit deadlines are in place . I would wait for at least another 10 days before contacting the professor . I also agree with RoboKaren , it is highly unusual to apply to a professor . Therefore , another cultural/professional practices may apply in your case . However , a polite email is almost always acceptable ( whether or not it is ignored is another question ... ) .
You want your reader to be able to figure out what 's in the paper without reading through all the technical details , and then going through the trouble of synthesizing what you 've written to figure out the what the paper means . If you want your paper to have any impact at all , you need to put an executive summary somewhere in it . Whether you put all the details of the summary at the end of the introduction , or put a less detailed summary in the introduction , and expand on the details at the beginning of each section may depend on the author and/or the field . It may be that in your field , people expect summaries at the end/beginning of each section , and will look for them there . But if you 're careful about what you say and how you say it , you do n't need to repeat details from the introduction at the beginnings of the section , so putting the summaries at the beginning/end of the sections should n't use much extra space .
You want to be friendly , of course , and make a good impression . Depending on the school , these meetings are not usually too grueling ; one purpose of the meetings is just to put a face with your name . There is a good chance these meetings will end up being shorter than the scheduled time . Be prepared to give a very brief " elevator style " summary of your work . The deans may ask you about grant funding . You may have a good sense , depending on your field , how important grants are to you getting the position . ( Andy W mentioned this in the comments ) . Some particular questions I would ask include : I would ask all three : Where do you see the program/college/university going in another 10 years ? This can help you tell whether your vision for a school fits with theirs . I would ask the Dean of Science about tenure practices in the college . Do your homework and read the tenure policies before you arrive , of course . As long as you are polite and non-pushy , you can ask for clarifications for anything that is n't clear . You can ask about tenure rates in general , but do n't ask anything that would require talking about individual candidates . If you are in a field where grants are important , you should also be sure you know the weight given to grants when they make tenure decisions . If you will need anything unusual ( e.g. large start-up equipment costs ) , you should mention that to a departmental representative first , and they can advise whether it needs to be mentioned to the dean . If you are trying to arrange a second hire for a spouse , the dean may be able to discuss that . Again , you can talk with the department first . CAUTION : This bullet only applies to applicants who are also interested in finding a job for their spouse , and who have decided to bring up their spouse before getting an offer . There is n't room in this answer to get into the debate about whether it is preferable to wait until you have an offer to mention that your spouse is looking for a job , which is another commonly advocated strategy for applicants looking to find a job for their spouse at the same institution .
I underwent an interview recently from a prospective adviser , and I found the questions he asked of me to be pretty insightful - hence I 'm sharing them here . Why do you want to pursue research in this specific area ? This would highlight the candidate 's motivation in wanting to do research in a particular field - and would also tell the professor more about the candidate 's exposure to this area . What made you apply to this lab/university , as a continuation of the previous question ? The answer would tell you whether the applicant had simply browsed the rankings list of universities , or did he/she actually go through the research publications of the lab - and the application was done due to an intersection of the two ! What would you like to be doing post Ph.D. ? There is no " right " answer to this , but it also tells a lot about the candidate 's motivation in pursuing a PhD . Finally , you can ask the candidate to discuss any problem that he is familiar with in that field - does n't have to be anything fancy/complicated , but that would serve to highlight the clarity of the applicant 's reasoning , communication skills , and level of exposure to the field .
Short answer : no ( do n't bother ) . More nuanced answer : it depends . Is your paper of earth-shaking significance in some way ? Is it going to appear in some renowned journal ( Nature , PNAS , Lancet , Journal of the ACM , etc. ) ? If not , it is little more than a waste of time to try to add the information to your application . Late information is rarely added to application packets ( which these days are anyway handled almost entirely online -- convenient in certain ways but makes for an additional hassle when it comes to adding to or correcting an application or supporting documentation ) . However , if you have corresponded with some professor you would like to work with at the grad school that you are applying to , and have reason to believe this professor might be interested and able to influence the admissions committee , then I would certainly take the time to send a polite e-mail to this person indicating that your paper was accepted in such-and-such notable journal or conference . I would however avoid bringing up a rejection , and would also not take the trouble in case of acceptance of a less important article ( or one in a less-respectable forum ; e.g. , an op-ed in your college newspaper ) .
Google yielded <URL> : Book/article titles and names written in Latin-based scripts ( French , Spanish , German , etc. ) can be cited with only minor adjustments . Provide a translation of the title in square brackets . Do not translate names written in Latin-based scripts . Titles and names written in non-Latin scripts ( Chinese , Arabic , Russian , etc. ) must be transliterated before translating and citing . If you are uncomfortable transliterating material yourself , do n't guess -- get help ! Titles should be transliterated and translated into English . Names should be transliterated ( not translated ) and arranged in " Western " order , e.g. , ordered by surname in reference list . ( Follow the link to see examples )
As you 've described it , this sounds rather odd . Reviewers are under no obligation to accept a paper to review , so to accept one and then submit what sounds from your description like a complete cop-out is strange behaviour . It 's also a bit odd for the editor to send you completely uninformative comments . It 's possible that they genuinely did write a review , but that the text has been copied mistakenly , either by the reviewer or by the editor . It might therefore be worth sending a brief email to the editor to enquire about this review . Something along the lines of : " Thank you for consideration of our paper . In the copy that I received one of the reviews does not contain any comments , only text from our paper . I just wanted to double-check that the correct version has been sent through , in order to make sure that I can respond effectively to all of the reviewers . " Be very polite , and make sure you phrase it as a request for clarification , rather than a complaint . If it turns out it was their genuine review , you are of course allowed to care - it 's a bit frustrating if one of the reviewers has not fulfilled their role properly . But it 's not a big deal , and there 's not much that you can or should do about it . Some journals only get comments from two reviewers anyway , so just think of it that way and ignore the third .
You have to specify which discipline , but for the social sciences the statement of purpose is the most important item in your portfolio . We also look at grades , GREs , and letters but we scrutinize the statement the most . A good statement can resuscitate a candidate with middling grades , a bad statement can condemn an otherwise good student .
( US-specific ; public university ) You 'll find a huge variation in procedures across universities . There really is n't one standard method . Having said that , I can at least suggest what happens in ( one ) American public universities ( private universities have different financing structure ) Financing : In our universities , " slots " are line items that are approved by the legislature and are created ultimately by approval of the president of the university in conjunction with the dean of the college . There 's a lot of negotiating that goes on to acquire one of these slots , and it 's typically based on some " soft " arguments : " look how much research money we 're generating , and how many students we 're bringing in " and hard arguments : " We can only get this gigantic grant if you promise to give us a faculty slot " and so on . Selection : departments are usually quite protective of the search process , and control most aspects of it . Again , the degree of shielding depends on politics : it 's not unheard of for deans to get actively involved , especially if the department is weak . Within the department , the chair might take charge of selection , or assign a committee to do it , and so on . Official stuff : a contract is ultimately signed by the university , and all official paperwork must go through them . Negotiations also happen with the dean via the chair . HR : They 're usually involved initially , to make sure job ads are posted correctly , and in compliance with university , state and federal employment laws . They 're also involved after the offer is made , especially if there are legal requirements , international issues and so on .
While I think the other way around ( transitioning from the humanities to the sciences ) might be harder , if you can demonstrate that you are serious and prepared to undertake graduate training in the humanities , it is definitely doable . In my sociology department ( PhD track , we did n't have a separate MA program and most entered straight after undergraduate school ) , many of my colleagues did not have any sociology training . While most of them came from related fields of economics , political science , and psychology , there were people with math and physics backgrounds and these were sometimes the people who were doing the most innovative and interdisciplinary work . The selection committee was fine with accepting them as long as their proposed research area fit with the department faculty 's research and they showed promise as a sociologist . While a degree in the field is n't necessary , make sure you address how you have been working to fill the gap you have on your CV . A personal statement will be a good place to address this . In addition , you can take additional courses , read as many works in your proposed field , and try to have a well developed study plan to give confidence to the committee that you are as competitive as the other candidates . It might be a good idea to also build contacts with professors in schools that you are applying for and go talk to them to see if they will be interested in working with you . If you plan to specialise in a society other than where you are based in ( especially in case of anthropology ) , make sure you demonstrate regional expertise , language skills , knowledge of the society , or maybe work and/or living experience . Also , since those departments ( in case of a PhD program ) will likely ask for a writing sample , start working on one well in advance so the committee can see that you can indeed to the work in the proposed field .
You can use to search for phrases in the title ( no space after the colon ) and similarly you can use to search in the body .
[ Expanding @Thomas 's comment into an answer , so the question may be resolved ] The best way to figure out how a person would like their name listed is to simply ask them directly , as opposed to attempting to infer it from their biographical information . Thus , when you are putting together the program , name tags , etc. let the form have a blank saying something like : Name , as you would like it to appear in the official conference program Note that sometimes people want something different on their badge and on official listings , so it 's worth having two blanks if you are asking about badges as well .
First , note that a course on OOP is probably not the same as a course just on C++ . The C++ language was designed by Stroustrup to support the developer in multiple styles of programming , including OO . C++ today has become such a huge and complex language , moreover one for which which professional programming style has significantly evolved since the 98 standard . For example , its support for and take-up of functional programming has grown significantly . I 'm assuming you want to do well on the course , as opposed to simply learning skills . Now , it 's a long while since I 've had a look at Deitel and Deitel , and I ca n't say I 've good memories of it . However , hopefully the book is recommended because does take an approach supporting the OOP of the course and the subset of C++ you are expected to learn on the course . So go ahead and get the book . Having said that , if you really want to learn C++ itself well enough to be able to use it as a professional , be prepared to buy a few more books and put in a lot more work after you 've done this introductory course .
Good question . I am a tenured ( associate ) math professor at UGA . To be ( too ? ) honest , I sometimes find graduate visitation days to be slightly awkward . With most of the students , they and I want to have something to talk about ; for many of the students , we will have something to talk about at some future point ; for a few of the students , we will become so close that it will be hard to remember these first awkward conversations . I just remembered a visitation day where I almost sullenly plopped myself down at a barroom table next to a certain prospective student and a bunch of current students . They were more trying to have a conversation than actually having a conversation . At one point the topic turned to some elementary topology problem the prospective student had in mind for some reason . One of the current students was studying topology and she got interested and started to try to work it out . Alas I was still bored , and after a few minutes I quietly uttered a few words . The current student paused for a second , then her eyes lit up , and very soon after I got my chance to politely excuse myself and get another drink . That prospective student is now my PhD student , but the bond was not forged on that day . But still , we should try . 1 ) I hear you study X. I 've studied only a little bit of it so far , but I remember learning about Y. Can you tell me a little about your work ? " Can you tell me about your work ? " is a very natural question that sadly can often be a showstopper . The honest answer for many professors when talking to perfectly capable students who may later turn out to be their students is often " Not very meaningfully , no . " Above I tried to frame the question in a little better way . How is it better ? Well for one thing , asking a professor in a department you 're visiting what they do can come off as lazy : almost everyone has a wealth of information available on their webpage now . If the student really cared , would n't they look a little bit in advance ? So the framing of the question shows that the student has looked a little bit in advance . It also clues the professor in to what might be an appropriate level at which to pitch the explanation . If X is number theory ( as it is for me ) , then if Y is " Wilson 's Theorem " I 'm going to say something very different than if Y is " the Chebotarev Density Theorem " . Still it 's probably best not to say too much . I remember asking one professor this when I was a prospective student and he said , " Yes , I study number theory , as do several other faculty members here . I guess what distinguishes me is that I 've also become very interested in representation theory , and my work uses that to a larger extent than the others . Does that make sense to you ? " The person who said this to me was Dick Gross , and yes it did make sense , and as a two sentence orientation to who he was and what he did it functioned brilliantly then and it still does , but I see now what a lot of confidence and experience he must have had to know to say so little . And he asked me if I understood , and if I had n't he probably would have said something else : he seemed like a nice guy ... and it turns out that he is . ( I do n't remember what I said after that . I think it would have been like me at the time to try to show some knowledge by asking a question -- that 's a young math student type of thing to do . So I 'll imagine that I asked " What kind of representation theory ? " because I would have known that there were finite groups , Lie groups and so forth . And Gross would have replied " Algebraic groups " . At that point I would have had to admit that I was totally lost ... and my being lost would be of no lasting significance : suffice it to say that I have since learned about that topic ! ) 2 ) Do you do any computer work ? I think that 's an increasingly important question . Nowadays a math student has to locate himself on the spectrum of more computation / less computation . If you 're thinking about working with a faculty member , you definitely want to know this . 3 ) Are you interested in real-world applications of your work ? Have you ever done any consulting or other outside work ? Again , a key question . You should already be starting to think about these sorts of questions for yourself . I , for instance , have absolutely zero contacts in industry , so I would be a terrible advisor for a student who was inclined in that direction , even if we had common mathematical interests . 4 ) How long have you been here ? That 's a nice question for one human being to ask another . The professor will probably respond with some personal information about the town or their housing situation or their family or ... something . 5 ) Where did you get your PhD ? You would think that would be a kind of backward-looking question to ask a professor , but actually academics ask each other that kind of thing all the time . Sad to say we really do try to have little portions of the CVs of hundred
Is it hard to resume education after working in industry ( assuming ' ideal ' conditions such as work related to chosen field , good master project from good university etc. ) ? In short : NO . I did exactly that and I think that was a great thing . Being in computer science , this gave me solid experience in software engineering and pragmatics of " real-world " solutions . The benefits I feel till now ( after completing my doctoral studies and working as a relatively senior post-doc ( 3 + years after thesis defence ) are these : 1 ) good feeling for what " societal " problems are and how does my research translate to practice ( at least hypothetically , but in a plausible way ) and 2 ) allows me to be involved in applied projects in any role from low-level programmer , through technical lead to project manager . All this is vital in writing project proposals and project execution . In a nutshell : experience in industry , when used wisely , can give you an " entrepreneurial " attitude , which definitely is an advantage over students who plunge to doctoral studies right after completing their master 's degree . The only slight downside is that you might end up as one of the oldest PhD students in the group . But I never perceived it as a problem . Finally , all the above applies to experience in European context ( in particular : DE , NL , BE ) . I have no clue about the cultural issues regarding your question in other parts of the world . Later edit : When it comes to the emotional and lifestyle part of the decision , of course there are issues to consider . Going from an industrial position to doctoral studies is almost always a financial downgrade . Perhaps more in countries where a PhD student has a student status ( US , UK ) , than in places which treat PhD students as university ( public ) employees ( DE , NL ) , salaries tend to be higher in the latter . My own attitude , however , was this : since at that point I did not have kids yet , I always thought that should the life demand more money , or when I wo n't like the academic life , with the sound experience from industry I should n't have a problem going back any time . This definitely took a huge amount of pressure from my shoulders while pursuing my PhD , since I did not worry about my future ( in career , or financial terms ) - unlike my " purely academic " peers . Even till now , I feel confident ( perhaps I fool myself ) that should the academic path not work out in the next few years , it 's not going to be the end of the world for me ( again unlike for some of my peers ) . To sum up : with the confidence that I am fit for industrial career , I can pursue my passion in academia , rather being under pressure to produce . So I would add this as yet another benefit . P.S. To a more extreme note : I can point fingers to at least two people who after a long career in industry embarked on doctoral studies in their 50s and became successful researchers in their fields afterwards . Similarly , there are many people who after completing their PhD went to industry for awhile ( 5-10 years ) and later came back to academia - though that feat seems to be harder to manage than the previous one . So everything is possible ...
Something along the lines that you persisted and managed to graduate despite that the life as you know it was being destroyed in a war-torn county . The hardships of war , hunger , constant fear for safety ( or whatever you feel like sharing ) gave priority to the survival . As the result your grades in the final years suffered . You are eager to continue your education in the safety of whereever you are applying , and ready to give it your all without the distractions of the war . The point you want to make is that you graduated during the whole crisis , which is truly impressive . Congratulations on that . It shows the character and persistence . Grades you can fix .
Requirements vary widely from program to program and from institution to institution . Some programs require a doctoral candidate to publish in a peer-reviewed journal ( probably most programs would take issue if you did n't publish or present anything ) . Most programs ( or committees ) would n't let you graduate with a PhD unless you published at least once , and would expect at least twice . My general hunch is that a doctoral dissertation ( rarely called a " doctoral thesis " ) is generally several times longer . While a masters thesis might be 20-50 pages , dissertations are routinely 80-150 pages ... and sometimes way more ( this varies widely by discipline , by the academic culture of your institution , and by your committee ) . Some programs allow the doctoral candidate to use three publications , combined into a single manuscript , as his or her dissertation . Lastly , the doctoral degree is intended to show that the recipient can perform original research . Masters degrees have a wide variety of understandings or intents , from " the recipient passed our comprehensive exams " , to " the recipient performed an original research project and published it " . Whatever you 've done for your masters thesis , focus on research for your PhD . Learn what interesting questions are in your field and choose one to focus on . Read the background literature to learn how others have approached the problem . Work with your advisor and committee to figure out how you can contribute something new and useful to the field , and then do it . Publish your findings in a journal ; present your results and network with peers at conferences . Finally , write it all up in your dissertation , defend it , and graduate . That sums up getting a PhD . The rest are details . You may find <URL> useful .
end question
start question
When should I cite , if using code from Stack Overflow ?
The important distinction to make here is between : Intellectual contributions to the actual research/science . Technical help . Contributions of the first kind are -- roughly speaking -- what warrants authorship or , if the contribution is already published , a citation . With other words : If the contribution would warrant authorship if unpublished , it has to be cited . As already stated , this is somewhat simplified and distinguishing between when to cite and when to include as an author can sometimes be tricky , but it should give you a rough idea , as to what you have to cite . Also note that there are other reasons for citing , such as context embedding , which do not apply here , however . Two lines of code ( to take this example ) almost always fall under contributions of the second kind : They help you with the tools you need to use for your research but not with the actual subject of your research . It 's roughly comparable to the contribution of somebody fixing the microscope you need for some biological research . Of course , it might be a very helpful contribution that saved you months of work ( in which case you should consider mentioning it in the acknowledgments ) , but it 's not a scientific contribution . However , the decision may not always be that easy . Apart from the aformentioned authorship criterion ( also note the <URL> tag on this site for this ) , asking yourself the following questions might help to solve the question : Is the kind of contribution to your work fundamentally different from : designing the programming language you used , designing or building your CPU , designing or building your microscope ? If yes , consider citing . Does the contribution affect the results of your research or is it necessary for others to reproduce your research ? By results I here mean something like : The 666th digit of  is 6 . The proposed algorithm outperforms the current standard method . and not : I managed to compute the results before the deadline . Unfortunately , the results do not make any sense , probably due to some bug . If yes , then you should consider citing . If , on the other hand , you have good reason to assume that somebody implementing your solution in a totally different programming language or calculating everything with pen and paper would arrive at the same results , then you should not cite . Contributions of the second kind are what , amongst others , you can put in your acknowledgements , where in a thesis it 's usually up to you , who and how many people you mention .
I would be pragmatic here . Citations are a currency in science . If the authors of a tool help your research by providing the tool to the general public , it is only fair to reference their work in the way they requested it to happen - and , certainly , citing a given reference in a paper that uses their work is not an unreasonable request . I can not image why it would be unethical to say something like We have used Theano [ 1 ] to evaluate XY ( ... ) in your paper , where [ 1 ] J. Bergstra , O. Breuleux , F. Bastien , P. Lamblin , R. Pascanu , G. Desjardins , J. Turian , D. Warde-Farley and Y. Bengio . " Theano : A CPU and GPU Math Expression Compiler " . Proceedings of the Python for Scientific Computing Conference ( SciPy ) 2010 . June 30 - July 3 , Austin , TX As to whether this is common , I would say yes . Most authors of well-known tools in my area specify a preference for how their work should be acknowledged . If you are bothered by not having read the paper you are citing , there is a simple fix for that - read the paper , and decide for yourself whether it is worth citing in that context ( but , generally , the answer will be yes ) .
Confession : I 've tried this myself TWICE in the field of mathematics , so what I say comes from my own experience . You need not worry about the existence of a caste-system among graduate students . You will not be treated any differently than any other student if you are accepted into a program and not funded . The main question is whether or not you will get into the program in the first place if you have no external funding sources ... In science-related graduate schools , it is quite often the case that students will not be accepted into the program unless they have some sort of support ( i.e. department assistantship , scholarship/fellowship , etc. . . ) . Students who try to do it all on their own often find themselves under even more pressure than a funded student . On top of trying to pass extremely difficult courses and pursue original , cutting edge research , they may find themselves also working multiple unrelated jobs that barely make ends meet for rent , much less tuition and all other debts incurred along the way . Often , unfunded students succumbs to financial pressures and drop out to pursue more financially stable opportunities . Students dropping out of graduate programs also make their host departments ' statistics look bad in the eyes of their superiors ( i.e. deans , university president , provosts , etc. . ) and can lead to diminished support for those graduate programs . Since universities do n't want to hurt their own reputations ( or lose state/donated funding ) , they tend to be selective of their graduate students . And I believe this is a major reason why self-funded students are often not even allowed in graduate programs : statistically speaking , their success rate is likely too low to merit taking a chance . Of course there are exceptions ( e.g. having wealthy parents , pursuing non-science graduate programs , education doctorate degrees often earned by people who work full time as teachers ) , but it is certainly a red flag if a student willingly tries to pursue a graduate degree in the sciences without any source of funding . My advice to you : If you 're offered funding , take it ! . If you are accepted into a graduate program and are not offered funding and do n't have any other source of funding apart from yourself , then do n't try to do it all on your own . The sheer cost of graduate school , combined with the uncertainty of you graduating from the program , along with the nightmare of trying to pay off student loan debt for the rest of your life ( even bankruptcy will not save you from student loan debt ) ; it 's just not worth it to you .
Immediately before the definition , you could say " Quoting verbatim from [ source ] , we define a [ whatever-it-is ] as follows : " That is , in general , thinking in terms of honesty/forthrightness is an excellent guide .
I suppose the easiest way would be to use the command in LaTeX . Put something like this before your : Use it as follows . If you want to change the reference to a citation or another format , you can replace the contents of the As far as to " What is the best way to cite a website URL ? " the answer generally is that there is n't a standard . Personally , I use web sites as a citation if it contributes some kind of important intellectual argument to the paper . If I use web sites as a footnote , it 's because it has to do with some kind of tool I used and is there simply to inform the user that I used Tool XYZ . Using your example , if I said in my paper , " We used the Google search engine to identify evidence of bias in search engine results " I 'd probably put that as a footnote , whereas if I said , " Company web sites from Google , Microsoft , and Apple about employment all state that having fun at work is important " may be citations . ( I should finally note that this is a personal convention rather than anything spelled out in a styleguide , but maybe it helps you ? ) .
I 've seen some workshops in the CS field ( more specifically in a subfield of Software Engineering , e.g. VaMoS - see <URL> - , in which there is a kind of " precirculation of papers " , before the event take place . The workshop format includes a kind of " discussion session " , in which , before attending the event , one paper is sent to an attendee other than the paper 's ( set of ) author ( s ) , so that he/she is in charge of reading the paper and preparing some discussion slides . During the event , after the paper 's presentation , the discussant will provide attendance with his/her point of view on the paper , thus promoting the actual " discussion session " . Indeed , it is a small-scale precirculation of papers , in a sense that a paper is sent previously to only a few people ( usually an author of another paper ) . However IMHO such a format provides event 's participants with an interactive environment ( in the worst case , at least you , as a paper author , will be sure that at least one another peer has read you paper ... lol ) . Quoting the mentioned <URL> : Each session will be organized such that discussions among presenters of papers , discussants and other participants are stimulated . Typically , after a paper is presented , it is immediately discussed by pre-assigned discussants , after which a free discussion involving all participants follows . Each session is closed by a general discussion of all papers presented in the session . To be very honest , I guess it 's not feasible to do such a thing in big conferences , due to time constraints , but for small ( and focused ) events , like workshops , I guess this idea is very welcome . As I said before , there are some other workshops that follow this same format : <URL> and <URL> .
I always use Dr. ______ whenever I am e-mailing someone at a university and do not know if they have a doctorate . If they do have a doctorate , I have n't insulted them . If they do n't , they chuckle and are pleased .
It is generally sufficient to say explicitly that " in this section we will recall the method X from [ citation ] " , and then simply do it . However , you may find it preferable not to quote equations and text from the original paper , but to adopt it according to the style , notation and message of your own manuscript .
some have suggested complaining or going to some authority , but offer no specific suggestions about how to do this First , you need to understand how the authority chain is structured in academia . Your first course of action is to confront the instructor , which you 've already done . The next step up would be the department head , and after that , the dean of the school -- but I would n't recommend going past the department head with your complaints . You need to do this very carefully . You need to be level-headed , respectful , factual , and specific . Be sure your case is compelling . In the event of a " he-said/she-said " debate , assume the department head will probably lean toward having the faculty member 's back , rather than believing an offended student . Many students are too quick to complain when things do n't go their way , making it easy for complaints to fall on deaf and jaded ears . For example , in the scant details you 've provided here : Assignments are graded without rubric . I wo n't dispute the value of rubrics , but this is hardly a grievous offense . Many instructors do n't opt to use rubrics . Homework is graded inconsistently with instructions . This will be very hard to prove . A lot of assignments are by nature subjective , and it 's hard to pinpoint why grades are given the way they are . Students often turn in work that is inconsistent . For example , say I assign some problem to be answered with an essay question . One student gets right to the heart of the matter , but the overall work is sloppy , and it reads like a draft that was hastily written 10 minutes before class . Another misses the point a little bit , but the essay is carefully crafted and has a lot of supporting detail . A third addresses the matter from an angle I had n't considered before . How are my instructions supposed to cover all those cases , and more ? ( Moreover , assignment instructions are often very hard to get right the first time around , because you do n't yet know how students might misinterpret stated requirements . ) Tests are very hard , but contain no relationship to the course assignments and lessons . The first part of that is not a problem , although the second part is . If you start out by complaining about difficult tests , you may come across as a whiner and get very little sympathy or support . Be very careful about even mentioning that " tests are very hard . " You 'll also have to figure out what you want the end goal of your complaints to be . Do you want action taken before the semester is over ? Or are you only looking to give feedback so that next year 's students do n't find themselves in the same unfortunate circumstances ? If you 're hoping for intervention this term , probably the best you could hope for is for the department head to counsel the instructor , urging him to get his act together before the end of the term . But there are two sides to every story , and , unless your complaints are true on a large level , you 're unlikely to get much sympathy . In other words , a bad question here and there on an exam is part of getting a new course underway , as are confusing assignments . If these are just normal " growing pains , " you 'll come off as a malcontent . On the other hand , if these are verifiable , wholesale shortcomings in the ability to conduct a course fairly and effectively , you might get a department head to step in , and urge the professor to get his act together . Even then , though , you 'll probably have to make it to the end of the course , and you might see very little improvement . It 's unlikely that the instructor will be reassigned midstream . In short , you 'll have to convince the department head that this faculty member is bordering on incompetence , and that it 's not merely a case of an unpopular professor . This might be a tough sell .
The reason for no response may be anything from what Anthony Labarre mentions to what you list . I would wait at least a month before writing off an answer ; I have received answers even later than that . It is possible they are working on improvements themselves as well . In short , if you do not get a reply , you can only try again and perhaps express your request differently . You seem to have contacted all the authors . Sometimes the project leader may be too busy to pick up on questions and the younger team members may be more inclined to answer . They may , however , want to talk it over among themselves , and it is probably not a high priority . So try again in a couple of weeks . If you do not get any response , then there is probably not much you can do . You probably need to think about what can do to improve the chances for a reply . The word " collaboration " is sometimes a good way to " sweeten the deal " . Sometimes , just to give a perspective , I get requests for data that are of the sort , give me this or that , give me everything , and I often end up asking myself , why should I ? having laboured to generate the data . I am not saying you must follow such an approach to be successful but considering why the other researchers would want to help you may also help towards solving the communication problem .
The norm for secondary sources varies by field , and it is generally suggested that you follow what is normal in your field . As I note in my answer to this related question , <URL> - some institutions insist on secondary citations , like Columbia , while some style guides ( APA ) permit secondary source citation . IEEE on the other hand explicitly calls out not to use secondary sources , period . If you were in any of the fields I work in ( computer science , psychology , HCI , etc. ) which use APA/IEEE styles , I would suggest a third option : cite paper B if it is important , and do n't accept that you first have to read the whole chain of papers leading up to B. Saying " B is important for [ reason ] , and shows an important historical method that is not used here " , and cite it . You do n't have to understand every aspect of it in detail to get the gist and determine if it should be cited or not .
It is entirely appropriate to cite notable tools . How to cite , exactly , depends on the origin and nature of the tool . If the software is closely tied to a scientific work , then you should cite both the website and the key associated paper . The website will typically instruct you on the preferred paper to cite . If it is not tied to a paper , just cite the software . Authorship of software typically falls into three cases : A personal creation , by one or a few people : cite those people as authors , e.g. . <URL> is authored by Michael Mateas and Andrew Stern . A organization : cite the organization as author , e.g. , <URL> is by Sun Microsystems . An informally organized open source community : leave author blank or put " X Development Community " , as weight of authorship is unclear and set of authors is constantly in flux .
Remember the guiding principle of maximum ease in following a reference . If you do n't know which author , cite primarily to the book . From " Book title " , by x , y , and z In fact , even if there is only one author , it is good to cite the book .
I agree that honesty is the best policy , and it 's too bad if you 're in a situation in which you feel worried about admitting you do n't know the answer . You should n't try to bluff , by pretending you know but do n't have time to explain or by giving an intentionally vague answer . However , there are ways of handling it more smoothly than just saying " I do n't know " and leaving it at that . Depending on the circumstances , you can say " That 's a really interesting question . I have n't thought about it , so I 'll have to look into it , but let 's talk about it in office hours . " ( Or you can promise to return to the topic in the next class meeting if it 's really relevant to the course and everyone in the class will want to know the answer . ) Or " These issues can be complicated . I do n't know the details off the top of my head , but the place I 'd look them up is Reference Work X. I 'd be happy to show you where to find it after class . " Or " That 's a good question , but it 's somewhat beyond the scope of this class . I 'd be happy to investigate it with you outside of class . " The key is to respect the student 's desire to learn . If you avoid the question or give an answer you know is inadequate , then you 're being deliberately unhelpful . If you just give up and admit defeat , then at least you 're being honest , but the student still is n't finding out what he/she wanted to know . If you respond by pointing the student on the road to an answer , even if you ca n't supply it off the top of your head , then you 've done everything that can be expected of you .
I 'm not certain what you mean by an article with an independent page numbering system , but I assume you mean the following . The published journal article is , say , on pages 25-48 of the journal , but there is also a preprint available online with different formatting , and it is numbered from 1-23 . Not only the page divisions , but even the number of pages differ , so there 's no easy way to transfer a reference between these numberings except approximately . The most important rule is to be clear and correct : you should leave no doubt or ambiguity about which numbering system you are using . If you cite only one version of the paper , then you should use the same numbering used there . If you cite several versions , then you need to make sure your references are clear . The second rule is that you should focus on the " most official " version of the paper , whatever that is . In most cases , a journal paper is more official than a conference paper , which is more official than a numbered technical report in a series , which is more official than a random preprint . You want to cite the most final , complete , and authoritative version , and the one most likely to be accessible to future readers . There may occasionally be subtle cases ( for example , a paper that has been reprinted in books with corrections or additions ) , but this generally means the journal version . P.S. . The only other interpretation of the question I can think of is for journals like Physical Review , where an article has its own page number ( like 032326 ) and then the individual pages are given subsidiary numbers ( like 032326-1 through 032326-8 ) . In that case , if you want to cite a specific page you could refer to it as 032326-3 , or maybe just 3 if the context is clear . In the bibliography , you would write 032326:1 -8 or just 032326 , depending on your bibliography style .
Ask for the code . Please do , however , explain why you want it and what you intend to use it for . Personally , I would be quite happy if someone contacted me about my research , and would try to give all the necessary tools to recreate my data . Especially so if I am not currently working on a follow up piece . That said , I 've asked for parameters , codes , procedures etc. several times from the authors when the description in a paper has been vague . I 've had a lot of different responses : Some have plain ignored me , others have given me everything I asked for , and yet others have only obliged when I 've suggested that I might be willing to put them as co-authors if I built upon their code in a way that leads to a publication . Finally , some have refused my request . This has happened for a number of reasons , for example those discussed in <URL> . If you ask for code and say that you just want to verify some of the conclusions of the authors or use it as a reference for your own implementation , you can most typically expect a refusal or no reply . This , at least , is the experience I 've had .
I agree with blackace that you should probably be OK , but let me sketch what some of the drawbacks are : Ideally , an application to math grad school will have recommendations from mathematicians . The further you get away from that , the less meaningful the letters are . ( For example , at least once per year I see a letter from an English professor , which is utterly unhelpful . ) The basic issue is that you need recommenders who really understand what it takes to succeed in math grad school and as a mathematician . Fortunately , physics is close enough that physicists can do a pretty good job of judging this , so you should be OK . In my experience , the admissions committee will worry about two things : One is that physicists may not appreciate certain math-specific issues . For example , the expected coursework and background . A physicist may not fully understand the extent to which someone 's background is nonstandard or deficient for the math program they are applying to . A second reason is the belief that most people 's standards go down a little when making recommendations for other fields . If someone is applying to the top schools in your field , you know very well what the standards and competition are like , and you have something invested in the system and your own reputation as a recommender . In practice , recommenders from other fields seem to be a little more cavalier about making strong recommendations based on a feeling that the applicant is smart , rather than a comparison with the rest of the applicant pool . This means recommendations with be taken with a grain of salt . So if you have equally good prospects for letters writers from math and physics , you should choose the mathematicians for math applications . On the other hand , a physicist who knows you is still a good choice , much better than a mathematician who does n't know you . ( But a mathematician who does n't know you is a better choice than an English professor who does . )
The illegal act of course is the download , never the citation . @Federico Poloni answered that correctly . However : If they are n't available in the university library , if you ca n't really afford the books besides the possibilities @StasK mentioned : In many countries there exist inter-library catalogues ( e.g. <URL> ) that tell you which libraries have the book you 're looking for . Once you know that ( or your local librarian found out for you ) , you can ask your local librarian to either get the whole book via inter-library loan , or to order a partial copy ( e.g. the chapter or the exact pages you need ) . There are also commercial document delivery services ( see for an example : <URL> ) . Which offer tracking down documents and again either loan of the book or partial copies . Even the linked commercial service charges only 9 $ per book inside Germany for non-commercial customers and 25 $ worldwide for commercial customers but excluding UK and USA ( I do n't know why ) . If you 're talking about a thesis : university libraries usually have a copy at least of all PhD theses done at that university , for Bachelor or Master theses you 'd often have to ask the institute ( or supervisor ) where the work was done . In Germany , the <URL> has a copy of each book published in Germany or in German ( or about Germany ) from 1913 on . There are also field-specific large libraries , as for example the <URL> for technical literature . So , are you sure " ca n't really afford " is a valid argument ? ( Whether you nevertheless download pirate copies , or ask your neighbour to let you have a look into her book , or buy it despite the fact that the neigbour at the other desk owns it as well , stays entirely your own choice . ) If I have to get a book by inter-library loan , I try to make a copy of the vital chapter . This is legal here in Germany ( single copies for personal use , reseach or teaching of not too large part of a book ) .
The important distinction to make here is between : Intellectual contributions to the actual research/science . Technical help . Contributions of the first kind are -- roughly speaking -- what warrants authorship or , if the contribution is already published , a citation . With other words : If the contribution would warrant authorship if unpublished , it has to be cited . As already stated , this is somewhat simplified and distinguishing between when to cite and when to include as an author can sometimes be tricky , but it should give you a rough idea , as to what you have to cite . Also note that there are other reasons for citing , such as context embedding , which do not apply here , however . Two lines of code ( to take this example ) almost always fall under contributions of the second kind : They help you with the tools you need to use for your research but not with the actual subject of your research . It 's roughly comparable to the contribution of somebody fixing the microscope you need for some biological research . Of course , it might be a very helpful contribution that saved you months of work ( in which case you should consider mentioning it in the acknowledgments ) , but it 's not a scientific contribution . However , the decision may not always be that easy . Apart from the aformentioned authorship criterion ( also note the <URL> tag on this site for this ) , asking yourself the following questions might help to solve the question : Is the kind of contribution to your work fundamentally different from : designing the programming language you used , designing or building your CPU , designing or building your microscope ? If yes , consider citing . Does the contribution affect the results of your research or is it necessary for others to reproduce your research ? By results I here mean something like : The 666th digit of  is 6 . The proposed algorithm outperforms the current standard method . and not : I managed to compute the results before the deadline . Unfortunately , the results do not make any sense , probably due to some bug . If yes , then you should consider citing . If , on the other hand , you have good reason to assume that somebody implementing your solution in a totally different programming language or calculating everything with pen and paper would arrive at the same results , then you should not cite . Contributions of the second kind are what , amongst others , you can put in your acknowledgements , where in a thesis it 's usually up to you , who and how many people you mention .
Small errors that do not affect the results or conclusions of the paper are normally handled through publication of a correction ( or erratum ) . This is handled by the journal editor , who will be in contact with the authors for confirmation that they agree as to it being an error , and provide for the exact correction to be published . The journal that published paper should have a policy on corrections , check it out ! Physical Review Letters 's editorial policies and practices state , for example : Errata . -- The Errata section contains notices regarding errors or omissions in papers previously published . Besides the standard Erratum , several special categories of documents may appear in this section . In the online journal , each of these documents involve bidirectional links between the original article and the document in the Errata section . The category of the corrective document is indicated in its title and in the link from the original article . The standard Erratum is a statement by the authors of the original paper that briefly describes the correction ( s ) and , where appropriate , any effects on the conclusions of the paper . Thus , what you should do is : Make double sure it is actually an error . Then ask someone else to double check it again . Preferably someone more senior , i.e. with some experience of academic publication . Write to the corresponding author , pointing out the error . Be nice , and make real sure not to assume to worst . You say " this is a pretty big mistake and suggests they have n't actually read the paper they referenced " : depending on context , it could actually be something minor like a copy-paste mistake ( pasting the wrong reference , when they meant another paper ) If you do not obtain a response , or they respond but do n't intend to correct the error , then consider contacting the editor . I can understand why , as an undergrad , you would consider contacting the editor directly without writing to the authors first . However , as long as you remain professional in your correspondence with them , I think it 's best to contact the authors first . It 's more polite , and they may actually be able to provide you with some explanation you have n't thought of . Contacting the editor before the authors is somewhat overdoing it ...
end question
start question
Is it ethical to use another university 's journal subscription if yours does n't have access ?
Is it against the law ? Probably . It it scientific misconduct ? A breach of ethics ? Hardly . It is acceptable ? It 's your decision to make based on risk analysis . If you do n't do it on a large scale ( i.e. someone supplying many people with papers ) , it 's probably okay . It is common practice . Also , be aware that many journal articles can now be found either in pre-print or post-print form online ( though this depends widely on your field ) , either on institutional repositories or on the authors ' webpages . If you 're merely missing access every once in a while , you can also nicely ask the corresponding author .
As editor I would not accept this in a publication . If it is published it should be referenced . Yes , it bumps the references for the authors and yes , bad science may attract a fair amount of citations for all the right ? / wrong ? reasons . But , it is not up to the authors to decide how referencing should be made , journals have guidelines that should be followed . Having the citation properly referenced makes it easier for others to find the article and see it for themselves . Furthermore , from another point of view the statement that something is " unscientific " is not appropriate either . It is an opinion . The cited paper can be unscientific but the academic way to show this is not to just say it but to prove it . Your quote is a specific case , of which I know nothing , so the reply concerns the general case but I would react if I saw something like that in a paper I edit and I would ask the authors to stick to facts . One last point is that if a paper is really bad , then it should be considered for retraction . That is how scientifically extremely poor , bordering on dangerous , papers are handled .
Working from a bibliography in another paper is not plagiarism . It 's actually a good research technique . As you read those papers , check their bibliographies , too , and so on . Pretty soon you will have thorough coverage of the subject . Do note that you can not just plop those 50-60 or so references into your own bibliography but do nothing else , nor paraphrase what someone else has said about them , but without reading them . That 's called reference padding and is academic misconduct . You have to actually read the papers . When you do that , you may find that some of them do n't fit your needs as well as you may have at first thought . You will also find it easy to write your own thoughts about those papers , and so will not have to worry about paraphrasing another author .
Your first concern is pretty close to the point . I really see no benefit in thanking the reviewers in a subsequent submission of the paper . It just takes you pretty close to a grey area where theoretically no harm would be done , but in practice there is often some degree of bias involved . Again , no benefit , only potential harm .
I would suggest that you investigate those interesting properties further and then have a paper along the lines of " this structure has this useful property , more-so ( or less-so ) than these other structures . " That is justify why someone would actually use this structure . Think about it from the editors ' point of view . Why should this paper be published ? If you ca n't provide an answer with a straight face then maybe you should wait until there is a purpose for it .
There are ZERO ethics involved . First , you suspect , but do not know , who the original reviewers were . You may be right , you may be wrong . Next , suggestions for potential reviewers are just that -- suggestions . It is the responsibility of the editor to pick appropriate reviewers , and your suggestions are just one potential source of information in the process of doing so . I 'd say even if you recommend people who you respect to referee your papers , they 'll surprise you regularly with critical reviews ( if they 're doing their job ) . The biggest ethical quandry you can get into in the process of recommending referees is probably some sort of pre-arrangement with those you suggest . This is to be avoided as less than stellar behavior .
I have made a request of this kind once , and it was granted by the editor . The referee in question was positive about the paper but had a significant misunderstanding of the subject area . The other referee had recommended acceptance of the paper in its current form . After a couple of rounds of refereeing , it seemed likely that resolving this misunderstanding might require many more iterations without any benefit to the paper . In this particular case , the associate editor handling the paper understood the subject area well enough to recognize this , and agreed to assign a new referee . Of course , starting from zero with a new referee after multiple rounds of revising is not ideal either , so consider carefully before you make such a request .
To answer the ( <URL> of the ) question in the title : Are scientific articles of public domain ? the answer is absolutely not , unless the relevant copyright holders declared it so or that its copyright has expired . Note that public domain is emphatically different from open access . To answer the question in the body : Is it legal for the university/organization to host a copy of an article , if this has been published on a conference or journal with paid access ? Does it matter if the authors of the article belong to that university/organization ? the answer is it depends . What does it depend on ? Very simply , the publication agreement or the copyright transfer agreement or the licensing agreement signed by the author when the article has been accepted for publishing . For example : Here 's <URL> Here 's <URL> <URL> for their journals . As David Ketcheson points out below , a great resource for checking the self-archiving and open access policies of is <URL> .
When an article is technically wrong , describes things that have been done dozens of times elsewhere or is just awfully written , then I recommend rejection , no matter the journal . After that , journal guidelines ( not the perceived or actual journal " quality " ) come into play : Match with the journal 's scope Journal requirements on novelty of ideas ( several journals are ok with articles that fill some gap in an otherwise well-understood field , but some very high-profile journals would like to see papers with significant novelty ) Methodological requirements ( e.g. some journals require that simulation results are validated against analytic results or measurement results ) So , there is some baseline , but afterwards it depends on the journal scope .
Believe it or not , there are <URL> ( Chicago &amp; MLA quoted there , others may be available ) and you may be able to take a similar approach . ( I like the MLA approach , which is reminiscent of the very old-fashioned approach of naming an untitled document after the " incipit " , its first words ... ) Alternatively , you could give it a placeholder title - - here the URL is the key element to find it and the bracketed element is just for the reader 's convenience . As to " should " ... if you would be happy to use this as a useful source had he published it in something unreviewed but with a title ( eg a personal blog post ) , then the absence of a title should n't really be the problem ...
Universities love to add bureaucratic layers and it is quite common for a university ( or schools within universities ) to carry out strategic planning to identify research priorities . A quick search reveals <URL> is to " Seize rapidly expanding opportunities in biomedical research to increase human well-being " and identifies human genetics , therapeutic discovery , neuroscience , bioengineering , immunology and microbial sciences , stem cell and regenerative biology , and systems biology as key areas that have the potential to connect fundamental science with clinical applications . <URL> includes a an " emphasis on interdisciplinary research and graduate education in order to expand our leadership in important fields and the collaborative atmosphere across our campuses . " They are <URL> Data Science , Engineering Biology , Global Health , Infectious Diseases , Neuroscience , Photonics , and Urban Health . <URL> of Cultures and Communication , Digital Futures , Health and Wellbeing , Sustainable Societies , and Transformative Technologies
Students have lots of reasons for taking courses and I do n't think I want to be in the business of telling students that there are right and wrong reasons to take a class . I certainly think it 's a good idea for prospective PhD students to think about who might be good letter writers early on in their program and to make sure they work with some of them -- not doing so can make the academic job market very difficult . I do n't see this as being substantively different . If you take the class , do well , and then ask for a letter , you might get a good one . Or you might not . So I 'd say go ahead . That said , there is something very mercenary about the way you have phrased your question that makes me skeptical . Do you really think that working with faculty would n't teach you anything ? If it 's true that the only reason you want to take a class is because of the letter you might get , something seems off . Maybe your interests are different enough from the professor 's that I 'm skeptical that this person would be such a great letter writer for what you want to do . Being able to excel in a Masters program means not resenting the idea that you may have to learn from professors when you could " just read the book . " I think it 's OK to take a class for a recommendation but you should use this as opportunity to learn something you are passionate about in ways you could not with just the textbook . Talk to the professor . Let them know you are an advanced and passionate student . Get feedback on your work . Go beyond what is just in the book . If you do that , you will get more than you would otherwise . In the process , you will also earn a much stronger letter . If you ca n't get over that hump , I suspect that your recommendations -- and your experience in grad school -- will underwhelm .
For a conference without integrity , it can of course simply accept whatever washes up on the shore . For a conference with integrity , however , there is generally a good deal of flexibility in the structure of a conference program . Putting together a program is always a delicate balance of talk length vs. number of tracks vs. plenary events like keynotes and panels vs. breaks , lunches , etc. . Thus , if the number of submissions is low , but still enough for a viable meeting , the organizers will simply end up with less papers and a more relaxed meeting pace . You can easily flex the number of talks up or down by 50 % in even a single track conference by playing with the schedule structure . For a multi-track conference , it 's even easier to scale the number of tracks . If the submissions are very low , to the point where it is impossible to fill even a very relaxed schedule with reasonable talks , that 's a different story . It 's unlikely to happen all at once , because it would take a remarkable collapse to be down by 50 % in a single year . In any case , societies like IEEE or ACM provide a conference with financial insurance , so that it will not be a complete disaster on a fiscal level , at least . The next year , however , the society may no longer be willing to sponsor the conference ...
The construction " and/or " generally betrays a weak sentence construction . It 's almost always possible to replace the use of " and/or " with a more satisfactory construction ( such as " either ... or " or " at least one of " ) . So while you are allowed to use it ( unless your style manual tells you otherwise ! ) , I think it 's always better to avoid it in such writing . ( One sign that it has not really gained widespread acceptance is the fact that most style manuals still tell you to eliminate " and/or " constructions entirely . )
" Trivial " often means " too simple to be a real problem " . For example , in an class on optimisation methods years ago , the lecturer said " for our first example , we 're going to study the problem of maximising the number of ones in a binary string of length n " . My thought for most of the class was " well , that 's bloody obvious -- you just write n ones in a row -- why are we looking at this " . I eventually realised that it was being used because it made it easy to describe how the algorithms worked , not because it was a challenging problem in any way . I think that 's a good example of where the word " trivial " is good shorthand -- the problem is n't of any importance , but it is being used to illustrate a point . This is similar to how trivial is used in a lot of pure mathematics , where it often means " the simplest example that satisfies the definition " ( like " the trivial group " ) . As with all such jargon , though , it is worth explaining to students what you are going to be meaning by the word " trivial " and why trivial examples are worth looking at at all .
Of course , as Enthusiastic Student says , you should check with your co-authors before sharing your unpublished work with anyone . Once that is done , you can certainly ask . Statisticians are very often asked to consult on the use of statistics in papers from other areas . So it 's possible that your institution has some system in place for such requests . You should check with your advisor and/or other people who have done this before . For example , some statistics departments have a " consulting pool " of graduate students who are available for jobs like this . Some statisticians may only be interested if they would be doing enough work to qualify for co-authorship on the paper ( see <URL> as linked by Stephan Kolassa ) . Or , they may want to be paid .
I do not see that sharing your knowledge would in any way be a problem per se . What could become a problem is if you also share copyright-protected materials . It is virtually impossible to list what might or might not be such materials but to take other persons presentations , images , data and then sharing it would be clearly illegal ( and unethical ) unless they are provided with a " license " stating they are free . If you take the knowledge you gather and then put it together somehow ( including making your own presentations on your own material ) , it should not be such a problem . In any circumstance where you want to use other peoples materials , it is always best to ask for permission . Not only does it save you possible future problems , you may find friends in the process . Watch out for materials published by commercial interests and use open source material ( but do give credit to those who made it - attribution is required by licenses like <URL> and it is also a nice gesture to acknowledge the work and time by the original authors ) . Much material is given out for public ( but not commercial ) use . A final advise , attach an open source license to your materials . I am not fully aware what licenses may apply but am sure many has good suggestions for you ( check Academia.sx or ask another question on that ) . So to sum up . I think it is a nice idea and perfectly fine , but be aware that you must be 100 % sure you do not publish materials so that you break copyrights or abuse licenses ( protect the open source practises ) .
I do not view it as generally unethical to refer to these solutions . This situation is more complex than I think some other answers have admitted . Here is a list of claims : In an ideal world , the point of homework is for the student to learn the material . In a perfectly ideal world , we would not need to grade homework , because students would do it on their own to master the material . They might refer to other people 's solutions to see if theirs are correct , and that would be fine . Experience shows this world is not perfect . Students will often skip ungraded homework , and their learning and exam grades will suffer . So instructors assign homework for a grade . But this is n't because the grade is really important : it 's because we want the students to do the homework and learn the material ! Some students then get the idea that the grade is the real goal of the homework , and simply copy their assignment from others . Professors often find this unacceptable . One important point that others have answered is that , if you are going to turn in the homework , what you turn in should reflect your own understanding of the assignment . But , equally importantly , it is important to let yourself struggle with problems for a while before looking up the answer . That is the only way to really learn how to solve problems . Most professors accept that the internet exists - we know you can look up other people 's answers . It used to be that fraternities had giant files of old homework and exam answers for this purpose ( maybe they still do ) . And students study in groups all the time - research shows study groups can dramatically increase learning . So getting help is not a bad thing . But you do n't want to get help too quickly . Make a genuine effort to answer the problems yourself first . If you find that you are looking up the answers to all the problems ( even the easiest ones ) , then something is off - try going for more tutoring , or studying more before doing the homework . If you find that you occasionally need to look up one of the most difficult problems , that 's perfectly normal ( but it still would n't excuse directly copying the solution into your homework , of course ) . Of course , the usual caveats apply : some professors may specifically tell you not to collaborate with anyone or use any other resources . But most professors know that students usually collaborate with each other on homework ( e.g. study groups ) and know that students can look up answers using other resources . We have no problem with that , as long as each student 's submission reflects their own understanding in the end .
Counterexamples notwithstanding , the practice certainly raises all sorts of questions about conflicts of interest : is the adviser providing unbiased advice , is the adviser unbiased in their assessment of the academic proficiency of the candidate , is the advisee independent to choose their research direction , etc. . In cases like this , nobody looks good -- people wonder about the judgment of the adviser , they wonder about the actual quality of the candidate if papers are jointly written , and they wonder about what 's going on in the department to let such things happen . As a consequence , people and departments are generally well advised not to let this happen , simply because the perception of a conflict of interest is oftentimes just as bad as the actuality of something improper happening .
You are generally allowed to publish even in a non-open access journal even if a pre-print is on the arXiv . Most journal copyright agreements explicitly allow the authors to post the article online . Here 's an example of a fairly generous one : The ASL hereby grants to the Author the non-exclusive right to reproduce the Article , to create derivative works based upon the Article , and to distribute and display the Article and any such derivative work by any means and in any media , provided the provisions of clause ( 3 ) below are met . The Author may sub-license any publisher or other third party to exercise those rights . and a less generous one which still allows the author to post a copy online : I understand that I retain or am hereby granted ( without the need to obtain further permission ) rights to use certain versions of the Article for certain scholarly purposes , as described and defined below ( " Retained Rights " ) , and that no rights in patents , trademarks or other intellectual property rights are transferred to the journal . The Retained Rights include the right to use the Pre-print or Accepted Authors Manuscript for Personal Use , Internal Institutional Use and for Scholarly Posting ; and the Published Journal Article for Personal Use and Internal Institutional Use . I 've seen examples where the journal actually did some genuine copyediting beyond what the referee did where the author was n't allowed to post the version that benefited from the copyediting , but could still post the earlier version . So , for most journals , the answer is that you 're allowed to post the article online because it 's specifically allowed by the document they ask you to sign . But it is possible that posting on the arxiv will rule out particular journals that have more restrictive policies .
end question
start question
Is there an advantage in including quotes from teaching evaluations in a teaching statement ?
I would consider student comments in teaching statements as " standard optional " : they are not required , and probably the majority of teaching statements do not include them , but a substantial minority do and it is certainly quite reasonable to do so . Here are some things to keep in mind : Your teaching statement is your chance to convey your philosophy of teaching and , in so doing , show yourself to be a clear thinker , competent writer and to possess fluency in English ( assuming that you are applying to a job where English is spoken ) . Including too many quotes by other people in a short statement works against this . I am a wordy person , but for me I think a teaching statement should be at least two pages long . If you have a 1.5 page teaching statement and a third of it is quotes , then I worry that you 're using the quotes to evade the short essay you 've been asked to write . Succeeding in an academic job is a lot harder than succeeding in writing a two-page essay , so that does n't inspire my confidence . The positive side of the last comment is that it would be much better not to just include quotes in a pile at the end but rather to use them to illustrate points about your own teaching . Drawing an explicit moral from each quote would not be overdoing it . Including quotes in your own teaching statement is a bit like including quotes on the back of a book saying how good it is . These quotes can be part of a successful sales pitch , but let 's be real : they are cherry-picked . ( If you 're not cherry-picking the very best quotes , you 're losing ground to everyone else who is . In particular , think ten times before including a quote that has the slightest hint of negativity or even measured praise about your teaching . Saying something negative about yourself in application materials is a black belt level sacrifice throw . ) The idea that you fundamentally gain legitimacy from a teaching statement by including the students ' own words is a dubious one to the jaded eye . Most of the eyes reading your application will be highly jaded . Consider feeding the quotes ( especially if you have more than one or two ) to a faculty member who can put them in a teaching letter . It is harder to write good teaching letters than good teaching statements . Along with cold , hard statistics about your teaching ( but be careful about introducing negativity , as above ) , including quotes from students is a good way to personalize the letter . ( Saying that Ms. X is clear , attentive and well-liked by students only fills up so much space , and almost everyone else is saying it too . )
The preferred details for typesetting your research statement are likely to be highly subjective . Different things are likely to be pleasing , striking , or off-putting , depending on the individual preferences of whoever is reading your application . I would agree that italics are one of the preferred methods to provide <URL> without being too flashy or distracting . Whether or not that is the appropriate choice for your research statement should probably depend to some extent on the style and content of the rest of your application as well . If you have access to a university writing center , you should try to speak with someone there to decide on the style and arrangement of your application . To speak to my own experience , I generally will not consider a candidate more capable or skilled in independent thought , rigorous work , or attention to detail , because it is typographically emphasized on their application .
In Germany , women are in some instances preferred over men for professor positions , to the point of excluding male applicants at all . There are scholarships and other forms of funding specifically ( and exclusively ) geared towards women ( at all levels ) . A prominent example is <URL> : [ Secretary of Education Schavan :] " There are not enough female professors , most university teachers are men . [ ... ] 260 new positions have been established [ between 2008 and 2012 ] thanks to the Female Professors Program and have been staffed with women . This is a success - but not nearly enough . Therefore we have initiated a second round . " [ ... ] Up to three [ female ] professor positions per university [ are possible ] . [ We make ] an additional 150 million Euros available for this purpose until 2017 . Best-effort translation by myself from the German original . There are professor positions offered only to women  . For one thing , there are " additional " positions like those mentioned above or e.g. at FU Berlin ( <URL> , <URL> ) . [ Departments ] could apply for being assigned [ such a position ] . [ ... ] [ The applicants ] must bring forward proof of at least one highly qualified female applicant .  Best-effort translation by myself from the German original . This is probably an effect of additional funds for women being available ( cf 1 ) . But also regular positions can be designated for women only , see e.g. these <URL> from FHTW Berlin ( page 8 ) : One of the two professor positions will be tendered twice as women-only position . The [ Academic Senate of the FHTW Berlin ] passes the motion [ with 9 yes , 0 no , 4 abstention ] . Best-effort translation by myself from the German original . Official statements regarding systemic discrimination ( of men ) are hard to come by ( even if it is effectively encouraged/enforced by policy at times ) . See some press on one case <URL> and <URL> . There are support structures available only to women , such as the concept of <URL> ( Am . women 's affairs officer ) ( who have special roles and privileges ) and often have funds spent on e.g. training seminars only open for women ( which is not always enforced ) . You hear stories , but there will often be no paper trail as these things can and tend to be decided behind the curtains . The way hiring of professors works in Germany , if the commission wants phenotype X , they can get it ( if they play their cards right ) . In the gender question , this may be a result of a ) policy makers demanding more female professors ( by way of blocking any other choice ) and b ) the funding situation ( cf 1 ) , esp . in the light of decreasing funding across the board . ) . They then say , " after the position has been assigned to the department , a regular hiring process ensues " . I 'm not clear if that means male applicants are admitted , or if only the process itself is a regular one .
It is what it is . Some schools give you less opportunity for teaching than others ( e.g. , schools in the UK ) . If you are looking for a research postdoc , then having a lot of teaching experience is not too important . For instance , at my institution , we want to make sure you 're competent and not going to cause problems , but you do n't need to have won five teaching awards . This is evidenced primarily by your teaching letter . If you think you can get a decent teaching letter now , then I would n't worry about it . ( Note : if you 're TAing now and probably wo n't be again before you apply , consider having someone who will write you a letter observe your class . ) If you 're looking for a " teaching postdoc , " e.g. a temporary position at a liberal arts school , they typically want more evidence that you 're a good teacher , so you might try to actively look for more teaching opportunities . Note : presumably many other students at your institution have the same issue . Try finding out how much TAing recent graduates did and what kind of jobs they got after graduating .
Yes , I would certainly mention it , especially when applying to schools where undergraduate research is a focus , or those that have a thesis-based masters program . The " teaching statement " does n't have to be limited to classroom teaching ; it is reasonable to mention any activities related to educating students .
In general , no , it wo n't . Having teaching experience might weigh in your favor in exceptional circumstances ( a graduate department that needs a lot of teaching assistants , and you 're " on the bubble " ; you 're going into an education program or something similar ; or the application specifically asks for teaching experience ) . However , most graduate schools do n't expect that students have prior teaching experience , and provide training to smooth the transition . Teaching load also varies widely from program to program : some science and engineering students TA for one semester over a five-year program , while humanities graduate students may have to TA every semester to pay for their studies .
In my opinion ( and three years working in the admission committee ) , it 's less about the tone but the arguments and evidences you cite in the statement . For tone , keep it overall professional and formal , do not use slang and do not write to them as if they 're your high school friends . Write as if you 're writing to a teacher you respect . For your arguments and evidences , I 'd suggest focusing on : A certain story and experience that gave you the epiphany , inspiration , or determination to pursue this study/career . Stay true to the experience and avoid using too many tacky expressions/cliches . Combination of training and past experience that have made you a unique and valuable member of the institute and field of study . Career aspiration with specific goals in mind . For instance , how would the degrees or positions enable you to achieve new goals . While the goals and aims can be of personal level , it 's important that you can also integrate your own goals into a larger system ( like the field of study , or the larger entities your field serves ) as well . The decision of whether to include some personality traits of one self is really situation-dependent . But if you want to let the committee know that you 're a " good communicator , " remember to provide concrete examples as well . Hope this helps and good luck ! ... the answers there kinda encourage to use informal tone . What do you think ? To me , being " informal " can mean , among many things , use of slang , figures of speech , and conversation-like writing style . Some of these do add color to the personal statement but I 'm reluctant to endorse the statement that one should go informally without clearly listing what kind of informal speeches are to be used . Even within figures of speech , some are more acceptable than others in a personal statement . " Deer in headlight " may be fine ; " a kick in the balls " is probably not . I 'd suggest , as I have said , do n't get bogged down by the tone . Be your polite and eager self , and make a case on the three points to persuade the committee members . Treat them like someone you respect and it should be fine .
Putting in place a better system for evaluating teaching than today 's student evaluation forms would be a good start . Getting serious about the assessment of student learning outcomes ( rather than simply assigning grades ) would also be extremely helpful .
I would be truly shocked if any hiring committee cared at all about whether you taught calculus versus pre-calculus . Doing well at either would show that you can adequately handle teaching service classes .
Some of this depends a lot on field and laboratory , and I do n't know the customs of physics . As somebody who has dealt with this question in both biology and computer science , however , let me give you some thoughts : Since you are n't aiming for a fellowship , you 're probably going to be supported by a funded project of some sort . That means the PI you 'd be working for promised their funders they would get somebody do a postdoc-sized piece of work on Topic X . Their biggest concern is thus likely to be whether you are the person who can do that . Accordingly , when I 'm thinking about postdocs , the properties I 'm looking for are : Flexibility enough to shift from their Ph.D. topic to the topic of the project , which is pretty much guaranteed to be different . Autonomy , creativity , and maturity enough to tackle their part of the project without much hand-holding . Productivity and responsibility enough to deliver research progress at regular intervals . Formulate your letter accordingly , showing what you have accomplished , that you are capable of formulating a research vision , and that you have interests outside of your research vision . The goal is not to sell yourself , but to be interesting enough that it 's worth the PIs time to talk to you in person , which is where the real decision will be made . In fact , however , you are best served if you can skip the letter entirely and approach potential PIs in person at conferences or other meetings . Get introductions from your advisor if you can . Practice your elevator pitch ( explaining what you 'd put in a letter in just three spoken sentences ) . Speaking as a PI , a whole lot of postdoc jobs ultimately originated by PIs talking at a meeting and one of them saying , " I 've got this great student who 's graduating , and I 'll bet they 'd fit well in your lab ... " or the other saying , " I 've got this grant starting next year and there 's a gap I need to fill ... "
In my discipline , mathematics , there is a huge range of tenure track positions , from very strongly research oriented positions to positions that are entirely oriented towards teaching . Most new PhD 's would prefer to end up in a more research oriented position , but most tenure track faculty positions are not at that end of the spectrum . This means that a lot of new PhDs will ultimately have to settle for something less than the research oriented position that they have dreamed of . If you 're only willing to accept a research oriented tenure track position and would not accept a teaching oriented position then you should focus your efforts on getting a research oriented post-doc . If you are most interested in a research oriented position but would at least be willing to consider taking a somewhat more teaching oriented position , then you should make an attempt to get some teaching experience by doing some teaching during your post-doc or by taking a position that is designed to mix research and teaching . For example , Dartmouth has named instructorships in mathematics with a teaching load of one course per quarter . There are also non tenure track faculty positions ( typically called " visiting assistant professor . " ) These are a good way to get teaching experience but it is extremely difficult to get any research accomplished while teaching a load of 3-4 courses per semester in such a position . These positions are sometimes created to temporarily fill the vacancy created by when a tenured faculty member leaves or retires . Sometimes the visiting assistant professor position turns into a tenure track position in that department , but you should n't count on this happening . .
Just send a polite email stating that you found another position or that you simply prefer to take a different direction . Be sure to thank the professor for the time he has put into you . The email does not have to be long , but it should give a reason . You do not need to be overly elaborate , though . And do n't forget to be polite . The thing you do not realise is that the professor wants to find a student who will be committed to his topic for several years to come . If you are not such a student , it is best for the professor to know that before taking you on as a student . In a sense , you are doing the professor a favour by withdrawing .
I 'm worried that it would create a record of affiliation with a low-ranked university that would make people see you as " from " that university , and thus be biased against hiring you . Is there any truth to this ? I think it depends when you do it . If it is in between your master 's and PhD , as you somewhat tentatively suggest : well , I know many people in my academic field ( mathematics ) who paused in between degrees to teach at the high school level , most commonly for two years . I have seen absolutely no stigma attached to this . On the contrary , when people have to make lightly educated guesses as to whether a certain candidate will be a good ( read : not problematically bad ) teacher , then holding a teaching job for more than one year pushes that guess in a positive direction . Teaching at a community college is generally viewed as a " higher level job " than teaching at a high school , so I think this should carry over . As a specific example , within fairly recent memory we took a PhD student who had been teaching at a community college . She got her PhD and now has a tenure-track job at a university . So : no stigma here . ( The above answer assumes that you have made it into a PhD program and have kept up your " higher academic skills " as much as other candidates . Whether that is the case is up to you . ) The part of your CV after you get a PhD will be viewed with much more scrutiny , both in terms of chronology and specific jobs held . If you want to get a tenure-track job at a research university , any post-PhD academic employment other than a postdoc or tenure track job at a research university will count against you . ( Sorry . I do n't make the rules -- I 'm just reporting the situation as I see it . ) Even taking an industrial job might not count against you as much as teaching at a community college : in my neck of the academic woods an " industrial job " is an enigma of blankness eliciting neither delight nor scorn -- our eyes just slide right off of it . Let me say though , that while teaching at a community college between degrees is a possible trajectory to an academic career , it does not necessarily make sense to me for someone to plan on that in advance . That is to say : why are you contemplating taking a break of several years from your graduate studies ? If the answer is because you feel a bit burned out or that you want the chance to figure out whether an academic career is for you , I think you need to know that the post-PhD academic job market is one step shy of airtight at the moment . It is not for the faint of heart or the uncertain of commitment . I suggest you think carefully about your long term goals and whether a PhD is really a necessary part of them .
If it 's your opinion that your readers wo n't have time to read your whole document , you might want to consider adding an executive summary at the top of your document . This would take the form of a short paragraph which essentially includes all the key phrases or sentences that you would otherwise have highlighted in bold font throughout your document . If you make your summary pithy , punchy and exciting , you are more likely to entice your reader to read through the remainder of the document . One might indeed say that highlighting key phrases throughout your summary is a touch lazy . I wrote a similar document and went through and highlighted key phrases , just as you are considering . Then I wrote an executive summary section as the first paragraph , reusing or paraphrasing the key points . I removed the text formatting in the main text body , rewriting the phrases relating to the key points given in the summary to avoid repeating them word for word . To my mind , the result looked more professional and read much better .
But , in European PhD contracts/programs , are there countries , or universities even , that set conditions under which you have to TA ? Or can you even TA in the first place ? The European universities I am well aware of generally do n't distinguish that strongly between TAs and RAs . In reality , in my current university in Switzerland , the " formal " job title of each employed PhD student ( which is to say , practically all of them ) is German for " Teaching And Research Assistant " . Everybody is expected to teach a little , and ( clearly ) everybody needs to conduct research , so this job title seems appropriate . What courses each student is responsible for , and what they are expected to do , is typically assigned by the professor / lab head ( sometimes after extensive negotiations / arguments within the group leading up to the start of the semester ) . Typically , PhD students are expected to only " assist " in the running of a course done primarily by a designated lecturer ( " Dozent " ) or professor . However , in practice , often a large part of the actual work is done by TAs . in my old university , it was also possible to essentially become a lecturer already during your PhD , and from then on do courses officially on your own , without involvement of a professor . It is not possible to " take on " additional TA jobs to improve one 's monetary situation ( but then again , standard salary is already around 60.000 Swiss francs for a first-year student - other universities outside of Switzerland pay less , but still substantially more than the stipends that are common in other places of the world ) .
About your first question , I do n't really know if there is a difference , or if those are just different terms referring to the same document . In context of a training program done at my university , one of our assignments was to write a personal teaching statement . We had several inputs to help us in doing this task , and one I found particularly useful was the following list of questions ( credit to the Staff Development Unit of Newcastle University ) : What Higher Education is for : what are students supposed to learn or how are they supposed to develop whilst studying ? How do you think students learn in your discipline , or in aspects of it ? ( You may of course be part of an inter-disciplinary area ) So , based on ( 1 . ) and ( 2 . ) what teaching methods do you use that reflect this position ( with examples ) ? What has informed your thinking here ( experience , literature , colleagues , students ) ? You can note that 1 , 2 and 4 do not require strictly speaking to have teaching experience ( although it 's clearly helpful ) . For the point 3 , you can replace the " do you use " by " could you use " , and that should work . Two aspects of this assignment that were really important for us were to use pedagogy literature ( as Dave Clarke pointed out ) and to be reflective . Of course , such an assignment is not necessarily evaluated as would be a teaching statement by a recruiting committee , but I think the point was that , as a young academic , you can not really be expected to be an expert in teaching . But you are expected to learn how to become one , and to reflect on your past experiences , interactions , discussions , etc , in order to improve your practice .
When I was an ( engineering , US ) undergrad , the textbook in one engineering mechanics class included problems using SI units and problems using imperial units . The problem sets for homework and exams came from the book , and could be in either SI or imperial units . ( You can see these examples in a <URL> ) . Every other class I 've taken as a physics and engineering student used SI units exclusively .
I assume that by course evaluations , this is a narrative faculty evaluation of your performance in a class that you are taking -- and not the case where you are TAing or teaching a course and your students are evaluating you . You can include it but undergraduate and graduate grades are very peripheral to most academic job applications -- except for entry level and post-docs when we have little else to evaluate you by . Even then , their use is fairly deprecated . You 're not going to be taking classes , you 're going to be teaching them . Include them just to be complete .
The relevant citation is provided in the <URL> . To cite in MLA7 : DiIulio , John J. , Jr. " My Black Crime Problem , and Ours . " City Journal , Spring 1996 : 14-28 . Print . Hope this answers your quesion .
The answer is it depends - both on the student and the culture of the department . There are of course some situations where working from home is impossible - graduate programs that are heavily lab based come to mind . Below is a summarization of my thoughts from a more data analysis driven field , having done both . Positives Lots of departments these days do n't have lots of graduate student space . While some labs might have dedicated bench space , and there may be an RA/TA office or two , there 's not " a place " where students can work anyway , which makes " is it bad to work from home " something of a moot point . Working from home benefits certain work styles . If you 're the kind of person who prefers to work in a spread out , sprawling fashion , with multiple monitors , tons of stacks of paper , and a whiteboard or two , that 's just not feasible in most grad student offices , even when they do exist . And when the only spaces that exist are transient ones , like shared desks or cubicles , library study areas etc. you also ca n't customize your work space at all - and expensive textbooks and laptops are theft bait . It facilitates more flexible schedules . Universities tend to be closed at 3:00 AM . I tend to do my best work at around that time . This seems to be relatively common in academia , and as academia seems to promote an " always working " lifestyle , having a single centralized space you have access to 24 hours a day is nice . Negatives You do lose out on departmental interactions somewhat . The concern about missing seminars is I think a bit of a non-issue . Those are easy to miss when you 're working on site , and can be attended with just a little bit of diligence on the part of someone working from home . What I 've found missing more is the transient , passing in the hallways interactions . I realized , for example , one day that I had gone several weeks without talking to anyone about my field . That 's not good . It also does some harm to cross-polination and ideas from unexpected places . It can get lonely . Seriously , this seems to be a major challenge . It 's possible , and the workload sometimes promotes , just disappearing into a cave . It 's possible to get distracted , as it always is working from home . " Real life " has infinitely many things to take care of , and its much easier to defend " work time " if you 're at an office . But then unless you have an office its easy to get distracted in a department where your friends and colleagues are around . Overall , I would n't say its bad . I know successful academics who work almost entirely in their office , and who work almost entirely from home . I 'd say the best way to promote on-site work , if a university is trying to accomplish that , is not to focus on the bad parts of working from home , but on addressing what makes it appealing . I finally moved entirely to a working from home setup because I got tired of " work " involving camping out in cramped spaces , without the materials I needed , fighting for power outlets . As for whether or not your physical presence is important to the department - it depends on the department . I 've known some who do n't care as long as you show up to what you need to , and others that absolutely want you there , and subtly penalize those who are n't around .
end question
start question
Is it ethical to request the advisor to share the registration fee for submitting a conference paper ?
Talk to your advisor , now . Dealing with funding and finances are a significant part of academic life ; they are n't some shameful taboo thing . Most academics do n't pay for professional travel , including conferences , out of their own pockets ; often funds are available from your institution , or from any grants that may be funding your project , or from the conference itself . It 's entirely reasonable to ask your advisor about funding sources that might be able to pay the cost for you attending this conference ; you should also research possible funding sources yourself . If funding is n't available , or ca n't cover the full cost , it 's up to you to decide whether you want to spend your own money to go . If you decide that you ca n't , that 's okay ; you just wo n't go . I do n't think people would see this as stinginess on your part , but rather a misfortune that no other funds were available . However , by the same token , if your advisor tells you that he does n't have any funds available to pay , you should n't expect him to dip into his own pocket . Ideas like your " 50/50 split " do n't usually come up , unless there are multiple outside funding sources that could pay , and the question is how to apportion the costs between them .
The short answer is : yes . The journal review process is generally completely independent of the conference review process . You will likely face additional skepticism from the reviewers , who may well be rightly prejudiced against the original publication venue . If your paper really is solidly good enough for the journal you send it to , however , it 's likely to do just fine in review there .
Inherently ? No . While it might be good for science generally , they 're under no obligation to do so . That being said , some funding agencies require data be made available as a condition of their support , and some journals require it as a condition of publication . Absent that though , there 's no obligation to do so .
Getting a paper accepted for publication in a normal journal is a matter of credibility : you must be able to convince the peer reviewers that the content of your paper is both true and novel . Very high status journals such as Nature or Science work somewhat differently : there you can not reach the peer reviewers until you first convince the editor that your work is " important " and " broadly interesting " enough to consider , which is a somewhat arbitrary process . Let us consider only normal journals , however , where the bulk of all publication takes place : they still have an editorial filter , but it is generally only to ensure a submission is at least vaguely on-topic , not plagiarized , and basically sane . These are pretty low bars to pass , though they are definitely affected by being known . If I see a paper that has come out with a well-known PI as author and that looks like a logical extension on their prior work , I 'm unlikely to scrutinize carefully for being on-topic or sanity : it would be such a blow to the reputation of the PI to misbehave there that I am comfortable to take the small risk that the reviewers might get annoyed because the paper turns out to actually be crazy or off-topic . Not being known wo n't generally hurt an author here , it will just mean their paper is more likely to actually get checked for topic and sanity , rather than simply trusted . The peer reviewers are another matter . Peer review is a very noisy process , and even when double-blinding is used , it is often possible to have a good idea when a well-known person is involved based on the methods that they are using . Most peer reviewers are conscientious and try to do a good and neutral job , but a ( frustrating ) minority are <URL> . Even for those who are trying to do a good job are human and thus are subject to same standard cognitive flaws we all are , like <URL> . All of this means that an unknown 's credibility will likely be assessed differently than a person who is well-known as a good and careful researcher . The unknown person will generally either have to present stronger evidence to be believed or will have the evidence that they do present scrutinized more carefully . That unknown will actually be better off , though , than a well-known person who has a history of sloppy or controversial work , who will typically have an even harder time convincing peer reviewers . Do not draw the wrong lesson from this , however : a person most certainly can publish well as an unknown , early in their career , without relying on the name recognition of co-authors . Many of us do exactly that . It 's just going to be somewhat harder than after one has already established a reputation as a careful and productive researcher . Final note : if you ever find yourself saying " They only rejected my paper because I 'm not [ well-known / popular / one of the cool kids / etc ] " then you are probably wrong and engaging in sour grapes kvetching . If they rejected your paper , then you should also have been provided with clear information about what types of evidence would improve your ability to get accepted . Do that instead .
I would n't worry about it because that portion is used for statistical purposes like compiling average test scores by major , like in the example here : <URL> The information that schools look at that regard majors are if you take a subject test , like in computer science or physics . And of course all of your undergrad data . Additionally , marking undecided is possible if you really dont want to choose one .
A paper submitted to a conference can be accepted either as an oral talk , a poster talk , or a short demo/industry track , with variations ( small talks , long talks , plenary talks , e-posters , etc. ) . In some fields , the poster is considered less important , and will not be published as a paper in proceedings . In others , they have the same importance . Conferences have two main purposes ( I forgot about vacations in paradise places ) : present your paper , either talk or poster , attend other talks/posters , meet people . To me , " submitting a paper to a conference implies a moral obligation for one of the authors to present the talk or the poster , if the paper is accepted " . If one does not attend , the submission should be withdrawed , for different potential reasons : you ( and your co-authors ) do not need , or can not afford a poster presentation , the conference program is not good enough for your purposes , you should not fool attendees with papers that will not be presented . In the conferences I do summit to , both oral and poster are considered even . I now do : prefer posters when I present , as I have more time ( 1h-2h vs 15 min-20 min ) to present , to talk with attendees , adapt to their background , prefer attend to posters than to orals , except when I spot a specific point for a given talk . Plus , I do bring along with me small copies of the poster , copies of papers that are related to the work at hand , that I can offer to attendees . Reminder of the root : a " publication " means : make a research " public " . Posters are a good vector for that , and bring you more feedback ( very few questions asked in traditional oral sessions ) . Sometimes , somebody who can not attend your allotted slot can propose a specific meeting . I should admit I even went to a person presenting a poster , to ask him about her/his previous work . In those conferences , poster chairs spot " no shows " : poster panels without posters , posters without presenters , posters with a presenter who is not a co-author . <URL> No-show papers are defined as papers submitted by authors who subsequently did not present the paper in-person ( no videos , no remote cast ) at the technical meeting . Presentations by proxies are not allowed , unless explicitly approved before the conference by the technical co-chairs . No-show papers that were not withdrawn and were published in the Proceedings must be identified as " No-Show " in the files submitted to IEEE for further publication ( IEEE Xplore ) . No-shows will not be available on IEEE Xplore or other public access IEEE forums . IEEE will maintain an archive of no-shows . Authors of " no show " are sometimes blacklisted , and can be banned of publications in the scientific organization places ( future conferences , even journals ) for a couple of years . So it will be perceived poorly if you do not warn the organizers and withdraw the paper , is unethical to other attendees , and involves consequences for you and your co-authors .
Oftentimes , and that 's valid esp . for academia , a call will be better than an email . It 's really easy to oversee ( deliberate or not ) an email , but if you call , the editor ( or a secretary ) has to answer . And if you have someone on the line you can ask your questions directly and he has to answer or give you sme other sort of feedback . It 's annoying for a lot of us , since an email is easier , faster , you can better oversee what you 're writing and you do n't have to call someone and speak to him personally . But from an efficency point of view , a call is in most of the cases the best approach . Just ask polite , do n't make some sort of accusation or preasure somthing , but that are the same rules that apply for emails .
What 's the recommended course of action in this situation ? Should I notify the editor of this additional discovery , so that the authors can directly take care of it in their ( presumably ongoing ) revision , Yes , I think so . This seems to be in the best interest of all involved : you , the authors and the journal . It may be tempting to feel " embarrassed " about this or feel loathe to hold up the stately train of the editorial process , but you should resist these temptations : part of being a professional academic is being completely willing to change and adjust to new information and/or new insight you 've acquired . or is it better to just wait for a request to review the revised version ? No , I do n't think so . Put yourself in the authors ' shoes : would n't you like to have this information as soon as possible ? Revising a paper without knowing about a serious -- potentially fatal -- error sounds like it could be a waste of their valuable time . Moreover , the longer they think that the paper will be accepted with revisions , the more disappointed they will be when they learn about the true situation . I would write up carefully your description of the error as though it were part of the original referee report . In effect this does become a new referee report , but you do n't necessarily need to edit this into the old referee report : having already submitted that , the matter of it is to convey the new information . Of course , the final decision about in what manner to inform the authors lies with the editor .
It is not a question of ethics , it is a question about being courteous . Reviewers spend time to read and comment on your manuscript . Regardless of the type of comments you receive there will be significant voluntary work involved . It is only fair to show some gratitude . One way to think about this is that it is no different from any other type of professional correspondence .
Yes , it 's ethical . Everyone applies to multiple positions . Everyone knows this . At least this is my impression from the US . You do n't say which country , so it 's unclear who might be funding your position if you 're eventually accepted . It 's also unclear if you apply to the university , department , or professor directly . This might have some slight influence on whether you tell A and B about your cross applications . If they are going to be meeting together in committee to decide about applications , it might be better if everyone knows that you 've applied to work with two different professors but really only once to the university . If each professor has sole discretion as to whom they hire , and only they see the application , then it probably does n't matter .
Yes . Publication requires both the consent of the publisher ( via the editor or program committee ) and the consent of the authors . If you do not consent to publish under the conditions imposed by the publisher , you can just say no .
As editor I would not accept this in a publication . If it is published it should be referenced . Yes , it bumps the references for the authors and yes , bad science may attract a fair amount of citations for all the right ? / wrong ? reasons . But , it is not up to the authors to decide how referencing should be made , journals have guidelines that should be followed . Having the citation properly referenced makes it easier for others to find the article and see it for themselves . Furthermore , from another point of view the statement that something is " unscientific " is not appropriate either . It is an opinion . The cited paper can be unscientific but the academic way to show this is not to just say it but to prove it . Your quote is a specific case , of which I know nothing , so the reply concerns the general case but I would react if I saw something like that in a paper I edit and I would ask the authors to stick to facts . One last point is that if a paper is really bad , then it should be considered for retraction . That is how scientifically extremely poor , bordering on dangerous , papers are handled .
I do n't think it is inherently unethical to do this . If all relevant parties know about it and you scrupulously acknowledge this other person 's work , then I see no specific problem . Whether it is advisable is a different question ... and one you should certainly ask your advisor . I have to say that it does not sound like such a good idea to me . Your thesis work is for you to do ... almost by definition . It is perfectly fine to get help from others on your thesis , and some people are better programmers than others ( even in CS , I imagine ) , so getting some pointers from a friend is actually a good idea . But paying someone to do a part of your thesis work just does n't sound good to me . Either the programming is an important part of your thesis or it is n't . If it is , you should do it yourself . If it is n't , maybe you do n't need to do it at all , or do n't need to do it to the degree that an outside professional would . There is also the issue of the impression this subcontracting would make on others . Perhaps the cultural norms in your field are very different from mine ( again : ask your advisor ) , but I would have a rather negative impression of a PhD student who did this : they do n't seem to be very committed to their own work . Added : To be clear , I am interpreting the question as meaning that the doctoral student himself is doing the hiring : i.e. , that this is his idea and he is using his own funds . ( If his university is giving him funding and simply asking him to pick someone to work with , then even asking the question " Is it ethical ? " becomes less plausible . ) In terms of suspecting that this is not a good idea , I hope I was clear that this is my personal opinion , with experience from a field ( mathematics ) which is rather closely related to CS but is not necessarily identical . As I said , the OP should consult their advisor about this . However , for what it 's worth I find it hard to believe that the reaction will be " Sure , spend your money . " While not unethical on the OP 's part , it seems , shall we say , suboptimal if both advisor and student feel that this is the best way to proceed .
As far as I know , NO . In the ACM conferences I have attended , I got one USB stick that has a single html file ( page ) that links to the individual PDFs of the papers of the conference . It is not like a conference with Springer proceedings , that provides a single PDF with the entire proceedings grouped together as a book . So , as far as I know , there is not a official book-PDF with the entire conference papers for an ACM conference . I do not know if this applies to all ACM conferences , though .
In general no . There may be some circumstance when it can be necessary but the proofing stage is too late for any substantial changes . The manuscript should be published in the form it has been accepted and it is an authors responsibility to provide a final version of the manuscript which ideally should not require any changes once type-set and provided in the form of a proof . Changes that are acceptable are changes that do not in any way change the science of the paper . If any major changes are done to the paper at proofing , the editor will likely decide whether or not these are permissible . What would happen if anyone tries to push substantial changes altering the core science of the paper probably varies , but in the worst case the paper might have to undergo new review .
Keep it short and succinct , I would say a paragraph is good , unless otherwise stated in the application . If this means that you only have enough space to talk about one of those areas , then pick one . If the conference is more geared towards pure mathematics , I would suggest expanding on your interest in cryptography . Otherwise , if it is an applied mathematics conference , then talk about your studies in biological math . Chances are schools which specialize in pure mathematics will attend a pure mathematics conference , and likewise for applied math . If you want to find out the universities who are attending , just ask an event coordinator . I 'm sure there is n't any secrecy surrounding who is attending .
" While normally as a graduate I should be very thankful and jump on this , I simply can not do the work asked due to time and I believe there would be a more suitable candidate for the work . " That is more or less exactly what you should say . Express your gratitude to Professor A . If you have a major academic obligation taking up your time , like comprehensive exams or something , mention that . Do NOT CC the candidates you have in mind , but do mention to Professor B that you can recommend someone else who you think would be a good fit .
I think you have largely hit the nail on the head in your own post . There is nothing intrinsically wrong with charging for valuable experiential information . In fact , this really could be an extension to charging for ' edits ' or tutoring . Really if they are providing non-sensitive information regarding the procedures and what the admissions panel look for - then I do n't see any major ethical quandaries . However , you highlight a key point . They could be leaking information explicitly obtained from the panel ( that I assume they would have delivered in confidence ) . If this is the case , then I imagine it should be intuitive what the schools reaction would be . The reason this is unethical ( from my POV ) is that they are no longer sharing experiential information , but providing them with explicitly ' leaked ' outcomes that would give a disproportionate advantage . By analogy with the edit example . It would be fine for a tutor to edit and provide feedback on a students work . To the majority of people , I think they are aware this occurs and there are no ethical problems . In fact , a tutor might go so far as to show them example assignments . In fact , my department actively encourages students and postgrads to seek and help out students , respectively . However , if the tutor provided the marking key ( obtained from another postgrad running the unit ) and gave this to the student - that is blatantly unethical .
I think it is OK but , before you attend that conference ; try to identify the professors who come to the discussion panels and sessions . Their names are normally written in the conferences ' websites . Then search their university homepage on the net and read some of their publications . This way you find two or three professors that their research interest is almost near yours . At the day of the conference , go to the sessions in which they present and politely after a short introduction about yourself ; ask whether they accept any PhD student or plan to accept one or not . I have seen that some MSc students go to the conferences and ask any professor they see without any previous search about their academic background . This behavior is so impolite . Sometimes , in the professors ' website , they have notifications about not accepting new PhD students . In this case , asking them for a PhD position is not acceptable and means that the person has never visited his website and probably he is not a good student at all . This way , they may not even listen what you are talking to about . If in some cases , there are some positions available and notified on their website , then go to that professor , show them your curriculum vitae and ask them for a position ; or talk to them about opportunities available for a PhD student . If you are interested in working with a professor but there are not any positions available ; then talk about doing some volunteer research under their supervision . However , it all depends on your research background and how much they find you suitable for working on a research topic . For instance , if you have a good programming background and they need a programmer in their research group , they may accept you to work on some parts of their research project ; and after a few months , if any PhD position become available , you will have a higher chance to compete for that position , because the professor knows you better as you have previously worked with him . Conferences are so valuable for the research students to become familiar with ongoing research projects and publications . In these conferences , you may talk to other researchers or PhD students and start a research project which is interesting for both of you . So , do not miss the chance to discuss and talk to the other people at the conference ; and not just focus on the professors . Besides to these , some companies may need a person like you who has done a research in the field of your interest . So talk to them . There may be some funding or grants available which you can apply for . I think that if you have your paper printed with your resume attached to it may help the professor to remember you and if any positions be available in future , he may contact you . Remember that not all the people have good memory to remember the others with detailed information about their resume and paper . People easily forget details about the past . If your resume be interesting for them and they forget you because they have no printed information about you , then you may miss a research position .
I will address the final question you ask -- if it 's fair for instructors to write an exam but point to other material to study . The primary ethical issue here is the question of intent : why did the instructor tell you to review the particular material . If this was an intentional effort to mislead students , and to feed them " false " information in order to catch them unprepared , I would say that it is somewhat unethical . ( In other words , if you were told you would n't be responsible for something on the exam when the instructor knew it would be , that 's wrong . ) However , if the instructor gave " recommendations " -- along the lines of " it might be good to know X , Y , and Z " -- then there 's really nothing wrong with that . Telling you exactly what to do defeats the purpose of a university education , which is to learn how to learn ! Ultimately , the instructor should not be spoonfeeding you information which you then regurgitate on the final exam . And I would further argue that if all you 're doing is memorizing information , as you suggest , then you 're also not really accomplishing much , since such information is very likely to be " dumped " from memory once the semester is over .
end question
start question
How often do Ivy League universities advertise positions at the Associate Professor level ?
In my experience it is quite common for universities at all levels to advertise positions in this way so that they can hire someone at the associate professor level if there is a strong candidate with appropriate experience . I 've been involved in many searches that were advertised in this way . In my experience most of these positions end up getting filled at the assistant professor level anyway .
To directly respond to your first question : yes , " density " is quite common in middle-to-top tier grad programs in math in the U.S. , once one gets beyond the " required/core " courses . There is a lot of backstory for almost all subjects , and faculty want to catch up to somewhere close to current events . It is also common that one 's conception of an incisive , efficient , insightful course is not mirrored accurately in existing textbooks , so one writes notes to match . ( This is better than " in the old days " , pre-TeX , when most often there were no published notes of any kind , not even hand-written , so note-taking in class was critical . ) About " abstract " functional analysis in particular , yes , I think it is fair to say that the style of many of the standard texts ( and of practitioners ) has drifted in a certain direction , including a sort of " density " . The hilarious and not-really-helpful opposite , from an older time , was the Dunford-Schwartz 3-volume extravaganza , which treated nearly every bit of mathematics as though readers would not have heard of it . Determinants , polynomials , etc. . Naturally , this low-density high-volume approach created its own problems , not the least of which was locating the key examples that were not part of " general " mathematics , but specific to the functional-analytic ideas . The subsequent decades ' monographs or texts on " topological vector spaces " have always struck me as peculiarly unhelpful in making connections to other parts of mathematics , though " maybe it 's just me " . I can not keep all the possible adjectives straight , and I do not see the point of many of them , nor are examples clear to me . Again , maybe it 's just my own limited interest , since I care about " functional analysis " for " applications " ( to automorphic forms and related matters ) rather than to itself , or to " applications outside mathematics " . A point that was not clear to me for a long time is that the " more exotic " types of topological vector spaces ( and families thereof , as in Sobolev-space theory ) are not merely " handy " , but essential in making many innocent-seeming discussions legitimate . So , not merely Frechet spaces , but LF-spaces ( strict inductive limits of Frechet ) already appearing as the correct topology on $ C ^ o_c ( \ mathbb R ) $ , for example . The notion of quasi-completeness really is necessary , since LF-spaces are never " complete " ( unless they 're secretly Frechet ) , but are always quasi-complete . And quasi-completeness is enough for many essential things to still work , like the Gelfand-Pettis ( or Bochner ) ideas about vector-valued integrals , and Grothendieck 's results about holomorphic vector-valued functions , and the strong operator topology ( weaker than the Banach-space uniform norm topology on operators on a Hilbert space ) . Holomorphic distribution-valued functions , and so on . ( My on-line functional analysis notes certainly go in such directions . ) In short , examples are critical , both to illustrate adjectives and theorems , and to see the necessity of introducing various seemingly-exotic types of topological vector spaces . At the same time , I think building up a resistance to random counter-example demands is good , much as with point-set topology . Some counter-examples are significant , others are n't . Much time can be killed , not terribly profitably , by trying to illustrate every possible logical distinction . Do n't do it .
Networking is key -- check out <URL> to <URL> . Find people in your university who are willing to recommend you to the other researchers in the field , whom you would like to work with . Take advantage of the connections your faculty members have developed . Then write a killer cover letter . aeismail notes that <URL> was the only reason he even considered an individual for a research internship . Research the PI and tailor your letter to his/her interests and current project .
I would start by asking the journal rep how many manuscripts ( MS ) other have agreed to , or what is typical . I would think that is what the journal reps would consider " normal " . You probably have a sense of whether they need you for something very specific , in which case a lower number might be quite acceptable . Once you know what they tyically load on their editors , you should think hard about whether you find the workload acceptable . There is usually no guarantee that the workload is evenly distributed unless all editors are able to handle pretty much all submitted MS. As editor you will likely need to at least browse the MS when you receive it , chase after persons willing to review , read the reviews and the MS carefully to provide feedback to the author , review the authors revisions , poissibly run the MS around again and then make a suggestion or decision on accept/reject . All this is within some time frame and chasing late reviews and authors who do not return revisions will take some time . I can also add that it will be the problematic papers that will take up most of your time , the good ones usually are not difficult to handle . You thus do not know how much time you will spend on any particular MS. A really good one could take half a day in total ; a poor may take at least a day or more . So having slightly scared you with this , I will add that the work also has potentially tremendous rewards ( reading brand new research and getting in contact with new persons ) . So , in short , how many MS per month is really impossible to answer , it will strongly depend on how you feel about the work and how you think you can accommodate the workload in your own time . I will leave you with this slightly unsatisfactory answer , but urge you to try to get a sense of what the journal expects and what they consider normal . You could also ask to how much time they think the workload corresponds .
Being in the situation of looking for postdoctoral positions , I can at least give you my feelings of how I would understand that the person I contacted is interested , but can not provide a position right now : First of all , replying is already a good sign of interest . There are many persons who do n't even take the time to answer to an official application for an open position ( apart from the standard acknowledgement email ) , and you have to consider that you do n't get the job if you do n't hear from them . So , if you take the time to answer , that shows that you have at least a bit of interest Then , if you provide a " personalized " answer , that shows that you took the time to read some of the applicant 's papers , then it 's clear that you are interested , and even if you ca n't provide a position , you might be interested in a collaboration . The ideal would be if you can invite the applicant to give a talk , even though it 's clear that there is no job following It would be a good opportunity for the applicant to talk about his work , to get some practice , meet new people , and that can also give you the opportunity to talk about creating a project together . Basically , when one contacts a professor even though there are no official open positions , there are no really high expectations . But knowing that the professor is interested , but has no funding , is great , because it also opens the possibility to apply for a position in one year or two , when some funding is available . In order to show your interest , you can consider it as offering a potential collaboration : you ca n't provide money , but you would be glad to work with the applicant .
I was told that universities in USA are generally better that the ones in Italy . This statement , in its given generality , is false . The US , like most places , has very good schools , ok schools , and a reasonable number of pretty bad schools . If you explicitly are looking for very cheap schools , I would not assume that the remaining selection is necessarily any good , just because it is a " school in the states " . POLIMI is a pretty good school in CS . To be honest , if I had the choice of going either to POLIMI or to a low-ranked US school , I would almost certainly choose POLIMI .
Professors typically do not supplement their salary with grants with one very large exception . The grant money can allow them to trade some number of required courses for research time . The big exception to this is that the typical appointment for a university professor in the US is for 9 months . If the professor wants to teach some summer courses , they can earn 3 more months of their salary for doing that , or they can get grants to fill in that time . The National Science Foundation limits US researchers who are professors to 2 months of summer time funding , though , so to get 12 full months of compensation , a professor will need income from some other source ( summer teaching , another agency 's grants , industrial grants , consulting , etc ) . So , that being said , typically professors can not increase their salary rate . They can only use it to fill in the months that the university does not usually pay them for . Finally , most universities give the option for their professors to take the 9 months of salary over 12 months of payments , so filling in those 3 months may look like a monthly raise from the perspective of their bank statements .
The best thing to do is probably to contact the student administration of your university . They can make certified copies of your diploma ( and presumably also grade transcripts , etc. ) . You can also contact the Dienst Uitvoering Onderwijs at <URL> , which are also authorised to make certified copies . However , it may be that " ordinary " photocopies suffice , if you tell them that you can show the originals later if necessary . You would have to check with the admissions office though , I do not know about the situation in the US .
I 'm not an ocean physicist , or anywhere qualified in oceanography , nor do I have a slight idea of what your topic is on . That being said , research involving water , and any political ramifications that may impact it , typically will impact commerce related to the oceans . In this case , theoretical commercial impacts : Fishing . Your research may potentially result in a ban on fishing , or make it harder to obtain fishing licenses . Trade commerce . Ships are still used to transport goods around the world , including oil . As above , any sort of research that indicates that the oceans may be unsafe or bars certain trade routes will result in economical impacts down the line . National borders . Traditionally , countries own a specific amount of shoreline before international waters . A shifting shoreline may result in a changing border and or possible border disputes . Tourism . Obviously , effects of the water , even perceived , may impact tourism . Insurance . Rising tides = rising premiums . Whether or not these apply to your topic , I ca n't really tell , but it 's better to start with a list of things and then check them off as irrelevant gives the no ethical impact argument more weight .
We have the same phenomenon in America , of course . All other things being equal , a 3.5 GPA from Princeton is much more impressive than a 4.0 from some random state university . The whole idea of GRE scores is to provide a metric that is n't confounded by the difficulty of different programs at different colleges in these ways . An additional difficulty you face is that your American evaluators wo n't know how good or bad your university is . This makes your GRE score doubly important .
From the <URL> , a large-scale survey of students who earn doctoral degrees from U.S. institutions , In the life sciences , 9 % report " own resources " as primary source of support . In the physical sciences , 3.8 % report " own resources " as primary source of support . In the social sciences , 25.3 % report " own resources " as primary source of support . In engineering , 3.8 % report " own resources " as primary source of support . See <URL> .
tl ; dr No registration fees , networking and attending relevant sessions . There has been some talk and background informationabout this already . See <URL> , <URL> , <URL> and <URL> for some background . With this background , IMHO , the primary reasons why PhD students should be volunteers for major conferences in their line at least once are : First up , no registration fees . Yay ! Primary reason one . Networking with other PhD student volunteers who are likely to be PhD students in similar departments working on similar stuff . For instance , most student volunteers at CHI 2013 are PhD students from HCI/CS/IS / ischools working on HCI stuff . Its great to meet with peers and bond with them . [ Yay for student volunteer party ! ] Possible networking with relevant faculty . This could be someone from the organizing committee or the program committee or someone else who you come in close contact with for the duration of the conference . There might be a certain someone who is a good researcher in your line and whom you might want to keep in touch with in the future . Getting in touch as a student volunteer in a conference might be one such strategy . Picking and choosing conference sessions/tracks to attend . You could , with some dexterity be the student volunteer in charge of a track or a session or a panel which you are really really interested in watching . As a student volunteer pretty much , you stand and assist and you do get one of the best seats in the house , albeit by standing . :)
Tough to predict how it will be handled with certainty . You could list the scholarship but then say in your SoP something along these lines : " I 've earned in fact ( a prestigious ? ) scholarship from my home government which would allow me to ... however it comes with a requirement that ... which frankly I 'd prefer not to commit to . Thus I would much rather be admitted with financial support from the university , in which case I would turn down the government scholarship . " For highly ranked research universities , I 'd say it is not common for Ph.D. students to be self-funded . That said , if they can grab a strong student who is self-funded , what 's not to like ? :)
Many universities ( like the one where my wife and I work ) have dual-career hiring programs explicitly to address this issue . It 's definitely worth asking -- carefully -- whether the universities you are considering have such a program . Here 's how our system works . Suppose Department X offers a faculty position to Partner A , and later department Y offers a faculty position to Partner B . Then Partner B 's salary is paid 1/3 by department Y , 1/3 by department X , and 1/3 from a general campus fund . ( Note that X and Y may be the same department . ) So Department Y has a significant financial incentive to hire Partner B. On the other hand , Department X must be willing to pay extra for Partner A ; in practice , however , once an faculty offer to A is actually on the table , most department chairs find it hard to refuse to help hire B . This is why you have to be careful how and when you ask . It 's illegal in the US to discriminate against a job candidate because they 're married -- we 're not even allowed to ask -- but it is completely legal to hire a cheaper candidate over a more expensive one . If department X already knows that you have a two-body problem , they also know that hiring you will be more expensive . The safest strategy is not to mention that your partner needs a position ( or even that your partner is another academic ) until an offer is on the table .
I would say it depends . In the following <URL> , JeffE resoundingly stated that age does not play into the decision whether to appoint somebody for an academic position . Yet , ETH Zurich ( one of the world 's premiere institutions in the technical sciences ) even <URL> ( see the information box on the right ) . Pragmatically , you may be a bit out of the norm . This may give you a small edge in some cases , and may be a small disadvantage in others . For every academic that is concerned about your age , there will be another one that values your industrial experience . I would say , if age is the only thing holding you back , then go and apply for assistant professor positions . Leaving a job in a research lab to start as an associate professor would in a way seem like a starting all over again . Assistant professor is n't the same as associate professor . Both are not the same as " starting all over " . In practice , in most places I have seen , professors on all levels are able to work quite independently , so none should be seen as an entry-level job . Assistant professor may be entry-level in terms of professorships , but it is actually a quite senior position in the wider context of academia .
A few government fellowships come to mind : <URL> <URL> <URL> There are also many fellowships from industrial research labs that you could look into , depending on your field ( Intel , IBM Research , Microsoft Research , Facebook , Nvidia , etc. )
the most senior professor in the room contradicted me This may happen due to any reason . ( my supervisor was not there , he had an unexpected meeting ) Probably , your supervisor was clear about his decision regarding you and the rest was just a formality ( which actually happens in some cultures ) . So he chose to skip that ceremony ( and attend that unexpected meeting ) because he knew his decision would matter alone . What should I have done in the situation ? Assuming that your supervisor had a green signal in his mind for you ( which , of course , you can guess from the situation ) , you should have done nothing but tried to pass on with any reasonable negotiations . Even if the above assumptions are wrong , you should have still done the same , because , considering your this statement : I said a certain method was rather new ( which it was ! ) Especially , which it was ! part , nothing can go wrong . Of course , the reasonable negotiations would involve , you trying to defend that with solid arguments and references , while at the same time humble enough to listen to his criticism and show respect to get along .
The phenomenon you describe is known as compression and , in the case where salaries are actually reversed , inversion . Unfortunately these are very common especially at state universities . The principal cause is that faculty get hired as assistant professors at market rates , but the university salary structure fails to keep up with inflation and any other sources of increases . Given the severe funding cuts , salary freezes , and so forth that have plagued public higher education over the past few decades , this situation has been almost inevitable . The result is a salary structure such as you describe . The only ways to fix this are either explicit allocation of funds to correct compression , or for individual faculty to obtain raises via retention packages to fight off outside offers . In general , salaries are basically set by market rate at hiring ( which for assistant professors is largely independent of citations and papers , conditional on getting the job in the first place ) and by outside offers received later during the career . Both the availability of outside offers and their magnitude will depend on stature in the field . Even if one does not actually take an outside offer , receiving one or more such offers can prompt the home institution to put together a retention package . The willingness of the home institution to put together a top package will also depend on stature , and similarly the magnitude of the retention package depends on the outside offer and is thus also based on stature . In principle , regular merit raises could also reward faculty in accordance with their productivity and impact . But for whatever reason ( I blame self-governance , but that 's another discussion ) , merit raises and such tend to be allocated in relatively egalitarian form , rather than proportional to differential merit and productivity . Other answers provide additional important information . Some salaries are 9 month , some 12 month . Some faculty on 9 month appointments can cover summer salary off of grants ; others spread 9 months salary across 12 months . Public databases often list total salary received rather than 9 month salary ; this considerably increases the variation among faculty .
Under normal circumstances , faculty should never yell or shout at a student . However , faculty are also human beings , and there is always the possibility that under emotional strain , they can lash out at a student . I will admit to having been guilty of this once as an advisor , when a student came into my office for a discussion about his research , and made some statements that betrayed a total lack of awareness of what he was doing ( and this was a " veteran " graduate student who should have known better ) . In the context of teaching , students have reason to expect that the faculty member should not shout at them . However , it is unreasonable to expect that any disciplinary action would be taken against a faculty member for a single infraction .
At my large R1 state university in the U.S. , it might be impossible to get tenure without having an active grant at the time , even with an otherwise excellent record , since mathematics faculty disinterested ( or hostile to whatever the specialty or person in question might be ) would use this as grounds for doubting the quality . After all , supposedly , all the best people are funded . Supposedly , endorsement by the NSF ( or NSA ) is an external , objective test of quality . This is certainly a convenient assumption for arguments in certain directions . EDIT : and since a strong super-majority is needed for a " positive " tenure vote , even irrational ranting can sway otherwise uninformed or disinterested people to scuttle the vote . Issues of external funding are apparently even more identified with research activity by engineers ( and experimental scientists ) , who often dominate the college-wide tenure ( and promotion ) committees . That is , it is sometimes apparently unimaginable that a person would be doing research without a grant . Further , at my university , in other hard-science departments , often large grants are allowed to " buy out " faculty from any teaching at all . This is rare in my math department . EDIT : thus , in the minds of some engineers , " teaching " is stigmatized , since in their own depts it 's only the disenfranchised who have to do any of it . And then there 're the wildly different paper-count standards for experimental science/engineering versus mathematics . The literal " funding of research " usually is less critical , apart from the expense of travelling to conferences , and extra summer salary .
end question
start question
What are risks or disadvantages in uploading to figshare or related services ?
Well , some journals have a " no prior publication " rule in place . These rules often preclude publishing anything that has already appeared in online databases that are freely accessible , so publishing figures in advance of a publication in a medium like this could be construed as violating such a policy . Since anything publicly posted gets published under a CC-BY license , so this almost assuredly counts with those journals as " prior publication . " In addition , anything that could be considered " confidential " or " proprietary " information definitely should not be posted on such a site until you have secured the necessary permissions from project partners and affiliates . That would also apply to " private " hosting of the figures . Your own university or research institution may have policies that have some bearing on the ability to use such sites , so check with them as well . Better safe than sorry . ( Note : Those cautions aside , I do think it 's a clever idea , and I hope it can catch on ! )
( this is rather long : I wrote it for one of my students , who had a similar question ) BASIC UNDERSTANDING When you 're processing a paper , ask yourself : what is their precise problem formulation what is their solution what larger issue are they trying to address with their paper Do ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) actually fix ( 3 ) ( for experimental papers ) do the experiments tell a convincing story to bolster their claims . Be suspicious of what they claim unless the line of reasoning is clear . SYNTHESIS Once you 've done this for a set of papers , you should start trying to connect them together : is there a linear progression of ideas ? How do the tools connect up Is there some way to simplify and explain what groups of papers are doing under a common theme ? CRITIQUE Once you have the above , then you can ask what are the gaps in what people are doing Are these gaps important or minor ? Does some union of the papers essentially solve the problem ? if so , why and if not , why not ? Are these papers even solving the right problem ? ( this last point is both tricky and critical - it is very easy for a line of research to be internally consistent but get totally derailed from the original motivation for the problem ) DIRECTIONS Now you 're ready to suggest new directions and new ideas . note that critique comes AFTER basics and synthesis - you must understand very well before you can judge .
The problem here is likely deeper than just how to write a related work section . In order to publish a ( good ) scientific paper , you need to be able to compare your results to prior results -- often directly and quantitatively in your experimental section . If you already have prior methods that you are comparing to in your experimental section , then that 's a good seed for your related work . Look at the papers describing those methods ; look at papers that they cite and papers that cite them . By spending a few days wandering around in this web of literature , you are likely to be able to get a good sense of what else is out there and which of those pieces of work are most significant overall or most closely related to your own . If you do n't have prior methods that you are comparing to , then you need to sit down with your professor and get some help . If you are n't comparing in some way , how can you establish that your work is a significant improvement worth publication ?
Why not cite both ? The following theorem is due to Doe [ 37 ] ; see also [ 28 ] for a modern exposition and further background . Here [ 37 ] might be Doe 's original paper , and [ 28 ] the recent monograph . Math journals rarely have page limits , so there 's no disadvantage to including more citations . This way you credit the original author and also point the reader to the resource you think will be most helpful .
Some of the obvious ones : The <URL> initiative wants to assign unique identifiers to all " creators " . ( They take authors in the broad sense of individuals generating copyrightable content or something like that , since they include musicians and others . ) That is about as " general " as you can want . If you want to restrict to Academia , the <URL> is not specifically field-specific , though it is limited to fields which have an arXiv presence . Since you did n't specify what is required of a " researcher digital identification service " , social networks such as Academia.edu and ResearchGate which you <URL> can also serve the purpose of disambiguation of publishing records . Certain countries maintain their own databases of researchers residing there . The most comprehensive and successful seems to be that of <URL> . The American Mathematical Society has recently starting maintaining <URL> as part of their MathSciNet service ( I know that the question asked for " not field-specific " ; I 'll weasel and say that the AMS profiles include also those working in related sciences to mathematics , such as physicists and computer scientists , and some engineers . ) For a list of some of the other services , the <URL> has a slightly out-dated list of such services . Note however some of the items listed there have stalled and shutdown since the last edit .
Write one thesis , so you only have to write one introduction and discussion section , and only have to go through the thesis formatting nightmare once . If you prefer two small projects , you can make two projects two separate chapters for your thesis and just try and figure out a way to relate them in your introduction and discussion . Make the title of your thesis sound applicable to the field of study you want to get your masters in ( no one will read your undergrad thesis on the admissions committee and I doubt anyone will care whether you wrote two theses or one ) . You say you have a low GPA . Perhaps two smaller projects ( still for one thesis ) will allow you to collaborate with two different professors . Why is this advantageous ? Because that is potentially two very strong letters of recommendation . Many undergrads have one good letter of recommendation and the rest are just professors that taught a course they took . If you have two very strong letters , that is quite impressive , and will do more to get you into graduate school than anything related to your thesis , short of publishing it in a peer reviewed journal .
The risks are as you describe , although I suspect that the third item is not as serious ( unless your advisor has a formal administrative role ) . The pros are that you will have a lot more input into how the curriculum and the program is shaped . As a new department , people will try things , and not everything will work . There will be many opportunities to suggest improvements and how to do things differently . If the parent university is well known , it 's in their interest to make sure the new program succeeds , so you should also get some benefit from the level of attention paid by them . By bringing a number of faculty over , they 've expressed " buy-in " to the new institute .
In part it means that the conference organizers have access to the conference administration tools and resources that IEEE , ACM , or the like provide . Having been around some IEEE-sponsored conferences , that can mean things like payment processing and credit card handling ; access to a journal special issue for proceedings ; conference organization website for registration , submissions , and reviewing ; and registration discounts for members of the society . Access to these features does n't come for free . The professional societies charge for their use and stand to make money on them . As such , while you have to propose the conference and get it approved , after that the oversight is less . The quality of a conference comes down to the Organizing Committee and it 's technical/content/papers committee . If you 've never heard of any of the members of these committees , or many of them appear to have low-quality papers , there 's a good chance that the conference is n't all that great .
Even if a department loves you , it 's unlikely they 'll show any overt signs ( especially in an official capacity ) because they want to maintain a reasonable negotiating position . But individual faculty are not always " with the program " . For example , it 's happened to me that someone said ( during an interview ) " I really like your profile and will be making a strong case to make you an offer " . But while this might be flattering , it also depends on how much power that individual has over final decisions .
Digital preservation is an evolving area , and the ability to preserve websites over the long-term is one of the most problematic areas . There are several reasons for this : the dynamic nature of contemporary websites ( especially in a format like a blog , where content is update regularly and interactive components such as commenting ) , hyperlinking ( which will eventually lead to broken links and broken images , which , if you point to content external to your site , is out of your control ) and the instability of Web formats ( websites might look better in one browser than another , much less how websites hold up over time ) are just a few of the challenges in preserving websites . There are , however , several things you can do to help preserve your website : Backup -- keep your content stored in more than one location ( on your server , on your hard drive , on an external hard drive , in the cloud , etc. ) and do n't use an external service as your primary storage location , as they can collapse at any time ( Geocities was a huge service when it was shuttered ) ; Keep up to date in changes in file formats and browser software -- when browsers get updated to view HTML 5 , 6 , or whatever may replace HTML in the future , will they be backwards compatible to be able to view the blog you 're authoring today , or will you need to migrate your website to a contemporary format ? ; Utilize pockets of expertise on campus -- archivists on many campuses have been working towards digital preservation solution and your university 's archivist ( especially at larger universities ) may be able to provide solutions for the long-term preservation of your website ; and Consider normalizing your website to a preservation format -- although creating a copy of your website as a PDF may mean losses in functionality ( in terms of interactivity ) , it is a way to preserve the content and appearance of the site in a file format that is considered a safer bet for long-term preservation . The Library of Congress also provides some tips on how to design preservable websites including following available web and accessibility standards , embedding metadata and maintaining stable URLs . Taylor , N. ( 2012 , February 6 ) . Designing Preservable Websites , Redux . Retrieved May 23 , 2012 , from <URL>
Acceptability is in the eye of the beholder . You can not get this " right " for two reasons : Different scientific communities have conflicting opinions about about the credibility of various publication venues . Even " good " venues publish rubbish papers . Some important papers are published as white papers or technical reports , and will not appear on any list of journals . To my eyes , the real question is not about what the " right " value is , but about how the boundary that you draw will affect the conclusions of your systematic review . For example , if you are attempting to perform a meta-analysis on the data within other data sets , then you just need a wide enough scope to be sure to get good statistical validity . Therefore , if your topic is well-studied , you can probably restrict yourself to only those publications listed in some field-appropriate major database , e.g. , PubMed for biomedical literature , DBLP for computer science . It does n't really matter which one , because you 're not actually going for comprehensiveness , just for sufficient sampling , and it 's more important to get well-curated data than all data . Moreover , the bad publications in the dataset are expected to be drowned out be the good ones in your data processing . On the other hand , if you are attempting to summarize all of the credible thinking regarding a topic , then you would want to set a much broader criteria , e.g. , any journal or conference with at least 5 years of publication history and not on <URL> . In this case , you can be so generous because you are going to be using a lot more personal discretion in deciding how much weight to give each paper and interesting thinking may turn up in obscure places . These are the two main cases that I typically see for systematic review ; for other cases , you may need to adjust or pick other strategies . In all cases , however , the guiding principle is a ) there is no " right " answer , and b ) your choice should be driven by the effects it will have on your review .
The person 's title in this case is ( almost always ) Dr , so " Dear Dr Last-name " would be the standard salutation for a first correspondence . If they sign their reply with their first name , then you can consider yourself welcome to write " Dear First-name " in future . Academics in the UK are very used to receiving email addressing them as Professor , so it 's not a big problem if you do this , but there is probably a slight increase in the chance that they might view your email as spam ( I say this because the overwhelming majority of emails I get which address me as Professor are at least somewhat spammy ) . If someone 's title is Professor , this will always be listed on the university website , so if you 've done your research and found out that they are not a professor , it 's probably best to use Dr.
If you mean " is it outrageous to ask a librarian to collect research papers for you , " then no , it 's not outrageous ; some librarians do that , though rarely the librarians working in public libraries . For most university students ( at least in the US . You 're in Indonesia so the system may vary , ) they go to their school libraries because the collections are much closer to their fields of study . The librarians are also more proficient in handling academics-related questions . If you do have an affiliated university , I 'll check with the librarians there first . If you do n't have one , then I 'll next try to contact some librarians of state-funded or nationally funded universities ( especially if you are a tax payer . ) Most of these public schools open their libraries or provide limited consultation to the public . It would also be valuable to ask if they have any kind of borrower program or consortium you can join : later you may need to download a lot of journal articles and having an access to their server can save you a lot of money . If both of these are no goes , then you can try the public libraries . However , the librarians may not be available to fetch articles for you . Instead , you may ask them for resources ( pamphlet , booklet , website ) on how to perform a literature search ( I 'm assuming literature , but they can also show you other curated forms such as microfilm , legal archive , etc. ) Most public libraries do not subscribe highly professional/specialized journals due to the high price , so realize that your scope can be limited somewhat . If all of these yield no results . I 'd suggest at least pay a graduate students or instructor for 2-3 hours to give you a general rundown/tutorial . As I have said , most librarians will not be able to do the search for you . And it 's better for you , as the researcher , to have the first hand experience and control of the process . At the very least , try ask the librarians about database you should search , how to select keywords , how to export and keep results , what bibliography software is available , reference books on writing literature review etc. . Lastly , the quality of help you are going to get is proportional to the clarity of your vision about the work . The more concrete you can describe your work , the easier for them . Things you should consider are as follows : What is the topic ? What is ( are ) the main question ( s ) you want to answer ? -- in this part , be very explicit about time , location , and other important qualifier ( think <URL> ) How far back in time do you need to go ? What is the purpose of the document ? E.g. For a blog , for a grant proposal , or for an assignment ?
I ca n't speak for purest math , but many parts of computer science overlap so I think there may be some similarity ... If you know that you want a Ph.D. and are able to get into a good Ph.D. program straight out of undergraduate , more power to you : this is a fine path to go on . This may not , however , be possible or desirable for a number of reasons . Some examples of good reasons to get a Master 's at one institution before switching to another : You might not get into grad school on the first try , and a Master 's program is a good place to progress academically while you prepare to try again ( this was one of my reasons ) The Master 's is a natural break-point for transferring to a program that is stronger or a better fit . Non-academic reasons , such as family issues , following a partner , visa problems , etc. .
Let 's be utilitaristic and do a rough , optimistic calculation : First , how much time does correcting a spelling mistake cost ? First of all , it costs you some time to find a way to contact somebody from the journal . I ran an experiment with a random journal and it took me three minutes to find a way to contact the chief editor and to ensure that there is no easy way to contact somebody closer to actual typesetting . It costs you about one minute to write the mail . It costs the chief editor ( in our example ) at least one minute to read the mail and redirect it to typesetting . It costs the head of typesetting at least one minute to delegate the work . Whoever is actually doing the work , has to find the source of the paper , correct the mistake , check whether the whole paper is still neatly arranged ( even if the correction did not alter the number of lines in the paragraph , the linebreaking algorithm or the font might have slightly changed ) and every sentence is still on the same page ( in fields , where references to pages happen ) . Again , I ran an experiment on one of my own papers and it took me two minutes ( as the correction had no major effects ) -- and I operate my computer mainly via keyboard and consider myself a fast typer and well organized , not to forget that I do not have so many papers . Additionally , let 's consider one minute for uploading or similar . So , all in all , mankind has spent nine minutes on correcting the mistake . Now , At the end of the day , the reason why we bother with spelling is that it speeds up reading texts , i.e. , saves the reader some time . Let 's say a small spelling mistake ( like turbulance ) costs every reader a second . Thus to break even with our nine minutes , the respective word has to be read about 500 times . I do not have any direct numbers on this , but as papers are mainly read by the same people who write papers , this would mean that I have to read ( every word of ) 500 papers for every paper I write -- which is very far from reality . Thus even under the above optimistic conditions you are likely wasting more time than you are saving . Also , from another point of view and my own experience : The involved people do not care . I can tell a story of how much trouble it was to make a typesetter change the way one of my tables was formatted such that it was any readable even if that would make it deviate from the journal guidelines -- and that was a severe issue . Finally , it 's likely that you only need to read a few papers to spot a terminus technicus with confusingly wrong hyphenation . My favorite example is " generalized onset seizure " , which denotes seizures with a generalised onset and not onset seizures , which are generalised .
I do n't know much about bioengineering and materials sciences . In my area ( CS ) there are many more industrial positions available than academic positions . However , industrial positions often tend be clustered in regions , and there might not be too many academic jobs in those regions ( or they might be very highly competitive ) . Sadly though , I suspect that basing your decisions on where you might do a postdoc is a problem , because a postdoc itself is a temporary position , and so you 're really only deferring the real problem . One argument would be that if postdocs in your area take a while ( say 3-4 years vs 1-2 ) , then you might as well operate as if that were the permanent job , and then reevaluate after your time is done and you 're on the academic job market . Good luck : two-body problems are tricky , and when one partner is on the academic track it gets even trickier .
Probably best to acknowledge first anyway , since there is inevitably some risk that " instantly " becomes less instant ...
You should check the guidelines from your university . I 'd assume that they would have requirements for the order . If not , I always prefer the acknowledgements should come first , that way the non-scientific stuff is out of the way .
Somewhere during my studies I have learnt , that a figure and its caption should form a self-contained element . That means , if I isolate a single figure and its caption from a random publication and gave it to you , you should from those bits of information be able to deduce what this figure is about and what you see there . That does of course not mean , that a physicist must be able to understand the full implications contained in a figure drawn by a chemist or vice versa , but they should be able to understand that " fancy stuff " is in the top left , " other fancy stuff " in the center is indicated with some arrow annotations and a drawn overlay indicates the mechanism that makes them do whatever is interesting . So in your special case , either make a legend containing the meaning of your different colored nodes or , if that is not possible , describe that in the caption . You can repeat that in the text if you feel it 's necessary , but you 're not obliged to do so in general . Also , it 's no obligation to put into the figure caption the full interpretation of the implications you draw from this figure -- this should go to the text . Hence the figure caption could be something like Figure 1 : Process scheme of the process of doing fancy stuff . Yellow nodes indicate XX , red ones show YY and green ones TT . In the text , there can then be the interpretation of the figure , for example : The process scheme of this is shown in Figure 1 . As can be seen from the arrangement of the red , yellow and green nodes , everything is very colourful -- which is very good in our case -- and the guys at management would love it . However , a closer look at the connection between node " foo " and node " bar " reveals , that there could be some problem in [ whatever fancy stuff you want to say ] ... TL ; DR : Put the stuff that is necessary to understand what 's in the figure either directly into the figure ( legend ) or into the caption . The discussion of the figure can go to the text .
My question is , how often do students do this for qualifying or comprehensive exams ? At my previous department ( in ECE , if it matters ) , students do for qualifiers/prelims what they do for their defense , the only difference being that you scale down the total quantity of refreshments that you provide/purchase a bit if the exam is not open to the public . Would committee members expect at least some coffee ? I do n't know about " expect , " but it 's nice to have some on hand : at all of my exams , all of my committee members went straight for the coffee upon arrival to the exam . Edited to add -- The oral portion of the qualifying exam at my previous department consisted of a presentation which was meant to showcase any research highlights the student had achieved up to that point and future directions . If your qualifying/comprehensive exam is like that described by @CameronWilliams below in the comments , then bringing refreshments may not make any sense , i.e. your mileage may vary .
end question
start question
Is it ethical for a journal to request substantial payment for publishing a paper ?
Well someone 's got to pay . If it 's the reader , then howls go up about Open Access . So that leaves the authors . The costs of publishing A high-quality journal needs high-quality editors . An awful lot of literature still gets printed and distributed around the world and that 's expensive . Remember , reading this , we are the ones who are most active online , and so our paper-reading habits are much more likely to be skewed towards predominantly ( or even exclusively ) online access , so are not fully representative . High-quality journals often also get involved in conference sponsorship , publicity , and so on . The peer-reviews get co-ordinated ; there is often some vetting of suitable reviewers ; their responses need to be interpreted correctly ; special issues get co-ordinated ; someone ensures a good balance of articles covering the journal 's remit . So , there 's a lot of costs , and someone 's got to cover them . If we want to publish at almost-zero overheads , we write a blog . A journal is much much more than a blog - and some of the things that make it much more than a blog , cost money . Not necessarily an efficient market That 's not to say that in certain sectors , there is n't a market failure : some sectors do have suspiciously high profit margins . And market regulators should be looking at removing barriers to entry . Those barriers certainly are n't insurmountable , as notable new scientific publishers have emerged recently , with new business models : <URL> being an obvious example , founded in 2000 to support Open Access , and <URL> ; and now a serious player , using the author-pays model . Author beware There are also plenty of scammers using the author-pays model . So be careful out there . Talk to colleagues about who 's reputable and who 's not . Read the journals . And there are lists online of the disreputable publishers . Read more about that on this site at <URL>
Counterexamples notwithstanding , the practice certainly raises all sorts of questions about conflicts of interest : is the adviser providing unbiased advice , is the adviser unbiased in their assessment of the academic proficiency of the candidate , is the advisee independent to choose their research direction , etc. . In cases like this , nobody looks good -- people wonder about the judgment of the adviser , they wonder about the actual quality of the candidate if papers are jointly written , and they wonder about what 's going on in the department to let such things happen . As a consequence , people and departments are generally well advised not to let this happen , simply because the perception of a conflict of interest is oftentimes just as bad as the actuality of something improper happening .
I 've reviewed more than 50 papers , and my preparation to review them has varied widely . At least a few of them have drawn heavily on papers I 've written . Generally , these are extending my results . Typically , I ask myself : What does this paper add ? Is it something I would have thought of easily or not ? If yes , why did n't I include it in my paper ? In contrast , I 've also reviewed some papers that I was not well prepared for . They were in my general field , but in a subarea that I had n't worked in . These papers took a lot more work . ( Up to 10x as long for me to review as a paper in an area where I 'm very familiar . ) For papers in an area that 's new to me , I often have to look up ( and skim ) at least a few of the references from the introduction to judge whether the paper is original . Originality has at least two very different levels . The easier one to achieve is : ( 1 ) this result is new , and does n't follow simply from anything previous . The much harder one is , ( 2 ) this technique is fundamentally new and produces interesting results . If the results are interesting , most journals are happy to publish articles of type ( 1 ) . Articles of type ( 2 ) are much rarer , and can potentially open entire new fields . tl ; dnr : Preparation : you need to either know the subarea well or be willing to read a lot to learn about it . Originality : What papers does it draw on ? How likely is it that a reader of those would be able to write this paper ? Answering this question may require you to read a lot of background .
The answer to the question " do we need ethical approval for X study " is ALWAYS yes . The format is irrelevant . Your institution 's ethics review committee will have a category for " minimal or no participant risk " which will often have fewer detailed requirements for submission in instances such as the one you describe . Nevertheless , the issue is about / independent / assessment of ethical research . Even when you believe your study guarantees / zero / risks , you must have an independent panel validate your method .
While you might struggle to publish something like this in a journal , in Computer Science there are other venues to look out for , such as conferences and workshops . These are smaller ( and sometimes less prestigious ) than journals , but usually with a tighter focus : you can often publish work-in-progress or position papers . Edit : Some conferences are large , prestigious events , and will expect a substantial contribution to the field , so before you decide where to submit , take a look at past papers , and the sort of thing they tend to publish .
Academics are n't upset about not getting paid for refereeing/reviewing - they 're upset because journals charge too much . There 's really four points in the statement " academics do pretty much all the work for free and publishers get the money " Academics do most of the work Publishers do a comparatively small amount of work Publishers get the money Academics do n't get any money Just because people might object to some of the four points , that does n't mean they object to all of them . Academics do most of the work - Most academics would n't object to this state of the affairs . Of course academics do most of the work in publishing ( especially reviewing ) - they 're the ones who are qualified to do it . You ca n't have some bureaucrat take care of reviewing the work , you need someone who knows the field . Publishers do a comparatively small amount of work - Academics might grumble at this , but there 's a comparatively little that the publishers are qualified to do . Typesetting , printing , maintaining the journal website , administration in the reviewing process ... and that 's about it . All the actual content decisions have to be done by knowledgeable people ( academics ) . There 's certainly some journals which try to offload things like typesetting onto the authors , but in part that 's financially driven ... Publishers get the money - This is the main point of upset . Publishers charge what is viewed as an excessive amount . ... but it 's not that they 're charging money per se , it 's more that academics lose access to the content due to expense . Most academics were completely satisfied when they had access through ( paid ) library subscriptions . It 's only when budget cuts ( and publisher price increases ) caused libraries to cut subscriptions that academics got upset . But again , it 's less having to pay for things and more not being able to access everything they need . Academics do n't get any money - This is the point you 're addressing . However , I 'd say most academics do n't have a problem with it . Refereeing for a journal is considered by most to be community service - it 's something that needs to happen , and they 're the only ones qualified to do it . It 's quid-pro-quo : others review your articles , and you review other people 's . Attempting to make it a paid-for enterprise makes the person asking for the money seem greedy . So where does that leave you ? Academics ( mostly ) do n't have a problem doing most of the work - and doing it for free . The complaints are on the publisher 's side : they 're charging too much for what little they do . Demanding that publishers pay academics for reviewing is n't going to change that . If anything , it will make journal access more expensive , as they now need to pay for reviewers . So charging a fee when reviewing is n't going to fix the problem , and as Mark Meckes mentions in his answer , asking for one is only going to make you look naive and greedy to the ( academic ) editor who you 're in contact with . Note that there 's a very big difference between " Decline to review based on principles " and " Decline to review ... unless you pay me " .
Do n't publish in weird journals Work to publish in the mainstream journals , despite their fickle biases and sometimes burdensome cost . Fields often have a pecking order of journals and the journal in which an article is published can change the perception of an article . Journals such as <URL> may be well-intentioned , but seem to provide a way for people to start worrying earlier and earlier about publishing . It is premature for you to worry about your publication profile . You 've already published one paper at 16 -- that 's great . You are ahead of the curve . Graduate programs look for undergraduates to have published . Colleges look for evidence of potential . In the two labs I 've worked in , the PI evaluates prospective high school students and undergraduates based on a letter of recommendations and a brief talk with the prospective student . Incremental publications in third tier journals may be a necessary part of the tenure slog , but you have the time now to just learn science and decide whether you want to pursue it as a career . Worrying about publications in high school is putting the cart before the horse .
What you describe is , in my opinion , horribly unethical ! Yes , past performance is often a predictor of present performance , but there are so many other factors involved as well . What if a student did poorly before because of any number of reasons , but have since stepped up their work , caught up , and really mastered the material ? Or what if the student has been focusing heavily on this subject and has consequently fared more poorly in another subject ? It is manifestly stupid and counter to the entire notion of education to ignore good work by a student in one location simply because the student did bad work in another course or another time . Ethical violations are a different matter -- it is reasonable to be suspicious of a student with a history of cheating -- but grading a student poorly for having the audacity to exceed expectations is a rank betrayal of the most basic responsibilities of an educator .
Reviewers normally receive a confirmation email from the journal editor after submitting a review online . Such email should be sufficient to prove that you have reviewed for the journal .
not all , but many papers ( that are accepted and published ) are based on ideas that can be patented as well This is a misconception . Even in engineering , only a small minority of papers contain ideas worth patenting . The further you get from engineering , the smaller this fraction gets . So , why is that there is no system in which a person can apply for a publishing a paper and also getting the idea patented at the same time ? You can indeed do both things in parallel , but not via the same process . Publishing a paper is an academic process , whereas filing a patent application is a legal process , and the two things just do n't overlap very much . It 's kind of like asking why you ca n't write your dissertation and apply for jobs via the same process . You can certainly work on both at the same time , and there is a relationship between them , but fundamentally they are n't the same thing . Is it possible that I publish a paper , do not get it patented and during that time someone else patents my work in his name ? No , it 's not possible . Well , technically someone could try , but they would be wasting their time , since your paper would serve as " prior art " that would invalidate the patent . Or someone else picks up my theory , develops it further and gets a patent ? That could happen , whether or not you file for a patent . They would own the intellectual property rights to the extension of your work , but not to your work itself .
Oftentimes , and that 's valid esp . for academia , a call will be better than an email . It 's really easy to oversee ( deliberate or not ) an email , but if you call , the editor ( or a secretary ) has to answer . And if you have someone on the line you can ask your questions directly and he has to answer or give you sme other sort of feedback . It 's annoying for a lot of us , since an email is easier , faster , you can better oversee what you 're writing and you do n't have to call someone and speak to him personally . But from an efficency point of view , a call is in most of the cases the best approach . Just ask polite , do n't make some sort of accusation or preasure somthing , but that are the same rules that apply for emails .
As far as I 'm aware there is no obligation to provide a translation of a published paper from one language to another . I think it would be rude to ask for a translation of a paper . However , it would generally be fine to enquire as to whether such a translation exists , or whether similar work has been published in English . More broadly , it may be in the author 's interests to provide an English translation in order to increase the impact of his or her work . If the work is really important to you , you could always pay for a translation . At the extreme end , perhaps where there are a large number of important works in a particular language , you may even want to learn the language .
To answer the ( <URL> of the ) question in the title : Are scientific articles of public domain ? the answer is absolutely not , unless the relevant copyright holders declared it so or that its copyright has expired . Note that public domain is emphatically different from open access . To answer the question in the body : Is it legal for the university/organization to host a copy of an article , if this has been published on a conference or journal with paid access ? Does it matter if the authors of the article belong to that university/organization ? the answer is it depends . What does it depend on ? Very simply , the publication agreement or the copyright transfer agreement or the licensing agreement signed by the author when the article has been accepted for publishing . For example : Here 's <URL> Here 's <URL> <URL> for their journals . As David Ketcheson points out below , a great resource for checking the self-archiving and open access policies of is <URL> .
Answering the more general question , sure . A polite email will never hurt you , the worst case scenario is that they are too busy to reply , or that their contact information is no longer valid . The best possible outcome , you get a nice explanation , an interesting conversation , and perhaps a couple of anecdotes about the research . Just make sure that question is : Relevant to the research . Obviously , I do n't email Linus Torvalds every time my linux computer does n't boot . The information is not easy or obvious to find . Just liquid refrigeration of computer components does n't really meet any criteria , but you could ask for the specifics . Just make sure to understand the basics first , if your question looks " dumb " , it will probably get lower priority . Reading a paper for my own research , I found a somewhat old paper ( about 10 years ) explaining the analysis of some data . One of the key points is setting the noise threshold , that they set as the maximum of the histogram . The thing is that in my data the maximum of the histogram was at 0 , following a very good power law . In short : the procedure would be invalid for my data ; but actually irrelevant for me . I commented it with my advisor and he said that I should email the author about it , and that it will probably start an interesting conversation . ( I have n't gotten to it yet , but my bet is that modern instruments are quite different ) .
I get the same emails as well . Things to consider when looking at a brand new journal : As Anonymous , Charles and JeffE commented , make sure it is not a scam and that the editorial board are well respected ( well-published ) academics in your field . Make absolutely certain that the journal caters to your exact research field - try and find , or ask , what their focus is . Find out about costs if any . If the journal is legitimate and relevant , then consider publishing a smaller paper first , publish your main papers in well established highly ranked and highly distributed journals ( especially if you are starting out in academia ) .
As with any situation , there are many levels to any answer ... Mainly , the question is : was the data-set published ? If so , who owns the copyright ? Probably not your professor , but the university . If it was n't published , then it is n't ethical to use the records you kept of it for another purpose , without authorization from your employer . However , there might be a solution , regardless of your fall-out before graduation . [ 1 ] Just get your current advisor to ask him ! One staff researcher to another , the situation is not the same as you dealing with your formed professor . [ 1 ] I am amazed at how many times I have read this situation ( I can not speak to my adviser/professor / ... ) raised in questions on this site ! Every time , I think : before or around the time of graduation , are n't you a bit young to make " enemies " ? I can sure name many people I thought fools or who annoyed me during my studies and early career , but I always tried as hard as I could to get things done in a manner that no bridge was burnt ...
" I contacted the communications department via e-mail and asked if it is illegal and/or unethical to apply . Response said that company employees can apply , which means , I can apply . " I think that answers the ethics about it as well . As long as you are open about the fact that you are a company employee , there is no scope for you to violate any ethics . Any possible violation ( which I do n't think there are any ) would be in the company 's hands . Think about this - why is the company offering a scholarship ? They probably want the recipient to graduate and then work for the company . Thus by attracting top students to apply for an attractive scholarship , they gain a highly skilled and motivated employee . Sure , the fact that you already work for them might give you an advantage in the application process . But this is a private company giving out privately earned funding . They should be able to pay whomever they choose , for whatever reason . In the end , there is really little difference between this , and an internal hire .
I 'll try to give a general answer from a non-CS perspective . tl ; dr : yes , there are errors out there . A lot of errors , clerical and not , even in oft-cited papers and books , from any field . It 's inevitable : though they do their best to avoid errors , authors are human after all , and reviewers are humans too ( I know , you never find a damn robot when you need one ) . Thus , whenever you read a paper , maintain a critical thinking . EXAMPLES I 'll start the too long section with an anecdote . When I was working at my master 's thesis , some twenty years ago , I needed a result published in a much cited paper from a renowned author in the field of electromagnetics . At the time , ( almost ) young and inexperienced , I thought that papers were always absolutely right , especially when written by recognized authorities . To practice the technique of the paper , I decided to rederive the results : after a week spent redoing the calculations over and over again , I could n't find the same final equation . I was able to discover the correct equation - the one I was finding - in a book published later by the same author . Indeed , it was a clerical error that absolutely did n't change anything in the paper , but it was annoying and taught me an important lesson : papers and books contain errors . And , of course , I later published papers with mistakes in equations ( not for revenge ! ) [ * ] . After that first experience , I 've discovered that you can find more fundamental errors , even in well known books and papers . I 'll give you here a few examples , taken from different fields , to underline how broad the phenomenon is ( in bold , the mistaken claim ; within parentheses , the field ) : ( Classical mechanics ) In Newtonian mechanics , the correct equation of motion in case of variable mass is F = dp/dt . This statement can be found in many classical books about newtonian mechanics , but it is plainly wrong , because that equation , when the mass is variable , is not invariant under Galilean transformations as it is expected in Newtonian mechanics ( actually , the concept of variable mass in Newtonian mechanics can be misleading if not properly handled ) . For a deeper discussion see , e.g. , <URL> , <URL> and Spivak 's book Physics for Mathematicians , Mechanics I . As a curiosity , that wrong equation is used by <URL> in <URL> as an example to introduce the memristor . ( Circuit analysis ) Superposition ca n't be applied directly to controlled sources . It was just a few years ago when I came across this statement for the first time , and I was stunned : hey , I 've applied superposition to controlled sources since I was in high school , and I 've always get the right result . How it possibly ca n't be used ? In fact , it can be applied , the important thing is to apply it correctly , but there are really many professors ( I have several examples from Italy and US ) who do n't understand this point and fail to notice that the proofs of several theorems in circuit analysis are actually based on the applicability of superposition to controlled sources . For more on this , see e.g. <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . ( Thermodynamics ) The Seebeck effect is a consequence of the contact potential . This false statement can be frequently read in technical books and application notes about thermocouples . [ * ] Update 31/08/2015 : apropos of my own errors , a couple of weeks after having written this answer I discovered an error in an equation of a published conference paper which I co-authored . A fraction that should have been something like - A/B became B/A . Hey -- I told one of the other authors -- how could we possibly have written this ? And how did it get past the reviewers ? The fact is , that that equation was associated to a simple , well-known , example given in the introduction , an example so simple that probably neither us authors nor the reviewers gave a second look at the equation ( of course , how can anyone write this wrongly ? ) . I feel that many clerical errors like this one happen because of last-minute changes to notation : you have almost finished the paper and you realize that you could have employed a better notation ... so , let 's change it on the fly ! And here is where certain errors sneak-in . Avoid last-minute changes , if you can .
There are two separate issues here : omitting the proof , and calling it an exercise . It is relatively common to omit some proofs in research papers . In particular , proofs that are long but routine , or that re-use the same method as other proofs in the paper , are often abbreviated or removed . It depends on the intended audience for the paper , to some extent . You will get a sense of this by reading more research papers . But caution is needed : one of the first places to look for errors in a paper is in results where the proof was omitted ! The question whether to call something in your paper an " exercise " is more difficult . I would n't be surprised if some people do it -- but some people do n't write very well . The audience for a paper includes your peers , and you are not really in a position to assign them homework . There are other ways to indicate that a proof is easy besides calling it an exercise : " the following theorem follows directly from definitions " , " the proof of the following theorem is routine " , " the proof of the following theorem is similar to the proof of Theorem 1.3 " , etc. . Giving a small hint of how to prove the result can make the paper stronger , and it helps any readers who are not experts in the area .
I do not see that sharing your knowledge would in any way be a problem per se . What could become a problem is if you also share copyright-protected materials . It is virtually impossible to list what might or might not be such materials but to take other persons presentations , images , data and then sharing it would be clearly illegal ( and unethical ) unless they are provided with a " license " stating they are free . If you take the knowledge you gather and then put it together somehow ( including making your own presentations on your own material ) , it should not be such a problem . In any circumstance where you want to use other peoples materials , it is always best to ask for permission . Not only does it save you possible future problems , you may find friends in the process . Watch out for materials published by commercial interests and use open source material ( but do give credit to those who made it - attribution is required by licenses like <URL> and it is also a nice gesture to acknowledge the work and time by the original authors ) . Much material is given out for public ( but not commercial ) use . A final advise , attach an open source license to your materials . I am not fully aware what licenses may apply but am sure many has good suggestions for you ( check Academia.sx or ask another question on that ) . So to sum up . I think it is a nice idea and perfectly fine , but be aware that you must be 100 % sure you do not publish materials so that you break copyrights or abuse licenses ( protect the open source practises ) .
end question
start question
How do I deal with an old reference letter from an advisor for job applications ?
Not exactly an answer , but a couple things to note . Letters on MathJobs expire eventually ; I think you can see the expiration date on the " cover sheet " page . It will be very awkward if it expires partway through the application process . Also , note that your advisor will be able to remove or update the letter at any time , which could be a problem if he is really vindictive - he could replace the letter with something unfavorable . So in short , regardless of how an old letter looks to the committee , it may not be wise to use the letter against your advisor 's wishes .
The point of a letter of recommendation is for the receiving party to obtain third-party verification that you are , indeed , awesome . Generally speaking , people like to receive letters from individuals who know you well professionally . In most cases , teachers can not write good letters , as they only know you as a face in the class , and never really got to know your work ethic , personality , and capabilities . A research advisor would be able to comment on all those things , and would be able to write a much stronger letter .
When I have dealt with extra credit in the past , it was simply retained in the records until the very final accounting of scores at the end of the course . Thus , if the exam was out of 100 points , it was still considered to be out of 100 points , and some people simply had more than the maximum possible . When grades were combined together in the final accounting at the end of the course , having a score above the maximum effectively ended up helping compensate for lower scores on other tests ( though perhaps not one-to-one , depending on relative weighting ) . If a particularly amazing student turned out to get more than the maximum in the class overall , then it would n't affect anybody at all : the curve was n't shifted and they simply got top marks , as they would have if they 'd gotten the maximum .
Becoming overweight is not an issue per se . Major physical changes , however , are often a sign of an major ongoing mental or physical health event . Rapid weight gain , for example , is often associated with depression or thyroid problems , both of which can have a major impact on the student 's ability to learn and work . As such , I would definitely be concerned if a student was visibly gaining a large amount of weight -- not because of attractiveness or disapproval of weight , but because of what else it might indicate . I would find it highly inappropriate , however , to bring this up with the student by saying something like " I 've noticed you 've gained a lot of weight " because there are also a lot of more benign reasons somebody might gain weight , including recovering from mental or physical health problems that would also be none of my business . I would , however , notice it as a possible red flag , and start to keep a more careful eye out for other signs of distress , which might legitimately trigger a conversation about , for example , mental health .
Counterexamples notwithstanding , the practice certainly raises all sorts of questions about conflicts of interest : is the adviser providing unbiased advice , is the adviser unbiased in their assessment of the academic proficiency of the candidate , is the advisee independent to choose their research direction , etc. . In cases like this , nobody looks good -- people wonder about the judgment of the adviser , they wonder about the actual quality of the candidate if papers are jointly written , and they wonder about what 's going on in the department to let such things happen . As a consequence , people and departments are generally well advised not to let this happen , simply because the perception of a conflict of interest is oftentimes just as bad as the actuality of something improper happening .
Absolutely , with no qualifications , approach the researcher and ask what it would take to do research in his/her lab . As a first-year undergraduate student , it 's very likely that you do n't have the knowledge to contribute to the projects . So approach humbly , asking what you can do to prepare yourself . Ask for suggestions for a review paper or a few research reports that would bring you up to speed . Ask if you can attend lab meetings as a fly-on-the-wall to absorb the controversies and decisions being made day-by-day . The very worst possible case is that you 're told , " no . " If so , you 're already there . Next worst is that you invest your time and get only an education out of it . That 's not so bad . You 'll be positioned very very well for next year . Good luck !
As you are both students and she approached you , then the answer is simple : Walk away nicely . Explain to her that your working styles do not mesh and therefore the collaboration is becoming too burdensome . Then you need to work with her to setup an exit strategy where you clearly agree on what it is you will do . You also will probably want to ( re - ) discuss authorship of any possible publications . As a fellow student it is not your place to try and change her behaviour or working style . As you were not asked to collaborate with her by your supervisor , you are only letting her down and realistically it is her who let you down .
I 'm sure some advisors do act this way . I do n't think it 's very common , but it does happen . It 's more common for advisors to expect certain results than a particular hourly commitment , but all these things are a matter of extent . However , in trying to figure out whether to switch advisors , I think you 're asking yourself the wrong question . The right question is : What type of advising relationship works for you ? If you feel energized , motivated , and happy under your current conditions , that 's one thing . If you feel overburdened and miserable , then you should probably look for a different advisor . Even the most competitive Ph.D. programs have faculty who are not so demanding . You have to figure out what type of style works best for you and try to find an advisor who is a good match .
As others have said , not every ( old ) article has a DOI or a URL . However , in mathematics every article since 1940 has an MR number which uniquely identifies it . So go to <URL> and look up this article . I just did , it has MR number MR0844292 . The bibliographical information on mathscinet ( like the transliteration of the author 's name ) would also be considered the " canonical information " .
a student asks you why our noses run and our feet smell . My answer would be Sorry , I do n't know the answer to your question . Please ask the experts . This is the professional answer I 'll provide . Professional in the sense that I only say what I know . Be careful if you try to use some sense of humor to answer those questions . You can easily step out of boundry . In particular , the two examples you have may have something to do with health/privacy issues . If the student keeps asking this kind of questions , you 'll know he has other reasons to do so ( such as another student has running nose or came to classroom with bare foot ) . Talk to the student privately or take it to your superiors . Edit I received comments about part of my answer " Please ask the experts " . I 'll explain . I am recommending to pretend the trolling question is a serious one . I can not guess what trolling questions the OP was asked . There are many possibilities . Many trolling questions are of personal type . I give an example here . A young male handsome prof. teaches in a college . He is asked all kinds of questions every new semester . The most frequent one is " Professor , when are you going to get married ? " The prof. always replied " Sorry , I do n't know the answer . You need to ask my fiancee . " In this case , the expert is his fiancee . You can use other serious ways to answer the trolling question . The point is to be serious ( or jokingly serious if you can ) about it so that the troller wo n't be able to continue the trolling . End of edit
The existing answers seem to me extreme . I do n't think some sort of draconian blanket " leaving-the-room policy " is needed here . I would suggest the following : For students leaving occasionally : Ignore it . They are adults and sometimes things in their lives may take higher priority than your class ( e.g. going to the bathroom , feeling unwell , family emergencies , etc ) . If it 's distracting to you , well , deal with it . It 's a classroom , not a funeral , and you are a professional . Take a breath and get back to teaching . If you see a particular student leaving often : Have a private word with them to see if things are okay . They may have special circumstances that you do n't know about ( chronic illness is one distinct possibility ) . Once you know their situation , you may be able to offer specific suggestions that will reduce the disruption and/or get them more engaged in the class . If , after talking to them , you are convinced they are just walking out from spite , and they wo n't stop : Follow your institution 's policy on disruptive students . Your department chair should have further guidance . It may ultimately be necessary to drop them from the class . A short break in the middle of a 75-minute class is a reasonable idea , but I would keep it very short : perhaps 1-2 minutes , enough to stand up and stretch , not more . It should not significantly reduce the amount of time students spend on task . ( Otherwise , as mentioned above , you may encounter problems with your institution 's authorities that your class does not provide as much instructional time as promised by its number of credit hours . Moreover , some students will see it as wasted time and resent it . ) Better yet , break up the lecture with some other sort of productive activity ( small group discussions , problem solving , etc ) . I do n't think it 's appropriate to publicly shame students for poor etiquette , or shut them out of class if they leave . You will unfairly punish students who legitimately need to step out for a few minutes , and anyone who is doing it from spite or boredom will just be further alienated .
It depends on the department . I have been looking at various applied mathematics departments in the USA and all of them want PhD students to go through the coursework and obtain an MS , even if they already did a masters degree before . I think in general , there is no chance to skip coursework . This is probably because different universities have different standards and syllabuses for the same course . And they want to ensure everyone is up to the same standard and have taken the same syllabus . But do check with the department , there are always exceptions . P.S. However , it does n't have to be a " waste " of two years . The level of the course might be higher and you are probably able to choose different courses to get broader experiences . If all else fails and you are able to ace all the courses with no problem , you can always spend the extra time looking for a thesis adviser or find research collaborators .
The proportion of " homegrown " to " ... imported ? " PhDs varies depending on your discipline , but at the science end of things ( I 'm in computer science , but know plenty of mathematicians and also majored in chemistry as an undergraduate ) it 's quite international . Apart from pathological cases ( known " bad " universities , or otherwise extremely dubious universities ) , where you got your PhD is not particularly important . As Jeromy says in another answer , international experience is definitely viewed favourably though . My having done my doctorate overseas has definitely been a boon . The real criteria are performance based ; publications , teaching ( especially awards or other recognition ) and ability to bring in the grant money ! ( That last one in quite important , for better or worse ) . As a recent Doctorate , you 'll mainly need to show that you can conduct quality research . Just for some completely non-statistically-significant stats , my Australian undergrad . chemistry department had about 50 % overseas PhDs , my CS department had more like 90 % overseas PhDs and my maths department had about 50 % too . At my current ( Australian ) department ( CS ) , it 's probably about 70-80 % overseas PhDs ( though that 's a guesstimate at the moment ) , including me . Of course the caveat is , again , this will change from department to department and university to university . Some like to only hire their own graduates , others will never hire their own graduates . Your best course is really to contact the academics offering the jobs , establish a bit of an informal relationship and find out what each position is looking for .
Supervisors are employees just like everyone else . They have duties ( to supervise you ) , and they have vacations and business trips . Both vacations and business trips ( conferences , field trips , probably archive work in your line ) will be more common during summer . Specifically for academia , many people will use summer to spend more time working from home while they do n't have to give lectures , but they may designate certain days when they are in the office , specifically to meet with everyone on a single day . That said , I see no reason whatsoever why email contact should decrease during summer , of course except for known vacation or trip periods , where everyone can agree that emails may take a little longer to be answered . Face-to-face contact is also important , but given that many people will spend more time at home , there is a case to be made that you may not meet quite as frequently with your advisor during summer , even after accounting for vacations/trips . Nevertheless , I see no reason why a request for email contact and ( possibly somewhat less frequent ) face-to-face meetings should be unreasonable . It would of course be optimal to work out a schedule before summer , taking vacations etc. into account . " I 'll check in every day with a short email , and I understand if you reply later to email questions . Could we set up at least some face-to-face meetings , perhaps not every week as during the semester , but every other week , except for the week you are at a conference ? " After all , your supervisor will be just as interested in hearing from you and knowing that you do n't spend all of summer at the beach ...
The difference between descriptive writing and critical writing is much like the difference between a newspaper report and an opinion column . Descriptive writing is the act of reporting on what 's in the literature : Smith found that when X occurred Y and Z also happened . Critical writing analyzes what has been done , and takes note of trends , as well as possibly offering feedback on the overall quality of the research : Smith found X occurred in the presence of Y and Z , as did Jones . However , Doe has demonstrated that Y and Z normally occur in conjunction with one another , so it is not clear if X actually influences Y and Z , or if it is an independent effect . What you can see from the above is that critical writing does require some descriptive writing , but it goes well beyond it in terms of the depth of analysis .
The copyright will be owned by Nature , so it would be illegitimate ( and , as @AnonymousMathematician says , somewhat rude ) for you to distribute it yourself . However sending a re-typeset version to the original authors is n't distribution , but simply correspondence . If they want to re-distribute this , they 're in a better place to do so than you are . This may not have occurred to them , and your action in suggesting they do so , will be at the very least encouragingly flattering ! I doubt Nature would be opposed in principle . Their <URL> says that ' [ Nature Publishing Group ] actively supports the self-archiving process , and continues to work with authors , readers , subscribers and site-license holders to develop its policy . ' That 's a fairly vague remark , of course , but many universities and funders now mandate ' self-archiving ' papers , and journals have no option but to go along with this ; therefore the authors may have already have a way of distributing this in a way which is low-hassle to them , and unobjectionable to the journal ( s ) . Detail : Authors are n't , typically , allowed to distribute the publisher 's PDF version of a paper , but are increasingly allowed to ' self-archive ' and distribute the ' post-refereeing authors ' version ' ( that is , the same text as in the published version , but typeset by the author ) . So , get in touch with the authors . It sounds like you 'll be doing the community a favour .
The cynical answer is " nothing " . But in truth there are other ways to monitor progress and dole out rewards/lack of reward . If your productivity drops off a cliff after tenure , you 're unlikely to get promoted to full professor ( US-specific ) , and get the associated salary increases etc. . You may be comfortable with this ( less service is a good thing ! ) Some universities do 5-yearly post-tenure review . Doing poorly on such reviews can lead to loss of raises , reduced access to new space and facilities , increased service load ( if you 're not pulling in funding or teaching well for example ) , and so on . but ultimately , the final incentive is your own desire to perform . It 's very hard to fire faculty . But administrators can try to kill entire departments .
You should tell your references that you would like to keep your application confidential . The problem is that while the job search process is nominally confidential , leaks happen all over the place . For example , people call colleagues asking for informal assessments of applicants . They may not say the person is applying , but when you get a phone call like that , it is pretty obvious . Another example is that sometimes applicants give job talks during a normally scheduled departmental seminar . These are often " advertised " on the web . Again , even if it does n't say job talk , it can be pretty obvious . At some point you are going to visit the school ( if you make it that far ) and meet tons of people . Asking/expecting the search committee to keep things quiet is one thing , expecting the entire faculty is another , expecting grad students and post docs is another .
In case the email was actually intended for the other person , it would be courteous to reply , saying that you got an email from him that you think may have been meant for someone else .
The correct answer is not to wait until two days before the deadline to check in on your co-author 's progress . Presumably this is no longer an option . If the section is not necessary , take it out . If it is necessary , you and your non-tardy co-authors can try to get together and do it together before the final deadline . You should certainly tell the tardy co-author what you plan to do ( I mean the collective " you , " as in you and your other co-authors ) . If the tardy co-author 's contribution does n't make it in before the final deadline , then his name wo n't go on it either . Note that if this was a paper being submitted for publication , e.g. a conference submission , and not for school , you would likely just miss this deadline entirely and have to wait to submit to another conference .
end question
start question
Should I contact an editor at the journal that rejected my paper , to ask for feedback ?
No , you should probably not contact the Associate Editor . First off , referees do not generally make decisions about accepting or rejecting a paper . Referees make recommendations to associate editors and editors , and they , in turn , make decisions . Thus , the associate editor who was cc ' ed on the email to you is probably the decision-maker who read the reports from the referees and decided to turn down the paper . This person also knows who the referees were , and is in a situation where this input can be appropriately scaled by the referees review history , level of experience , etc. . For what its worth , I consider it bad form when refereeing to make my recommendation known to the author . I give an honest assessment , describe my issues , and then make my recs to the editors in the appropriate fields . ( I also make it my personal policy for manuscripts , at least , to never say anything that I would n't say to the authors face ) There may be check boxes in the reviews that you are n't privy to . Even your reviewer who seemed to recommend acceptance may not have been all that enthusiastic about it , or may not have thought the paper to be very important . You should make use of the feedback you got , which suggested that there was too much similarity with another paper of yours . You should make the paper clearer as to what the new findings are . Take a step back and determine if , given the magnitude of this extension , is this worthy of a full paper , or perhaps the field would be better served by some sort of short report . Then pick the appropriate venue for publication . There are some legitimate cases where you might drop the editor a note . Certainly , if something " very wrong " happened during the review process , but that does n't seem to be the case here . My experience is that this is rare , and most reviews are fine . Your most productive action at this point would be to discuss the reviews with a mentor .
With the submission management systems of most journals , it will be an incredibly obnoxious hassle for the editors to support a double-blind review if the journal 's policy is normally single-blind review . The reason is that , even if you remove names from the manuscript , most review systems present the reviewers with all of the key meta-data about the paper , including the author identities . This information is tied to author accounts in the system , the paper production and publication process for accepted papers , and possibly also external systems such as <URL> . This is configured right into the software , so the only method most editors would have for supporting double-blind would be to have the authors create pseudonymous accounts and then later work with the production staff to manually intervene and change all of the metadata ( likely screwing up their records as well ) before the paper actually appeared . Thus , given the degree of hassle and problems involved , I would expect most editors to refuse without some sort of exceedingly unusual extenuating circumstance . You can always ask politely , of course , but you should expect the answer to be no .
As I understand it , " reapply " is merely a technical term in mathjobs and this should cause no problems . See , for example , the statement " Update ( re-apply ) applications as many times as you like , or whenever you have new info to add " in <URL> . I do n't know why mathjobs uses the term " reapply , " which certainly has the potential to cause confusion . I ca n't guarantee that nobody will hold it against you , but I 'd be very surprised if anyone did ( and I think it would be a big mistake on their part ) . Updating your application may not be enough if it has already been read . I 'd recommend also e-mailing key people you would like to work with to let them know about your new paper once it is on the arXiv . Of course you should n't spam large numbers of people , but sending out an announcement is perfectly appropriate if you restrict it to people who would genuinely like to hear about the paper for mathematical reasons , and not just as an advertisement for hiring you .
Seems it is n't actually that important . I sent them an email to clarify and they replied : Do n't worry too much about the standing of the journal or conference , as long as you list any publications and conferences that you have .
Yes you should . I expect that a common question in any interview would be to ask the candidate about any piece of work of which the candidate feels particularly proud or pleased . Being able to refer to your publication -- and have a copy of it with you -- would be a positive thing . Regarding your opinion of the work -- you might be your own worst critic . Clearly the journal editor felt it was acceptable for publication . In a positive spin , you could outline in your interview where you feel the work could have been improved , showing a capacity for reflective practice .
One possibility to put this to an end would be to submit to another journal by an e-mail where you would explain the situation ( the paper has been submitted elsewhere , you withdrew it when you realized it was not handled properly , and you got no acknowledgment of this withdrawal ) , and with a CC to the editor-in-chief of the first journal . That way , the editors of the new journal would know for certain that you withdrew before submitting again , and you would be covered from possible accusations by the first journal . However this corners the first journal in a difficult situation , so it might make them react violently ; I would warn them before hand , and only use this as a last recourse . You can also try to get advice and help from a senior in your field , who will know the editors and might help smooth things out . A third possibility would be to contact a relevant committee in an academic society ( EMS has an ethics committee that could be contacted about a publication in a math journal for example ) .
Write a nice thank you letter Keep in touch ; send an email every couple of years to let them know about your recent successes Pay it forward by investing your own time and energy into mentoring others , as time and opportunity permits My " gratitude role model " is a high school summer research student I had a few years ago . First , she gave me a card with a nice message at the end of the program . A year later , she emailed me to let me know that her time in my lab had really meant a lot to her , that she was still pursuing her interest in computer science , and that she was participating in another CS program that summer . From her next email , a year later , I found out that she had accepted an offer of admission ( for undergraduate studies ) from a top-20 computer science department . A couple of months ago , I got an email from my school 's K-12 outreach program ( which had organized her summer in my lab ) , informing me that this student had reached out to them to ask if she could volunteer in their programs this summer , while she 's back in town . Working with students can be a thankless task ; but the students like the one I described above really keep me going , and make me feel like it is time well spent . I can not imagine a better way to be thanked .
Whether or not you should be an author on the paper is not about whether you did something , but whether you contributed intellectually . For example , a lab technician who washed the petri dishes and while everyone was working on the experiment in the background turned the dial of the radio to the station that everyone wanted to listened to ( i.e. , determined one parameter that was crucial to the experiment ) , did contribute to the experiment . But it was not an intellectual contribution , and so authorship is probably not warranted . Without more details in your question , it is hard to tell whether you should or should not be an author on the paper . But , this is worth a conversation with your adviser . It 's likely going to be a slightly awkward conversation , but it is one in which you can talk about the norms in your field , what qualifies as an " intellectual contribution " and why or why not everyone on the paper should or should not be an author .
I agree with your inclination : explaining your research programme , arguably the most important part of a tenure-track job talk , at the end seems counter-productive , to say the least . Moreover , I would definitely not spend only 5 minutes of your talk on your programme . 10 minutes seems like the absolute minimum in a one-hour job talk . More generally , job talks tend to consist of five parts : The " About Me " part that usually kicks off the talk . Keep this short , as it is essentially pretty boring for the audience . The " Intro " of the research field . Explain your audience what you are actually doing . Here , the point is not so much to sell your own work within the field , but to sell the field itself to the faculty . Your " Research Agenda " within the field . As I mentioned above , arguably the most important part of the talk . The biggest mistake here is to step into what I call the " parameter optimization " trap - making it seem like your research agenda consists primarily of small incremental improvements of your PhD thesis . The " Zoom In " . Take out one part of your work , and explain in detail what you have been doing . The " Outlook " . Wrap the talk up with an outlook . Where is your field going , where are you going , how would your joining change the research of the faculty ? One problem is knowing how far in-depth each of these segments should be . My PhD advisor used to say that bullets ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) need to be easy enough to understand that every CS faculty can follow , but deep enough that it still perceived as important and valuable research . For bullet ( 4 ) , it is ok ( maybe expected ) that the details are not all that accessible anymore for faculty working in very different fields . However , at Bullet ( 5 ) , you need to pick up your entire audience again .
Unless you are banned by a society and forbidden to publish in their journals for some reason ( e.g. plagiarism ) , there are fences between two different journal submission systems . And no rule known to me . However , two aspects require caution : close journals , especially with the same publisher , may have the same editors , area editors , etc. . It is interesting to check the editor list and check for an overlap since reviewers are hard to find , I suspect that a publisher may have a database of all its parts reviewers ( whatever the journal ) . So with a similar paper , the same keywords , you might as well end up with the same reviewer . Who might have mixed feelings about reviewing " the same paper " twice . From what I understand from your question , your paper might have been mildly reviewed , possibility checked by an editor , who made the decision himself . So the second point might be as less concern .
As a prior commenter noted , you can be silent on the issue without prejudice from the admissions officer . In fact , it 's quite common for graduate students not to make the thesis/no thesis decision until they have a semester or a couple of quarters behind them . The decision to write a thesis is often the product of one 's evolution during graduate work . For example , if you were to decide that you want to pursue a doctorate , then writing a thesis has distinct advantages , the most important of which is that it prepares you for writing a dissertation . Conversely , if you want the broadest knowledge and lab experience , course work is preferable .
You want to be friendly , of course , and make a good impression . Depending on the school , these meetings are not usually too grueling ; one purpose of the meetings is just to put a face with your name . There is a good chance these meetings will end up being shorter than the scheduled time . Be prepared to give a very brief " elevator style " summary of your work . The deans may ask you about grant funding . You may have a good sense , depending on your field , how important grants are to you getting the position . ( Andy W mentioned this in the comments ) . Some particular questions I would ask include : I would ask all three : Where do you see the program/college/university going in another 10 years ? This can help you tell whether your vision for a school fits with theirs . I would ask the Dean of Science about tenure practices in the college . Do your homework and read the tenure policies before you arrive , of course . As long as you are polite and non-pushy , you can ask for clarifications for anything that is n't clear . You can ask about tenure rates in general , but do n't ask anything that would require talking about individual candidates . If you are in a field where grants are important , you should also be sure you know the weight given to grants when they make tenure decisions . If you will need anything unusual ( e.g. large start-up equipment costs ) , you should mention that to a departmental representative first , and they can advise whether it needs to be mentioned to the dean . If you are trying to arrange a second hire for a spouse , the dean may be able to discuss that . Again , you can talk with the department first . CAUTION : This bullet only applies to applicants who are also interested in finding a job for their spouse , and who have decided to bring up their spouse before getting an offer . There is n't room in this answer to get into the debate about whether it is preferable to wait until you have an offer to mention that your spouse is looking for a job , which is another commonly advocated strategy for applicants looking to find a job for their spouse at the same institution .
Should I still include a reference to indicate this image is not my own work YES If the idea is not yours , you need to reference it . Who should be given credit That is a harder question . Ideally , you should find the original author/source . Given a reasonable attempt to find the original author/source fails then reference the secondary/reproduction ( i.e. , wikipedia/wikimedia ) .
[ Expanding @Thomas 's comment into an answer , so the question may be resolved ] The best way to figure out how a person would like their name listed is to simply ask them directly , as opposed to attempting to infer it from their biographical information . Thus , when you are putting together the program , name tags , etc. let the form have a blank saying something like : Name , as you would like it to appear in the official conference program Note that sometimes people want something different on their badge and on official listings , so it 's worth having two blanks if you are asking about badges as well .
Oftentimes , and that 's valid esp . for academia , a call will be better than an email . It 's really easy to oversee ( deliberate or not ) an email , but if you call , the editor ( or a secretary ) has to answer . And if you have someone on the line you can ask your questions directly and he has to answer or give you sme other sort of feedback . It 's annoying for a lot of us , since an email is easier , faster , you can better oversee what you 're writing and you do n't have to call someone and speak to him personally . But from an efficency point of view , a call is in most of the cases the best approach . Just ask polite , do n't make some sort of accusation or preasure somthing , but that are the same rules that apply for emails .
When an article is technically wrong , describes things that have been done dozens of times elsewhere or is just awfully written , then I recommend rejection , no matter the journal . After that , journal guidelines ( not the perceived or actual journal " quality " ) come into play : Match with the journal 's scope Journal requirements on novelty of ideas ( several journals are ok with articles that fill some gap in an otherwise well-understood field , but some very high-profile journals would like to see papers with significant novelty ) Methodological requirements ( e.g. some journals require that simulation results are validated against analytic results or measurement results ) So , there is some baseline , but afterwards it depends on the journal scope .
Skype interviews are usual ( e.g. I have one with Oxford ) . The school might prefer face-to-face interviews but there is nothing wrong in sending a polite ( brief ! ) email .
As a disclaimer , I have not been in this exact situation : in my field ( mathematics ) there are few conference papers , and the number of journals with strict length requirements is small enough that I have never reviewed a paper which violated the requirements . Nevertheless : In my experience it is customary in academic and professional contexts that if you submit something that does not adhere to the rules of submission , then you should expect that your submission will be rejected for that reason alone . Now it may be the case that rather than definitively rejecting your submission you are told , " Hey , please fix X so that your submission can be considered " ... and it may not . There is much talk of grant applications that are rejected because something in the fine print of the submission rules was not followed . In your case , you have noticed that one of the submission requirements has been violated , apparently in a nontrivial way ( " by more than 10 % " ) . In my opinion your clearest ethical obligation is to convey this knowledge to the editors . It is really unfair if the requirement gets completely ignored and the paper gets published anyway whereas some other authors are either getting dinged for not following the same rules or are working much harder ( and perhaps , trading on the quality of their paper ) in order to follow them . So I think your first step should be to point this out to the editors . If you like , you can convey your willingness to look at a new version in a timely manner . You could even say that you are reading the version that you already have and are willing to work on a report under the assumption that the authors will later submit a version which is essentially the same but meets the length requirements . But I think that 's about as far as you can go . If the submission really is permanently rejected based on the length then the authors will resubmit to another conference/journal and they 'll get their feedback at that time ( possibly even from you ! ) . Viewing the fact that you received the paper and are not at this time writing a report on it to the authors as some kind of disservice to them is probably the wrong way to view it : this is really part of the usual business of academic refereeing . Added : As long as you point out the failure to meet the length requirement , I certainly see no ethical problem with passing on whatever evaluation of the paper you want . In fact , when communicating with the editors if you think that the paper is otherwise very strong then it would be useful to say that . However , it seems to me that it is possible that the editors might decide that since the length requirements have been violated the paper will be rejected and the authors will not receive a referee report . Thus your careful comments are not guaranteed to be conveyed to the authors . This seems like a good argument for checking in with the editors before writing a full-blown report .
If you mean " is it outrageous to ask a librarian to collect research papers for you , " then no , it 's not outrageous ; some librarians do that , though rarely the librarians working in public libraries . For most university students ( at least in the US . You 're in Indonesia so the system may vary , ) they go to their school libraries because the collections are much closer to their fields of study . The librarians are also more proficient in handling academics-related questions . If you do have an affiliated university , I 'll check with the librarians there first . If you do n't have one , then I 'll next try to contact some librarians of state-funded or nationally funded universities ( especially if you are a tax payer . ) Most of these public schools open their libraries or provide limited consultation to the public . It would also be valuable to ask if they have any kind of borrower program or consortium you can join : later you may need to download a lot of journal articles and having an access to their server can save you a lot of money . If both of these are no goes , then you can try the public libraries . However , the librarians may not be available to fetch articles for you . Instead , you may ask them for resources ( pamphlet , booklet , website ) on how to perform a literature search ( I 'm assuming literature , but they can also show you other curated forms such as microfilm , legal archive , etc. ) Most public libraries do not subscribe highly professional/specialized journals due to the high price , so realize that your scope can be limited somewhat . If all of these yield no results . I 'd suggest at least pay a graduate students or instructor for 2-3 hours to give you a general rundown/tutorial . As I have said , most librarians will not be able to do the search for you . And it 's better for you , as the researcher , to have the first hand experience and control of the process . At the very least , try ask the librarians about database you should search , how to select keywords , how to export and keep results , what bibliography software is available , reference books on writing literature review etc. . Lastly , the quality of help you are going to get is proportional to the clarity of your vision about the work . The more concrete you can describe your work , the easier for them . Things you should consider are as follows : What is the topic ? What is ( are ) the main question ( s ) you want to answer ? -- in this part , be very explicit about time , location , and other important qualifier ( think <URL> ) How far back in time do you need to go ? What is the purpose of the document ? E.g. For a blog , for a grant proposal , or for an assignment ?
There are no problems associated with you reviewing a paper again , regardless if it resubmitted to the same or a different journal . Since you have seen the paper earlier and know its earlier problems you can better judge how it has improved and to what extent it is now publishable . You should definitely let the editor know that you have been involved in the process of this paper earlier even if he/she has not indicated the paper has been rejected somewhere before . That information provides the editor with a better perspective of the development of the paper and can make the decision to accept or reject easier since the willingness or capability of the author ( s ) to improve the manuscript is set in perspective . You can always contact the editor and state that you are willing to take on the review but felt it was necessary to convey the information . I do not see it as necessary but it is of course a nice gesture .
end question
start question
Can we buy licenses for e-books and lend them to students ?
One of the problems with how software is licensed , is it is not always clear when you are violating the EULA . After consultations with our library and IT department , we bought a large number of iPads that students can borrow from the school . We have loaded these iPads with a number of useful books , including our core textbooks . The IT and the library felt the issues with iPads were less than with lending the ebook directly or using laptops . The issue with laptops is that each user would generally have a separate and private account while for an iPad there is only one account . Your best bet is to talk to someone else and get them to sign off on it .
I believe this is an institution-dependent issue . Different departments and schools may have very different approaches as to what is formally allowed . In this day and age , however , collaborations , particularly between different departments or institutions , is generally looked on favorably . Whether it rises to an " official " arrangement or not , however , is clearly a different matter . I do n't believe that this is normally done via an employment contract ; I think this is handled according to the regulations of the department -- so the chair or graduate officer ( or whoever normally approves student-advisor matches ) would have to sign off on the arrangement . The responsibility for making sure all appropriate procedures are followed , however , lies with the advising team . ( In general , this only matters with respect to the thesis committee and matters related to the thesis defense itself . ) The only other situation which might complicate matters is if both advisors are jointly funding the student ; then the situation is certainly thornier . However , for such purposes , usually one advisor is the " hosting " advisor who has the primary responsibility for the student , which normally obviates the need for a complicated contract .
Unless there is an unusually rigid set of controls and policies in the instructor 's department , it is generally always the case that the instructor can change the syllabus on the fly . With any decent instructor , there is usually a good reason for doing so , such as incorporating an improvement the instructor has figured out partway through or adding extra emphasis on a section that people seem to be having trouble with . With a poor instructor , on the other hand , I do n't think that the situation can be rescued by making the syllabus more rigid . As such , my interpretation of the disclaimer is that it 's simply a way to insulate the professor from complaints of students who take a rigid interpretation . From the students ' side , I think it means little , only acknowledging a reality of instruction .
<URL> directly addresses memberships for NIH : Dues or Membership Fees Allowable as an F&amp;A cost for organizational membership in business , professional , or technical organizations or societies . Payment of dues or membership fees for an individual 's membership in a professional or technical organization is allowable as a fringe benefit or an employee development cost , if paid according to an established organizational policy consistently applied regardless of the source of funds . I agree with your conclusion about books for NSF grants , and their page oddly does n't list information about memberships . I would imagine that it could arguably fall under the section related to conference fees , but that 's conjecture .
I 'm sure some advisors do act this way . I do n't think it 's very common , but it does happen . It 's more common for advisors to expect certain results than a particular hourly commitment , but all these things are a matter of extent . However , in trying to figure out whether to switch advisors , I think you 're asking yourself the wrong question . The right question is : What type of advising relationship works for you ? If you feel energized , motivated , and happy under your current conditions , that 's one thing . If you feel overburdened and miserable , then you should probably look for a different advisor . Even the most competitive Ph.D. programs have faculty who are not so demanding . You have to figure out what type of style works best for you and try to find an advisor who is a good match .
The site <URL> will probably be helpful to you . The front page of the site offers a simple choice in fairly plain language : I want it simple and permissive . The MIT License is a permissive license that is short and to the point . It lets people do anything they want with your code as long as they provide attribution back to you and do n't hold you liable . jQuery and Rails use the MIT License . I 'm concerned about patents . The Apache License is a permissive license similar to the MIT License , but also provides an express grant of patent rights from contributors to users . Apache , SVN , and NuGet use the Apache License . I care about sharing improvements . The GPL ( V2 or V3 ) is a copyleft license that requires anyone who distributes your code or a derivative work to make the source available under the same terms . V3 is similar to V2 , but further restricts use in hardware that forbids software alterations . Linux , Git , and WordPress use the GPL . The site also has <URL> giving more choices , and more detail about the differences between licenses . I would strongly advise that you do n't use a Creative Commons license for your code . Creative Commons themselves <URL> : We recommend against using Creative Commons licenses for software . Instead , we strongly encourage you to use one of the very good software licenses which are already available . We recommend considering <URL> by the <URL> or <URL> by the <URL> . More detail in their <URL> . Personally I use the GPL ( version 3 ) for most of the code I release . For very small programs -- roughly speaking , anything shorter than the license text of the GPL itself -- I tend to use the MIT license . This is partly because I 'm less concerned about the fate of such small code snippets , and partly because it feels a little silly to have more license than code in a release . As a side note -- although you have n't mentioned this possibility -- please resist any temptation to invent a new license , unless you have a really compelling reason . <URL> is a big problem , and your code will be less useful if people have to pay a lawyer to determine whether your license is legally compatible with some other software they 're trying to use in conjunction with yours . In general , I would suggest picking one of the " big three " mentioned above unless you have specific reasons against this . Edit : I just saw your comment about the appropriateness of using a GNU license for Matlab code . There is no problem here : there is no concept of " contamination " between the license of your code and the license of the language it 's written in . In fact , it would be hard to implement such a restriction , because languages as such do n't have licenses : only their implementations do . Many programming languages have both closed-source and open-source implementations -- this includes Matlab , although <URL> , the GPL implementation of the language , is not 100 % compatible with the original version . However , for Matlab specifically , you might want to consider the BSD license , because <URL> . ( If you never intend to share your code on MATLAB central , this is less of a problem . )
I 've had classes of this size where I have each student do an individual presentation . It is very time consuming but I also feel it can be very worthwhile . If you give each student 10 minutes to present some information and you have 50 students then you will have 12-13 hours for presentations ( allowing 15 minutes total per student including Q&amp;A , changing students , etc. ) If you teach in 2-hour sessions then it will consume 6-7 sessions . If you have 30-32 sessions per semester it is doable but it also removes a significant chunk of time from lecturing . In my case , I lectured for several weeks ( giving the students time to do their research and giving them the foundations they needed for their presentations ) and then had the students give their presentations . Then I continued lecturing with other assessments later on . The module was not about presentation skills but I do feel that in each subject , we need to teach the students some general skills ( structuring an argument , how to format text , how to research , giving a presentation , etc. ) in addition to the module content . The students ended up understanding the material quite well when judged by their presentations and I found many of them quite eager to learn how they could improve their presentation skills . In the end , I was happy with the overall results and plan to do it again .
According to the <URL> , the location number is actually a bad idea because it has limited retrievability . The blog also mentions that since Kindle 's third generation , e-books have started to have real page numbers , you may try looking into that . Another post on <URL> suggests that for materials that are not paginated , consider citing chapter number or chapter heading plus paragraph numbers .
A research statement is a mix of past and future . When you are talking about the past , you should be honest about the fact that you are not working in isolation -- in fact , that is a good thing . Use " we " or " my collaborators and I " or whatever most accurately describes what actually happened . The other key part of a research statement , however , is your views about the future : what you think is important , what your ambitions are for the future , etc. . Those are unambiguously your own opinions , and should be " I " statements .
Sleep deprivation is a serious detriment when it comes to a person ( or in the context of this questions a students ) Academic , extracurricular and social life . As a university its job is to mainly offer a conducive working environment that helps students achieve their goals and develop their full potential . With this " duty " of a university in mind , we also have to factor in the individual sensitivity of a student and as to how best we can cater or create a policy ( in your case project ) that best caters to the biggest amount of individuals . <URL> Time provides a look at one of the projects colleges have resorted to tackle this problem . The idea of a " nap " is also something that could be a universal answer to this whole sleep deprivation scenario because again , the school does not have control over what the student may do at most it can gives suggestions through workshops , but one thing that appeals to most if not all individuals is a nap that allows you to feel refreshed . Taking the context of the Philippines into account ( with a tropical climate ) I 'm assuming the best course of action would be to hold a ' nap station ' in a cold maybe dimmer environment and record people 's willingness to participate in said station . This can give incite to further projects and perhaps even help motivate the idea of the " need " of such stations . Hope this helps !
I agree with you and shan23 , it does n't really matter , but the newer is probably better . Well , to be bluntly honest , I tend to have a negative a-priori when I see an author of a paper with a gmail address ( especially when I review it , when it 's not double-blind ) . I know it 's stupid , because it should only be about the quality of the work , but I ca n't really help it . Mostly because I know that there is no authentication with gmail address ( I potentially could get an alan.turing@gmail.com address ) . I think it 's ok to give an address that will change , after all , few people spend their entire career in the same institution .
I agree that it makes sense to set expectations as early as possible . I 'd just put Note that all XXX for this course are in English . in the syllabus . You should of course be specific as to what XXX is : Class slides Required reading Supplemental reading Lectures ( you could have slides in English but speak the local language during the actual lecture ) Quizzes Exams If quizzes/exams are in English , you should also note whether students would be expected to answer in English . Whether or not you also want to include the reasons for this is really up to how much space you have in the syllabus and whether there is n't anything more important to put there . I 'd say that a warning might be a better use for the space : If your English is not up to reading/understanding/writing technical documents , this course likely is not a good fit for you .
For fixing , I think the advice in the linked question is the way to go : contact the publisher and ask them to correct it . This is what errata are for , and it 's perfectly normal . I think the harder question is what to do about the future . On the one hand , the non-distinguishability of I and l are just going to keep causing problems ( as can be seen from this very sentence ! ) and you rarely have control of fonts . On the other hand , it 's your personal identity at stake . Do you really want to change your name for the sake of typography ? This is a problem that I see faced by a large number of researchers who do n't have names that perfectly transliterate into English . One of my French colleagues , for example , is very insistent on getting the accents correct on his name , while others just ignore it and let things fall to the lowest ( anglicized ) denominator . You 're going to need to make a decision based on your personal relationship with your identity . If it 's important to you , stick to your proper name and just know that you 're going to need to be proactive in checking and correcting in every paper you deal with . Fortunately , there 's usually a proof stage for just this type of issue . If you 'd rather not bother , then by all means embrace the simple lower-case solution . One way or another , though , you should settle on a decision by somewhere in the middle of graduate school . Do n't worry too much about some confusion in the early papers : if you make a career of research , the early papers will fade behind your later work ; if you do n't , it wo n't matter .
I would say several points related to the candidates such as How much in average do candidates publish per year ? Where do they publish ? What conferences they presented their papers in ? What are the impact factors for journals they publish in ? What new research questions or directions do they have ? How much citations did they received ? With whom in the group they can collaborate ? What funds do they have or can bring ? What experience in writing proposals do they have ? What are some similar proposals that received funds ? Where their research is going in the next 5-10 years ? What industry or academic experience do they have ? What skills do they have ? Can they enhance research group diversity ? Can they teach , present and discuss well ?
You have no current employer . If they 've offered and you accepted , then they could be listed , but until there 's paperwork , they are not your current . I have seen people list " none " or " Student " as Current Employer .
Ask your university librarian . Usually universities libraries collaborate with each other . They can look whether the other universities have the book ( I know this happens within Canadian universities ) . .
You must do something . Building social relationships with your work collegagues is really important . If other students are organizing the collection and suggesting an amount , I would give that much . If they are organizing the collection , but not suggesting an amount , I would chip in two beers worth of cash . In some cultures two beers will be on the generous side , while in ther cultures it will be on the cheap side . It wo n't be out of place in any culture . If no one is organizing the collection and you want to take charge , then I would suggest asking people to chip in one beer worth of money ( all students should be able to afford this ) . If no one is organizing a collection and you do n't want to take charge , go out and buy a card and get the other students to sign it .
I know some universities that prefer email addresses that demonstrate the university affiliations of your referees , so that they know the letters will actually come from the listed referees rather than the student pretending to be the referees with a free gmail account . If the referee has multiple university affiliations , then I would recommend the one associated with the university in which you and the referee became acquainted with each other . For example , if you did an internship with a professor at university B , even though the professor holds a tenure position at university A as well , it is better to use the email address of university B in such a situation . Of course , some professors do not use the mail account provided by the universities , and thus you should consult with your referee first to make sure that you give the email address that the referee actually checks .
We can make the same conversation for BSc or MSc degrees . There are probably many unemployed people with BSc degrees , as well . We can not suggest that people should not go for higher education , because there are actually fewer jobs than university graduates . Your question seems to neglect an important , yet simple truth . That sometimes , certain people want to go for a higher degree , regardless of their job outcome . Education ( PHD included ) is more than filling resumes or getting a better job but a fulfillment in itself . In this sense , it is the same as learning to play the guitar . Does the world need a new guitar player ? No it does not . But you do not learn the guitar to benefit society . You learn the guitar to benefit your soul . If the few lucky PHD holders manage to get the job they wanted that is fine . If they did not , at least they tried . Life is not linear and you can not predict by your actions on what job you will land , even if you do everything perfectly . But at least , you must be provided with a chance to try . In that sense , it is better than there are actually more PHDs available than the available jobs for PHD holders . More people have access to an even higher education and that is ( as aeismail said ) a benefit in itself . So to directly answer your question : Do we need more PHDs ? No , we do n't . Would the world be a better place if you or I get a PHD ? No , it wo n't . Would we get the job we want with a PHD ? Probably not . But that does not mean that I must not have the right to do a PHD and try my chances .
Assuming the empirical studies with topic X involves the application of various methods associated with X , aspect of citing the number of available examples depends on your motive . If you are illustrating a method , then citing only a few like two or three would be fine . This can be when you wish to show the applicability ( or inapplicability ) of a method Y for the topic X citing only few of the papers that uses Y on X. On the other hand , if you wish to do a detailed study on different methods applied in different ways on topic X , then you would have to cite all the available empirical studies done on X. Note that you would also have to give an account on each of the material you have cited . This would be the obvious case for a proper survey .
end question
start question
What effects ( if any ) do audited undergraduate courses have on graduate admissions ?
My question is : will this have any positive benefits while I 'm applying to graduate school ? I think you are asking whether it will make your application more competitive . Answer : not much . At many/most universities , anyone can audit any course at any time , and it does n't certify anything more than that they showed up for class -- in some cases not even that . I had an auditor in a course this semester who showed up for the first half of the lectures and not for the second half . My response : ok . It shows up in my records -- so presumably also hers -- that she audited the course . I am not asked to assign a grade of any kind . Or would the admissions committee assume that I did n't learn as much as someone who actually took the course , and take it with a grain of salt that I know the material ? They would probably not assume anything at all . They would certainly not regard this as being evidence that you learned the material : getting a poor grade in a course certainly does not demonstrate learning of the material , and auditing shows less than that . Of course you can learn things by auditing a course . But you can also learn by outside reading and in other ways . However most students at this level learn more by actually taking a course , and of course if you do well in the course then that knowledge gets certified ( to an extent ) and can be used advantageously in your graduate application . Story check : you say that you have two years left of undergraduate study and ca n't find time to officially take one course that you think will be beneficial to your intended graduate study . This professor who read graduate applications for several years finds that hard to believe . In two years you should be able to work in the time to take one extra course , e.g. by ( i ) taking courses over the summer or ( ii ) getting excused from one course in a sequence , say by taking an exam which shows your competence . This is something to talk to your undergraduate advisor about .
E-mail a few days in advance . Just showing up puts everyone on the spot , and could end poorly . It could also turn your visitor off .
In this case , you should let your advisor know , because the time spent in the classroom is time not spent in the lab . Since he 's paying you for your time , if you will be doing daytime activities that will take time away from research he has a right to know about it . On a different note , depending on how auditing works in your university , there may be costs associated with your auditing the course , and he ( or his grant ) would be covering these costs . Generally speaking , the more communication between you and your advisor , the better .
From my personal experience it is unusual for undergrad students to have taken 16 math graduate courses while he/she is still in the junior year . What you have taken clearly exceeds the expectations of most graduate programs . If the professors who taught the classes think highly of you , that could be a strong selling point for your graduate school application . As for research experience , you may not want to take it too seriously as a budding mathematician . As Krantz explained in the book A Mathematician 's Survival Guide ( which , btw , is a book you may want to read ) : Mathematics is a bit different [ than other natural sciences ] . We do n't use test tubes . The hard fact of life is that mathematics is a subject that builds vertically . You are not really qualified to do serious research - the sort of research that mathematicians actually do - until after you pass the qualifying exams . So research experience is great in exposing you to the world of math research , but your coursework performance may be sufficient to get you to the graduate school you want to be . I think most graduate programs wo n't mind that you are graduating in three years as long as you complete the same workload as those who graduate in four years . I should say that I 'm not in a math PhD program ; so take my advice with a grain of salt .
Would , say , a MechE/CS student maintain a leg up applying to a CS program related to robotics ? A Math/CS applying to theory-based CS ? Does it vary between fields ? All else being equal , YES . Speaking specifically for theoretical computer science , I am much more likely to recommend a PhD applicant for admission if they have a strong mathematics background . A second major is not the more important thing , though ; majors are just administrative hurdles . I look for which advanced math classes the applicant has taken , how the recommendation letters describe their mathematical ability/maturity , and how fluently they use mathematics in their research statement . Yes , the effect varies significantly between fields . For example , my robotics colleagues are much more likely to recommend applicants with strong mathematics backgrounds , and my software engineering colleagues are much more likely to recommend applicants with software industry experience . Of course , as Daniel points out , <URL> is never <URL> .
Some people will tell you that colors should n't matter because only data should matter . Those people are wrong . All human readers ( including reviewers ) find some graphical presentations easier to digest and comprehend than others , and the choices that matter include color . Of particular note , it is often important to consider color-blind readers , who are <URL> . Color sets that work well for color-blind readers often work well for non-color-blind readers as well . You can find a number of good resources online to help you decide what colors to use , such as this <URL> site , among many others .
I think what you know and how strong your recommendation letters are the most important factors during the application process . Usually people need to take several foundamental courses to have a solid background before conducting research in math . And you also need to have some undergraduate research experience . So a degree in math is the most efficient way to get this . But it can also be achieved even though you do n't have a degree in math . My undergraduate degree is business administration but I have taken around 20 math courses including 10 analysis courses and several algebra and geometry courses during my undergraduate study . Currently I am going to start a research master program in pde and applied analysis and I hope I can do research in math in the future . So yes , you can . But you need to make extra effort to fill up the gaps .
Many master 's degrees have other components besides required coursework , e.g. " comprehensive " exams , projects , a thesis . Certainly to get a master 's degree you need to fulfill all the requirements . Someone who is taking master 's level courses piecemeal should check to see whether and in what way they can fulfill these additional requirements . This may depend on the details of the enrollment . However , in most cases that I know about , the department and the faculty wo n't care much about the administrative fine print , so long as the student is doing well in the courses and shows herself capable of doing whatever extra work is required . If you do fulfill all the requirements of a master 's degree , then you get a master 's degree . Whether you were employed by the university at the time has nothing to do with the degree and probably would not show up on the transcript . By the way , in many academic fields most or all graduate students are employed by the university in one manner or another -- e.g. as a PhD student , I taught every other semester , and every semester that I was teaching I received a separate ID card listing me as an officer of the university . I had quite a few of these cards by the time I graduated . Added : In order to get a degree , you need to be enrolled in the program . There is such a thing as a " non-degree student " ; you might want to look that up . What I and Bill Barth are saying is that , in practice , a non-degree student who is doing well in the coursework and shows herself able to complete all the requirements of the degree has a good shot at getting enrolled in the degree program .
First and foremost , ask the editor . Sometimes space limits are hard , and sometimes they are soft , and you often ca n't tell the real story just by reading the journal 's stated guidelines . If the limits are soft , you do n't really have a problem . Nevertheless , do n't get verbose : the reviewer probable did n't just say " Give more introductory material , " they probably pointed at specific types of shortcomings in your current material . Focused improvement of material may not actually take much length at all . If the limits are hard , then begin by writing as though the limits were soft . I always find it best to start by writing the paper they way you want to write it , and then figuring out how best to reduce . If you start by worrying too much about length , then you are likely to cut the wrong parts , because you ca n't see the structure of the whole while you are writing . Once you 've got a paper that 's too long , then <URL> .
It 's not a deal breaker . I had awful grades in many courses but I got offers with TA/RA-ship/fellowships from a couple of top 25 US PhD programs in Math . The reason , I think , was that I had very high GRE scores , I had participated in undergraduate/masters " research " projects for a few years with professors at my schools , and I had pretty good recommendations . My research statement was normal and earnest . I did n't have any extraordinary ideas nor some well defined research agenda in it . I think that , overall , the rest of my portfolio made up for my awful grades . In your case , it 's just one course . That does not signal any systematic problem . If you feel particularly insecure , you can address it in your personal statement but do n't talk about the professor in question negatively , instead you can focus on how you were tardy once but it does not reflect your work usual work ethic . I can not speak for top 10 schools . They may have a sufficiently large pool of applicants who may beat you on every metric . Also , Math departments at large public Universities generally need lots of bodies to TA/grade their numerous remedial and baby-calc type undergraduate courses and generally do the culling at the qualifying exam stage . You may find their standards for an incoming PhD class to be more forgiving .
Yes it definitely can be done . If you have an idea then do a literature review of the subject and if you have a contribution that builds on the activity in one of the journals you find then publish there . Perhaps also look into doing a conference paper first . See <URL> for the difference between the two . The best co-author for your case would probably be a professor or grad student at your university . No , co-authors are not required . They can be useful though if you need their help/skills in the project . In computer science , journal papers usually occur during one 's PhD . Bright Masters and Honours students usually start publishing conference papers , but journal papers are not unheard of .
You 're not really a student at your new institution until you have actually arrived and registered there . At this point , it would appropriate to say something like : I will be a graduate student at Institute X with anticipated start date D You can certainly update your CV to convey that information immediately . As for other sites , typically they allow you to list a number of positions with starting and ending dates . If their system lets you list a start date in the future ( I have n't tried that on the particular sites you mention ) , then that would be a clear enough communication of your current and anticipated status . Otherwise , you can write the same sort of " anticipated start date " line in your free-text personal description .
Ideally , you use the bathroom before lecturing which should prevent you from needing the bathroom during the lecuture . In cases where you are unwell , I find it best to let the class know ahead of time to tell them you are unwell and might need to suddenly excuse yourself , but that you will be back . Regardless of if you have told the students in advance , if you must excuse yourself , do it politely and tell them you will be back in a few moments .
Is there any research on the question : how common is academic theft , really ? Such as surveys of people having experienced ( or committed ! ) such theft according to an appropriate definition , possibly compared to peoples perception as to the risks . See the related articles : De Vries , Raymond , Melissa S. Anderson , and Brian C. Martinson . " <URL> " Journal of empirical research on human research ethics : JERHRE 1.1 ( 2006 ) : 43 . and Martinson , Brian C. , Melissa S. Anderson , and Raymond De Vries . " <URL> " Nature 435.7043 ( 2005 ) : 737-738 . Among a sample of 3,247 NIH-funded scientists in the United States , asked about the behavior " Using another 's ideas without permission or giving due credit " : 1.4 % said they themselves have engaged in this behavior within the last three years 45.7 % agreed with the statement , " I have observed or had other direct evidence of this behavior among my professional colleagues including postdoctoral associates , within the last three years . " Please read the article for methodology , limitations , etc. .
The other answers do n't really address the issue of recommendations , so let me , at least briefly . I 've been on our math PhD admission committee several times and we get many applications from people who 've gotten their undergrad some time ago . First , yes there is some truth to it being easier to get in right after your undergrad degree . The letters of recommendation are important . If your professors know you quite well , and the department is relatively small , they should still be able to write you decent letters after a year or two hiatus , but if it gets to 5-10 years , they may not , and with that kind of time lapse , their letters wo n't count for as much anyway . My advice would be to consider what else you want to do . Is there something else you really want to do for awhile ( peace corps , travel , interesting job opportunity ) ? If so , it wo n't kill your chances for grad school , but you may have to apply to more backup schools . If you 're out for longer , it might be best to do a masters first before getting into a PhD program . If you do n't have any definite ideas , why do n't you try applying to a few masters programs ( Vladhagan 's suggestion of trying a masters first is a good idea to give you a sense of what you want to do and give yourself a better background ) and a few PhD programs that seem interesting to you ? At the same time , maybe go to a career fair and send out a few job applications in the spring ? The PhD programs that accept you ( at least if you 're in the US ) at least should give you an opportunity to visit , so even if you 're undecided about a PhD in the spring , visiting these schools ( and similarly any job interview impressions ) may help you make a decision .
I think the variations here are national rather than by discipline . In the U.S. , the thesis committee 's primary role is that of a review panel when all is going well , and as a neutral arbiter between student and advisor when it is n't . Again , there is no formal obligation on the part of the committee -- except when convened by the student or advisor , but this typically occurs on a more frequent basis ( every one to two years or so ) . As individuals , however , committee members may be consulted with on various topics ( job placement and career strategies , suggestions for future research directions , and so on ) ; however , this is voluntary and , again , not very frequent -- probably one or two times per year . In Germany , by comparison , the primary obligation occurs at the time of the thesis defense , when they serve as evaluators . Outside of this , you might never meet with the professors on your committee , other than your primary advisor .
Most central European universities do n't traditionally have QEs . However , it seems to me as if it is getting more popular to have something after the first one or two years of your programme . Two data points : In my current university , PhD students need to defend their thesis proposal after ( maximum ) two years . This includes writing their proposal , receiving written comments by two other ( i.e. , not their advisor ) professors of the faculty , and presenting and defending their proposal in front of the entire faculty ( our faculty is pretty small ) . Questions are asked in this defense , but not typically about material that is not directly linked to the proposal . In theory students can fail at this step , but is is very uncommon . The goal is rather to force students ( and advisors ) to have a clear goal of where the thesis is going early on , something that was historically a bit of a problem . When I did my PhD , we did not really have any sort of entry exam or defense in my alma mater . However , since then , they have switched to a model not unlike what I explained above . The main difference is that proposals are only presented ( there is no written document ) , and that only a small committee is responsible for giving feedback on the proposal ( not the entire faculty ) . This defense has to be taken one year after start of the PhD . Failing this defense is again very uncommon . Summary : the places I am well aware of do n't have stressful QEs . Instead , we traditionally had pretty much nothing . Nowadays , many places have a proposal defense instead of a QE , but this is not a step that students typically have to be stressed out about .
The first two kinds of questions should be asked in the course 's public discussion area so that the answers will benefit all students . Since you 've used " all the other tools " in the course , perhaps you 've done that . I suggest a concerned phone call to the department chair . If the professor is not present in the course at all , ask , " Is Dr. X OK ? He has n't been in the course in several weeks . " If he 's around , but ignoring you , ask , " Do you know whether I 've somehow offended Dr. X ? He has n't answered any of my questions in several weeks . " The point is to give the chair a chance to make corrections without having said anything like " ignoring me . " If it has already been several weeks , I 'd suggest doing this very soon . Be as specific as possible about dates when the instructor stopped responding , how other work such as quizzes is handled , etc. .
Now you are a postdoc and not a graduate student anymore . As such , you will have many research ideas , that you will not have the time to implement yourself . So , it is time for you to start delegating this work to " less experienced " workforce than you . That means undergraduate , master or PHD students . So , you should discuss it with your advisor that you have a new idea and that you are planning to propose a new undergraduate or MSc thesis . Perhaps he might even propose , working with a graduate student who is a bit stuck at his current stage of his / her PHD , so working in your new idea might be beneficial to both of you . In any of these cases , co-authorship issues should be discussed early and thorough . For undergraduate , MSc students usually the assumption is that they do most of the work ( it is their thesis after all ) but you write the paper and you get to be first author . For teaming with PHD students , things are a little bit trickier , so these issues should be discussed in detail , BEFORE the cooperation begins . Also , make sure that your PI is OK not to be included in the subsequent publication ( since this is your idea after all ) . Of course , if you want to include your PI in your " additional " publication then by all means , go ahead ( this will also help you bend his objections about the time you will spend on your new project ) . But if you do not , make sure you discuss it before doing it , so you will not get into hot water . In this scheme , not only you can multiply the number of your publications more easily and faster but also you help other people , who might be your future collaborators . So , you really have nothing to lose .
I apologize for the length of my reply , but I think this is a really great question that I discuss with undergraduates and even grad students all the time , and want to use this as an opportunity to share some of my thoughts with you . I completely agree with the points that Fbio Dias made in his answer . However , I want to add one general tip with you that I have found to be extremely effective in my experience both presenting talks and posters as well as judging them . The way I see it , when undergraduate talks/posters are judged , there may or may not be certain specific criteria against which you will be evaluated , but there are certain important subtleties in how you conduct yourself when talking about your work that will almost always affect your evaluation whether there is specific criteria or not . Let me clarify : As Fbio Dias mentioned , there are many important technical factors that are commonly taken into account when judging presentations , but aside from this , I believe that one of the most powerful tools to get great scores on research talks is to demonstrate some passion and interest into the work you are presenting . This is typically the biggest problem with undergraduate presentations . Undergraduates are often not very well-versed in the big picture of their research project and therefore end up simply presenting what they did and what data came of it and what they think it means ( or what their advisor told them it means ) . There is rarely any visible interest in the work , or evidence of creative thought on the part of the student , and this is the biggest factor that separates a great undergrad talk from all other undergrad talks . No matter how dull your research talk may or may not be to you , when you stand up there in front of all those people , make sure to talk and act like you 're the most excited person in the room about the work that you have done . This gets people 's attention , in my opinion , above all else . Some great ways of doing this are : Never , ever , ever , ever , ever read from your slides , especially your title . Always come up with a great " prose " way to describe your whole project and then your data . Try to look at your slides as little as possible , unless you 're pointing out something on a figure . Look at the audience , glance around the room . In a scientific forum setting , simple presentation skills often directly translate into command of the material being presented . A great way to prevent yourself from doing the above is to not have many words on your slides , this keeps people interested and keeps you from reading to the audience . Many undergrads believe that their research can not be presented without many words on the slides , but there is almost always a creative way to do this . Question yourself , and question your research . This does not mean you should tell the audience that your conclusions are not accurate , but rather avoid being too rigid in how you describe your conclusions . Avoid words phrases like ' definitely , ' ' clearly , ' ' this means that , ' ' we discovered , ' or any version of the word prove/proof/proved , unless used as a technical term such as ' mathematical proof . ' Always talk about your work in terms of what it could mean for the future , For example , talk about some interesting data that you could n't yet explain ; offer several possible ways to frame your conclusions ; try to add a few " next steps " to your presentation ( and not as a list on the last slide , but work it in in a few places as you talk about your work ) . If you anticipate a question or questions from the audience that you will probably not know how to answer , bring it out in the open as part of your presentation , and say that you are still working to understand that particular part of your project . Some of these things may seem trivial or obvious , but these are probably the most common " mistakes " undergraduate students typically make when giving oral presentations . I say " mistakes " lightly because it is obvious that sometimes the student simply does not get the proper guidance from their advisers , either about their project , or about how to present the work properly , or both . In these cases , of course , acting like you truly love your project may not be possible because it may not be true . But either way , what it boils down to usually , coming back to something Fbio Dias said above , is that at the undergraduate level , the expectation is less on whether the results are impressive , but rather whether you can demonstrate that you are a good researcher , and that you have done the most with the results that you have . Good Luck !
end question
start question
At what point in the rankings is having a PhD from one university no different than a PhD from another ( differently ranked ) university ?
It 's worth keeping in mind that the overall university ranking is not synonymous with how they are regarded in the field . Even the breakdowns by discipline are not always going to reflect how the university is perceived in a specific field . For example , a university may not be in the top 10 in these overall rankings or even in a discipline ( e.g. , Computer Science ) , but they may be considered in the top 10 or even the top 5 for specific research fields ( e.g. , Database research ) . For a PhD , the ranking in the field will probably carry more weight than the general ranking of the university ( depending on the field ) , as will the overall quality of the research .
Ignoring the journal in question is probably an overreaction . However , the best route to take is the first one -- the author of the copyrighted material is the one that has the most responsibility to assert her rights . Your duty is to notify the person whose work has been infringed upon that the violation has taken place . Once you 've done that , you 've achieved what 's ethically required of you . You are not obligated to take the matter up directly with the journal . ( However , you may do so if you so choose . )
Universities offer all sort of " benefits " to its employees . Some of these " benefits " do not have a monetary value ( e.g. , flexible work schedule ) . The benefits available to faculty are often different from the cleaning staff . Further there are differences in benefits between tenured/tenure track and adjunct faculty . I can only think of three benefits , that have a monetary value , for which there are differences between tenure track and tenured faculty Sabbatical : Some universities do not permit pretenure sabbaticals . It is often hard to differentiate if sabbatical eligibility is tied to tenure or time in service . <URL> provides different sabbatical benefits pre and post tenure . Housing Assistance : Some universities provide housing assistance ( discounted homes , mortgage assistance , loans , etc ) . Portions of the <URL> requires tenure . Parking : Some universities provide parking passes . <URL> provides reserved spaces for tenured faculty while other faculty and staff simply get a parking pass . In terms of perks that do not have a monetary value , this varies widely by department . Tenured faculty often get to be chair of the department ( which may or may not be a perk ) . Departments may also give tenured faculty priority in terms of teaching schedule , departmental and university service requirements , office space , and lab space . The sabbatical system , internal funding , and administrative support may be skewed in their favor also .
No , there are no general worldwide standards , other than " the examiners should be satisfied " . Your advisor is probably the best person to answer questions like this for your specific case .
To answer some of your questions , a lot of this will vary from university to university , and vary by location . One major aspect is to determine your research focus as early as possible and plan long and medium term objectives , and how these objectives are to be met at the beginning , in consultation with your advisors ( that is the advice I was given ) . Duration There is usually an upper limit of how long a student can take to complete the dissertation , and it is generally expected that the research , experiments , dissertation write up is performed within the time frame dictated by the university . Note , the length of time taken to complete the PhD is not necessarily a measure of how credible it is . ( I completed my PhD in Physics in 2.5 years ) . Papers are often published in consultation between you and your advisor ( s ) . But , during my PhD I was advised that it is a good idea to get some publications completed while you are studying ( I completed 4 while completing the research ) . Courses This varies between universities and places , for example , I was not required to take any courses whatsoever - just pure research . That is something you will need to check with any university you apply to . I did my PhD while working full time in an unrelated field , so I arranged regular ( fortnightly ) Skype meetings with my advisors , where short term goals were set and the medium and long term goals checked up on . As you are doing sciences by the looks of it , it will involve a considerable amount of experimentation ( potentially ) - some of it can be tedious , make sure you plan and get into that as soon as possible , while ensuring you get the most accurate possible data in a safe and efficient manner . Completion You complete your research when you have met your objectives and have , through research and experimentation , ' answered ' your research focus . What happens then varies between universities , some you will be expected to defend your thesis , and some , as in my case , your thesis is peer-reviewed . Once all that is done and your advisors and the university are satisfied , you will be told that you have passed ( in my case , I received a letter stating as such ) . But , the research never really ends , once you have that passion for that topic - you may find that the research continues , but now to be published as papers ( this also has been my experience ) . Find a topic that ignites the fire in you and you 'll find that the PhD is just the start of the journey . Finally and critically , make sure what you are doing is something that you find fascinating , something that you wo n't mind putting in many hours of research and work into . Choose something that is either your passion or something related to it . Get ready to challenge yourself on a regular basis . I hope this helps .
Traditionally , affiliation address must be where the research has been conducted therein ( this is the statement given by some scholarly journals in Guide for Authors ) . Professors normally use their official affiliation for any publication/presentation even if their university has not supported that research . Probably , because their secured salaries let them to work on an external project . This is different for graduate students , but still can be applied . In any case , nothing stops you for using both affiliations in your poster . Normally , a graduate student is gaining credit from his/her affiliation . Then , two affiliations can be indicative of your research potential , as you have not stuck to your academic project .
It is possible to get second masters degree in a similar or related field . Doing so might even help with getting into a top PhD program . That said , where you did your master ( s ) degrees is not the key to the kingdom or even the most important thing in your PhD application . Demonstrating that you are smart , hardworking , and excellent at research should be your goal . Another masters from a " better " University might help toward that end but it 's hardly the only or best way . Focus on doing excellent research , publishing that work in excellent scholarly venues in your field , and getting excellent letters of recommendation from people that are known and respected in the field . If you do those things , and if you also have good grades and test scores , you 'll be a strong candidate for any PhD program . I have seen people build that portfolio as an undergrad , in a masters program , as research staff at a university , or even in industry . What you do matters at least as much as where you do it .
The quality of the department has much more influence on the degree than the " famousness " of the campus -- whether it is a " main " campus or a " branch " campus . For instance , in my field , Chemical Engineering , the University of California has two departments that are widely acknowledged to be top ten : Berkeley and Santa Barbara . A degree from either of these schools would be recognized as essentially equal ; degrees from campuses like Davis or Los Angeles would be slightly less well received , but still be considered good . So , to some extent , it 's more the issue of the resources available at a given department , and its reputation within the community as a whole , that makes the difference . The campus as a whole is a distant second . ( As a similar example , the University of Minnesota is recognized as a top-five program in my field ; nobody would rank UMN as top five nationwide overall . )
At many ( most ? all ? ) universities , a committee is required to have at least one professor from outside the department ( other than the chair , if the chair holds a joint position ) . Other requirements are to have at least one professor at rank higher or equal to the rank of the chair ( the advisor ) .
Congratulations on receiving these two offers from good universities , both of which offer at least some funding . I make it that the difference between your two options is about $ 114000 over the three-year period that UK PhDs are usually funded for . This is probably a very large difference and it might be worth trying to ask somebody within your field who knows both institutions and departments whether that would be worth it . Certainly , self-funded students can survive PhDs in the UK , and your prospects of successfully completing are probably better than average if you are in engineering and tech . In addition , it may be a realistic prospect in the UK to receive payment for carrying out some teaching and demonstrating . I would advise asking about this possibility before you commit to option B. Look at the research council guidelines beforehand to try to gauge the best practices for salary and training . However , there may be more important criteria than money . In one department I worked in I saw hoards of both funded and self-funding students abandoned by a particular supervisor before they quit . Do n't let this be you . The ( prestigious ) department did nothing ; it was absolutely buyer beware . So the usual advice applies : Talk to your supervisor 's previous students , did they complete on time ? What are they doing now ? Did they see others around them succeed and being supported ? Did they feel the supervisor , department and university helped them to succeed ? Unfortunately , a top department is absolutely no guarantee of a non-toxic research culture in the group . If option A is research council funded ( or is funded by a high-profile UK body or another funder demanding results for their money ) , this would weigh heavily in my decision to take it , even if it is at a less prestigious university . There will be consequences for the group and department if a council-funded student fails to finish by the four-year deadline , and this means that both the supervisor and institution are absolutely committed to the student succeeding and solutions will have to be found if things start to go wrong .
Offering to give a presentation about your work sounds like a very good idea . I would suggest contacting the professor as soon as possible saying that you would be keen to present your work . By giving them early notice , you give them the chance to either arrange something for you , or to pass your details onto anybody in the wider department who may run the sorts of seminars/colloquiums where such talks often take place . In terms of other things you could do , if they 've already told you that you 'll be introduced to other members of the research team then that sounds like a lot of that will be organised for you . Another thing you may want to consider is to see what other regularly seminars , journal clubs , research groups , etc. already exist that might be of interest to you . If this is somewhere that you may have the opportunity to go and work at then you want to have the fullest sense of what your working environment would be like . As for putting it on your CV , I 'm not entirely sure that a visit is entirely relevant . If it was a visiting job then include it , but something casual like this probably not . It is the sort of thing that may be well worth discussing ( if it 's relevant ) in a cover letter or supporting statement that goes alongside applications .
There is an obvious downside of staying at the same university -- you will only work with one set of advisors and contacts throughout your career . That will mean that you may not benefit from the experience and diversity of viewpoints and philosophies that comes from working with different groups of people across the length of your career . However , if there is a compelling reason to remain at your school , that 's a different situation . This could be financial , personal , or educational . For instance , a family member may have a job that makes it difficult to relocate , or a new project may be starting up that provides a unique educational opportunity . Beyond that , though , I would lean towards going somewhere else for your PhD program !
If the grant is only to reimburse you for your travel expenses ( airfare , lodging , meals , etc ) , then you should be fine with the visa waiver . You are not considered to be employed by the host institution and do not need a work visa . ( Source : Personal experience - I 've been responsible for arranging travel reimbursements for many visa-waiver visitors . ) You will probably need to document your expenses , so save receipts for airfare , lodging , meals , ground transportation , and so on .
As a person who has hired quite a few people in industry , I will simply say that advanced areas ( or even areas that are perceived to be advanced ) often see PhDs being preferable . In this respect I completely agree with Bitwise . I do not , however , agree that you might earn less . Those with sought-after skills get paid well in industry . It is about supply and demand but supply ( people who can do the job ) is not high and demand is growing . Machine-learning is hot in the business literature . That is , managers are becoming well informed about the potentials of machine-learning and they are becoming worried that the only way they can compete for the long-term is by taking advantage of this area . While lower-level programming jobs might not see any benefit from higher qualifications , areas like machine-learning are not seen as lower-level . To answer your main question , are there pitfalls of having a PhD if you want a job in industry ? The answer is no . I am unaware of anyone who has ever thought lower of a job candidate because they have a PhD . Yes , you could get a job without one but for your areas of interest , a PhD will give you lots of advantage when it comes to getting job offers .
You should not take the term " transferring credits " so literally -- nothing is taken away from the ( at that time ) previous university . Instead , you are convincing the new university that you already obtained some parts of the education they are offering ( so that it would be a waste of your and their time to do that again ) , and have the credits to prove it . The new university then awards you the appropriate credits according to their regulations ( which might be more or less than the corresponding ones at your old university ) based on their trust that you could in principle pass the modules again . The credits at your old university remain ( at least for some time ) , should you decide to switch back .
" All other things being equal , " you 'd rather have more references from graduate than undergraduate professors . Your situation is such that " all other things are n't equal . " Apparently , you did n't get to know any of your masters professors well , and only took one course from each . Whereas you had undergraduate professors that you took two to three courses from , and they know you better , and may be in a better position to assess your research potential . Taking the inference a step further , you may have done your most interesting/significant research as an undergraduate , while your master 's work " topped up " your academic knowledge . If that 's the case , you probably ought to " go with what you 've got , " and get more referrals from the ( undergraduate ) professors that you did more work for , or at least got to know better . I would rather have " glowing " recommendations from undergraduate professors than " lukewarm " recommendations from graduate professors . If all else fails , try to take a second course with one of your graduate professors so the s/he can get to know you better , and give you a recommendation .
You do n't mention what field you 're in . At least in the social sciences at my R1 , we look at various factors . The admissions committee knows that people have to choose the college that they went to for various reasons other than just academic excellence . One of the factors that I look at is trajectory . Someone who went to a public high school , then a community college , and then transferred to a public university , with perhaps middling grades the first year but then quickly ramps up to stellar grades by the time they graduate is very interesting to me -- much more than someone who got all As at a good school but does n't seem like they pushed themselves very hard . With the portfolio that you describe for yourself , I 'd say you would n't be eliminated in the first round , but you 'd struggle in the second and third rounds to stand out . How you stand out is up to you . I 'd work on a stellar statement of purpose -- one that strongly articulates why you want to go to graduate school to study what you want to study . Again , this is in the social sciences at my school ( a large private R1 ) , your mileage may vary . Part of this is because brilliance by itself is n't enough for grad school in the social sciences . Perseverance and autonomy and the ability to get knocked down and get back up are also critical .
What is the likelihood of a PhD-holder remaining unemployed ? ... I learnt that even a PhD from a US university is not enough to secure a job . The US National Science Foundation ( NSF ) <URL> on where doctoral graduates in STEM areas ( Science/Technology/Engineering / Mathematics ) end up working . <URL> , wherein the NSF provide statistics on the employment status of all PhD graduates from STEM areas trained in the U.S. Across all of their fields , they count 752,000 relevant graduates , of which they estimate that 651,200 were employed at that time ( 578,700 full-time , 72,400 part-time ) , 11,400 were unemployed and seeking work , 75,900 were retired , and 13,500 were not seeking work . An <URL> is calculated as : = / ( is Unemployment Rate , is number of people UnEmployed , is the number of people in the Labour Force [ working or seeking work ] . ) So for the 752,000 U.S. trained PhD graduates considered , the NSF estimated an unemployment rate of 1.7205 % in 2008 . This is compared with a U.S. unemployment rate of ~ 6 % in mid-2008 . So to return to your question ... What is the likelihood of a PhD-holder remaining unemployed ? More than three times lower than the general population ( for US-trained STEM PhD holders ) . Furthermore , a small percentage of unemployment is inevitable as some percentage of people will always be between jobs for a short time . ( Someone more in tune with economics may be able to comment on whether or not 1.72 % is close to " <URL> " , but being unemployed for > 1.72 % of your career while taking a break between jobs does n't seem unreasonable . ) A more detailed break-down of the total size of the labour force and the unemployment rate per field follows , so if you 're in a STEM area , you can pick whichever field is closest to yours . Caveats : The context is 2008 , US-trained STEM PhDs . Unemployment started increasing in 2008 with the onset of the <URL> . A PhD is just paperwork . What you do for your PhD is far more important than the degree itself . Of course simply being employed is not necessarily the same as having the great job that you always wanted , and certainly we can not infer from these data that doing a PhD is always the best path for everyone to follow their dreams .
It 's actually exactly the opposite : " doctor " is Latin for " teacher " and the title originally had no special connection with medicine . Instead , a doctor was anyone qualified to teach at a university ( in medieval Europe teaching qualifications were typically determined by the church ) . The concept of a formal PhD degree came much later , but it continued this earlier terminology . The confusion in English is irritating , but not problematic enough to make universities give up a 1000 + year old tradition . It 's not clear why this situation arose . One natural explanation is that if you want to emphasize your medical skills , you can do it by explaining that you are not just a healer , but in fact someone qualified to teach other people the healing arts . In other words , you 're a doctor of medicine in the academic sense of the word " doctor " . Until very recently universities were fairly exotic , and most people did n't talk about academic doctors very much , so the medical usage was much more salient for the general public and for most people it became the standard meaning of " doctor " . Of course this difficulty with this story is that it does n't explain why , for example , German does not confuse the terms the same way English does . Maybe it 's just chance , or maybe there 's some cultural reason . In any case , though , academia had the title first and is reluctant to change it .
Papers published in ( reputable ) journals are reviewed by other scientists ( peer review ) , which usually makes it considerably more difficult to publish a paper there . By contrast papers on the ArXiv only receive a brief inspection to keep out utter crap . Thus , most academic evaluations consider only peer-reviewed publications or value them considerably higher . Moreover , often only peer-reviewed papers are considered citable , in particular for purposes of backing up your claims . This may extend to papers that are considered certain to be eventually peer-reviewed  , but this is unlikely to apply to your paper . As being cited ( by peer-reviewed papers ) is another important academic evaluation metric , this is another advantageous aspect of journal publications . As a sidenote : There are a lot of physics journals where you can publish without a fee .  in particular in fast-moving fields or fields with long peer review such as parts of mathematics
end question
start question
How should I cite presentation slides ?
There are two practical purposes to scholarly citations : acknowledging scientific contribution of others , the borrowing of ideas ( mainly ) and content ( sometimes , in the form of quotes ) helping people find relevant content if they want to read it bookkeeping , for scientometric/bibliometric purposes In your particular case , you can not fulfill # 2 and # 3 , because your friend 's slides are not available for others to read , and even if they were , random documents on the internet are not really used for bibliometric purposes . So , you want a solution that will achieve # 1 , i.e. make sure his contributions are recognized by people who will read your slides . To do so , you do n't need to give your citation any specific format . I suggest you simply write , at the bottom of slides you borrowed from him : Slide courtesy of John Doe or Slide modified from John Doe , with permission In addition , you can thank him in your acknowledgements at the end of your talk .
Simply contact artwork 's author ( since the artwork was n't published , the author is copyright holder , otherwise it usually would be the publisher ) , requesting permission to adapt the artwork . I suggest sending the author planned version , so that any potential issues can be assessed and addressed . ( 1 ) I 'd say Yes . The citation is usually located below or above the figure in the following form : ( Adapted from " The DeLone and McLean model of information systems success : A ten-year update . " , by DeLone and McLean , 2003 , Journal of Management Information Systems , 19 ( 4 ) , p. 24 . Copyright 2003 by M.E. Sharpe , Inc. . Adapted with permission . ) . ( 2 ) Since artwork is someone 's intellectual property artifact , protected by copyright , it is usually ( for an exception , see fair use in the next point ) required to cite the artwork ( as any other such artifact ) to properly credit its authors . The format of citation depends on the publication style you 're using ( my example above is based on APA Style ) . ( 3 ) You 're required to get permission , unless you want to risk by using the <URL> legal doctrine . ( 4 ) If the artwork is part of a figure , see example above ; otherwise , other relevant standard citation guidelines for visual elements apply , based on the publication style you use .
When you cite any source , you should give enough that the reader can , at least in principle , read that source for themselves . This information is especially important when you cite something as a source for further information , as it is in your example paper . This paper presents the framework of such a complete phenomenological model _ outlined by Sayeedvafa ( 2002 ) that provides a description of a wide range of the observed behavior , which are both tractable from analytical as well as computational viewpoint . For example , citations of technical reports ( like your first example ) should uniquely identify both the institution and the report , so that the reader knows who and how to ask for a copy . In particular , if the report is available on the web at a stable location , the citation should include a stable URL . If a source is likely to be inaccessible to most readers ( like your second example ) , you should also cite an accessible secondary source that describes the relevant content in detail . ( If you really want to be helpful , the primary source citation should include a pointer like " Cited in [ xxx ] . " ) Otherwise , you 're just asking for the reader 's blind trust that the source has the missing details you claim , or proves the result that you claim , or is as important as you claim , or even exists at all .
I do n't find such citations to citation counts very helpful in reading an article . Assuming such numbers are reasonably accurate , they only represent a snapshot of the popularity of a technique at the time you wrote your article . I would recommend simply saying that it is a popular technique and leaving it at that .
This should be applicable for your problem in <URL> . [ Authors ( if known ) ] . [ Title of the matter ] . Retrieved from [ URL ] . Slides [ start ] - [ end ] . Just keep in mind that the main purpose of citation is to facilitate the reader to be able to refer the materials you 've referred . As long as you show clearly where to look and what to look for , your citation is considered valid . Citation formats are there for uniformity within the bibliography within the concerned journal .
If it 's a textbook-level result , you could just cite a textbook . Otherwise , if you derived it yourself or with colleagues , no citation is required unless you published that proof earlier ( not likely if it 's a minor one ) . But you should definitely thank the people who helped in acknowledgments . Finally , note that there is a threshold for citation : if a result is trivial , and as such is likely to have been independently demonstrated by many people over time , with no clear historical/seminal work , then you do not need to cite it .
Disclaimer : This is mostly from personal experience on the sending side of the process , and a little bit of talking to professors that have actually been on selection committees . As far as I can tell , the two main points for selection of poster vs. presentation are completeness and impact . By completeness I mean whether the work is actually finished or close to finished . If the selection committee can not tell whether work is finished , or knows it is n't , this is grounds to select the work for a poster instead of presentation . The main reason is that a presentation about work that is n't finished will most likely be somewhat boring , because it lacks strong conclusions , whereas at a poster a discussion about the work that is n't finished might actually be much nicer than work that is completely done . Impact is a bit of a vague notion , but in this context it consists of relevance to the audience of the conference and the level of innovation in the work . If work seems to be only relevant for a few people attending the conference the work will most likely be selected for a poster , because the people that are interested can then look up the poster . In case of a presentation the room would be mostly empty , because most people are not interested which is undesired . If the work is highly innovative , instead of a small step forward in a big process , this will most likely interest a lot more people , thus making the work suitable for a presentation . To summarize Finished work with high relevance to the conference audience and preferably large steps forward in the field will be selected for presentation , the opposite case will be selected for a poster or even rejected . Discussion In general you could say that a presentation is more prestigious , because it is sort of a quality stamp . However , the boundary between presentation and poster can shift substantially based on the type of conference , the number of submissions to it and the level of submissions and ( I know , not fair , but they 're only human ) the personal preferences of the selection committee .
Great question ! I found myself in similar situations as a student and likewise as a mentor for other students when talking with people working on similar topics . A favourite quote of mine is from George Bernard Shaw : " If you have an apple and I have an apple and we exchange these apples then you and I will still each have one apple . But if you have an idea and I have an idea and we exchange these ideas , then each of us will have two ideas . " I believe this is an ideal philosophy for research in a sense that ideally , everyone should gain from the free exchange of ideas . However , as you gain experience , you realize that it can be just an ideal . My first experience concerning the cost of openly sharing results was when I was a PhD student . Early on , I had the basics of what seemed like an important result for the community and had some initial results . My supervisor urged me to try and publish but the paper was borderline rejected from the conference with comments like " nice idea but still too early " . I thus published it as a poster in the informal proceedings . In the meanwhile , my supervisor and I had been in conversation about how to progress further , get more results and mature the work . He presented the poster , spoke with various people and told me that he had had lots of interesting conversations : lengthy conversations with two senior researchers in particular . I continued working on the problem . My supervisor and I had some difference of opinion on the direction the work should go in ( theoretical vs. applied CS basically ) . We got bogged down in some theoretical questions where I felt the impact could be on simplifying the problem and working on the applied side . I missed the next deadline for the conference in our area but lo and behold , two papers were published that pretty much had developed the applied side of the idea . I read the two papers and realized that both had , in parallel , at the same venue , developed the ideas I had been working on ... with one or two interesting side observations . Both works were from groups of the two senior researchers my supervisor had talked to . One cited my informal/preliminary results as an inspiration , the other did n't cite it at all . Four years later , the first paper now has 175 citations in Google Scholar , the second paper has 100 , my paper has 41 . I published a later paper on the topic that 's doing a little better , but for sure , the early birds had taken the worm . In part I 'm happy that the idea was developed and they did add new ideas , and I 've worked on various things since , but I honestly still regret not having formally marked the idea further before my supervisor exposed it . I also regret not being more urgent in getting the full work published . This is not to suggest that you should stay tight-lipped at conferences or turn down all collaborations , but if you 're worried about someone entering into competition with you , you might want to listen to that concern . I do n't think it 's at all unreasonable to not share every idea you have when you attend a conference . There are plenty of anecdotes of tight-lipped researchers : <URL> . If you think the person is someone you can trust and someone who could help in a collaboration , listen to your gut . Test the water and see how knowledgeable they are or how they could contribute . Be careful if you have co-authors , not to talk about their ideas . If you want to collaborate , perhaps publish a technical report or a pre-print to mark your ideas first . If in doubt , you do n't have to tell them about your ideas straight away . Maybe stay quiet for the conference and email them later if you think you want to work together or to tell them about your ideas .
It is entirely appropriate to cite notable tools . How to cite , exactly , depends on the origin and nature of the tool . If the software is closely tied to a scientific work , then you should cite both the website and the key associated paper . The website will typically instruct you on the preferred paper to cite . If it is not tied to a paper , just cite the software . Authorship of software typically falls into three cases : A personal creation , by one or a few people : cite those people as authors , e.g. . <URL> is authored by Michael Mateas and Andrew Stern . A organization : cite the organization as author , e.g. , <URL> is by Sun Microsystems . An informally organized open source community : leave author blank or put " X Development Community " , as weight of authorship is unclear and set of authors is constantly in flux .
You 'd have to ask the conference organization . You should try to get somebody to present the work for you , or ( just out of courtesy ) tell them it wo n't be presented ( so they can schedule talks correctly ) . What will happen is up to the conference . Some I 've attended just did not publish papers which were n't presented , others did publish in their proceedings regardless ( you had to pay any attendance fees , at the very least ) . What happens with " selected papers " also varies , one conference I went to selected papers only among those presented , including in their selection the presentation and questions and answers , asking selected authors for a revision based on the above .
check out this blog entry on <URL> or this site on <URL> As you can see there is no definitive answer to you question . Maybe you ask your thesis advisor .
First , some conferences have really strict timing and you will be given no extra time . Second , if there is important slide or two , just do it . But make sure that you only slightly extend your time ( e.g. 10 % ) . If you are going to extend it by 50 % , or 200 % ( I saw that , and I was pissed at both the speaker and even more - the chair for allowing that ) - please , do n't . Side note : as a chair I am an ass . And while I give something like 1 min grace time ( for 15 min talks ) , then after that : speaker : " But there is an important slide afterwards ! " me : " But not as important as other participants ' time . " EDIT : By all means I recommend rehearsing and finishing on , or before , time . I only answer the question - whether to use extra 40 sec for 2 unfinished slides or not . " You should prepare to avoid such situation " is as on-topic as " you should go fishing instead of attending a conference " . ( If the question is " Given X , should I do A or B ? " all legitimate answers should assume " X " , even if it is a suboptimal/nasty/unprofessional / embarrassing situation . )
A quick google " apa cite video " would give you lots of advice , such as <URL> which notes : Last Name , F.M. [ Username ] . ( Year , Month Date ) . Title of video . [ Video File ] . Retrieved from URL .
I think that this can be clarified with a thought experiment . Let 's say that rather than observing a Twitter conversation ( or other social media ) , you were part of a three-way discussion with the two experts in the hallway at a conference . During the course of the conversation , some key facts and sources are mentioned , and this inspires you to look them up . Would you cite the hallway conversation ? Absolutely not . At most , you might mention your source of inspiration in an acknowledgement , if it was particularly important to your work . Likewise , I think that you should feel no obligation to cite a conversation that you observed on Twitter , which is effectively the same thing in an electronic hallway conversation . ( You can , of course , cite Twitter as a primary source , e.g. , if you want to give an example of Twitter conversations , but that does n't seem to be particularly germane to this question ) .
If this section of the thesis contains only the translated passage , then it is silly to use one of the quotation notifiers . As I said in my comment , preface the whole section with a notice about the origin of the passage . Then , present the passage unaltered ( except for the translation ) . The contents of that notice will depend on which of the following categories the original passage falls into : Public domain The original passage is in the public domain ( for example if it was written by a government employee in the course of their normal duties or if the author released into the public domain or if the passage is old enough that any possible copyright has expired ) - then say something like The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) and is reproduced without any further alterations from ( original source ) . This passage is in the public domain ( rationale if possible ) . Fair Use Since a thesis is a document created in the course of obtaining an education , you can claim fair use for educational purposes . The passage represents less than the fair use maximum set for the original document ( typically around 5 % or less of the original work ) , then you can state something like The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) and is reproduced without permission and without any further alterations from ( original source ) . Since this passage represents a minimal part of the original document , it constitutes fair use . Public License The creator of the document could have released the document under a license that allows reuse for non-profit purposes with appropriate attribution . See <URL> and <URL> . Licenses like these generally allow you to reproduce the work if you include the appropriate statement . Make sure the license allows derivative works ( because that is what your translation is ) . The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) . It is reproduced from ( original source ) under the <URL> . The original copyright is held by , and all other rights are reserved by , ( original copyright holder ) . Express permission If you have obtained written permission from the copyright holder to reproduce the work in your thesis , then you would state something like the following . You should include the evidence of written permission in your appendix . The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) . It is reproduced from ( original source ) with permission of the copyright holder . The original copyright is held by , and all other rights are reserved by , ( original copyright holder ) . None of the above Without permission , a license , fair use , or public domain , you are violating copyright by reproducing the passage , even if you translated it ( translations count as derivative works , which are still a no-no ) . Get the appropriate permissions or reduce the length of the passage so that it becomes fair use and see above . US Copyright Note that this answer primarily to <URL> , with which I am most familiar . The copyright laws in other nations , as well as international copyright law , will vary , but many have similar provisions . However , some parts of my answer will be inapplicable in some countries . In these cases , behave as if the material is copyrighted . The concepts of public domain , copyright , and license are fairly similar in most places . Generally , the existence of a license supersedes copyright , with the exception that a license can not supersede the public domain status of a work . Fair use may not exist in all jurisdictions . If you are unsure whether your nation has a fair use or similar exception in its copyright law , act as if it does n't . Better safe than sorry .
Whenever possible , you should try and cite the original source to make sure proper credit is attributed , especially if the original work is not well known enough to constitute " textbook material " . For example , you can probably skip citing Einstein 's original paper on special relativity and cite a newer textbook instead , where current standard notation and more context to the theory is provided . Some times citing the derivative work can add to the discussion in the way of a simplified treatment over the original , further clarifications , notes on implications , and so on . Keep in mind that original work is often obscure , may not yet incorporate terminology or concepts that became mainstream after it was published , etc. . In these cases I would recommend citing both the original and the derivative work . In my own papers I have used sentences such as " ... our treatment is based on the theory presented by Doe and collaborators in their seminal paper [ 1 ] , later reviewed more pedagogically by Smith [ 2 ] . " Some journal editors will ask you to remove citations if they think they are redundant . This usually applies to obvious cases such as " ... according to literature sources [ 1-25 ] . . " , but I guess an occasional picky editor might ask you to remove some of the references even if you 're using them reasonably . In that case you need to judge by yourself if its worth insisting on keeping all the citations . To summarize , when it doubt , I think it 's best to err on the side of inclusion and make sure 1 ) that due credit is given to all the authors that deserve it and 2 ) that previous work you rely on for your study can be traced back following the items provided in the list of references .
With a future event so tenuous , I would recommend against putting it in your CV at all . Even if you think your CV is thin , it will not be improved by putting in an abstract that might or might not get presented and that you have n't even started to prepare .
The practice I 'm most familiar with is that a coauthor is a coauthor is a coauthor . Anyone listed as a coauthor on the title page of the paper should be listed on the title slide of any talk about the paper , and explicitly acknowledged ( " This is joint work with ... " ) when the talk begins . Whether any of your coauthors helped you prepare your slides or the proceedings abstract is none of the audience 's business . But this attitude is clearly specific to my field , where papers only rarely have more than three authors . It might not scale so well in fields ( like particle physics ? ) where a " small " group may have 100 members .
Yes , it 's fine to do that . If you do an introduction on the topic or you are comparing your results/methods to others you can talk about/show their work and you even should do that . Just be careful that you talk enough about your own research and you always make it very clear if something was done by someone else .
You must cite them ! Failure to cite photographs and figures is just as much plagiarism as stealing quotations . To some extent , it is tougher to use pictures from other sources , because you need to make sure you have the permissions to use them . You should add the citation in the caption , as well as the requisite acknowledgments required by the author or publisher .
end question
start question
How can a master thesis in STEM approach the level of a doctoral thesis ?
Requirements vary widely from program to program and from institution to institution . Some programs require a doctoral candidate to publish in a peer-reviewed journal ( probably most programs would take issue if you did n't publish or present anything ) . Most programs ( or committees ) would n't let you graduate with a PhD unless you published at least once , and would expect at least twice . My general hunch is that a doctoral dissertation ( rarely called a " doctoral thesis " ) is generally several times longer . While a masters thesis might be 20-50 pages , dissertations are routinely 80-150 pages ... and sometimes way more ( this varies widely by discipline , by the academic culture of your institution , and by your committee ) . Some programs allow the doctoral candidate to use three publications , combined into a single manuscript , as his or her dissertation . Lastly , the doctoral degree is intended to show that the recipient can perform original research . Masters degrees have a wide variety of understandings or intents , from " the recipient passed our comprehensive exams " , to " the recipient performed an original research project and published it " . Whatever you 've done for your masters thesis , focus on research for your PhD . Learn what interesting questions are in your field and choose one to focus on . Read the background literature to learn how others have approached the problem . Work with your advisor and committee to figure out how you can contribute something new and useful to the field , and then do it . Publish your findings in a journal ; present your results and network with peers at conferences . Finally , write it all up in your dissertation , defend it , and graduate . That sums up getting a PhD . The rest are details . You may find <URL> useful .
Whatever style guide your use , citations should be cited exactly in the original spelling . Doing otherwise would defeat the whole purpose of citation : uniquely identifying an existing publication . I could find no direct quote from APA to justify this ( except that , well , they do n't indicate that you have the liberty to edit the title of cited works ! ) . However , multiple secondary sources make it clear , as <URL> : Notes : Please " copy " the title of a book/an article/whatever ( as far as the spelling of words such as " behavior " / " behavioral " are concerned ) [ ... ] exactly as in the original . Citation style guides tend to be more explicit for foreign language works , where most of them <URL> ( in some wording or another ) : Give the original title , and , in brackets , the English translation
Thesis writers generally have much more freedom to format them as they please . The only real requirement is that it follows any guidelines of the department and institution to which it is submitted , and receives the approval of the writers ' thesis committees . That said , I believe that these days , space should not really be a limiting consideration for a thesis writer . The methods section should be as long as needed to convey the necessary information . In addition , since this is not normally a journal publication , there is much more room to explain things in detail -- which can be very useful for future members of the lab group who might follow up the same project .
Things can be different in the humanities , but English is the language of science and , in a STEM field , you can reasonably expect whoever will read your CV to be able to understand the titles of your works ( if they are in English ) . However , if , as a courtesy to the reader , you wish to translate the titles anyway , do n't eliminate the original titles , but put the two versions side-by-side . Your last point is more critical : leave the names of the university and the qualification as-is per link 1 , or put in parentheses the French name equivalent of my prior qualification ? The name of the university should be absolutely left as-is , unless the university itself does not provide an official French translation , which I doubt ( on the other side , universities from non-English speaking countries sometimes issue statements about official English translations of their names or department names ) . It 's not always easy to find equivalences among qualifications in different countries , and it 's almost impossible for grades . Thus , if you want to provide a translation , leave the original qualifications and grades too , so that the application committee can employ their equivalence rules , if they have any .
Is this OK or is there some convention that says you have to have the same numbering depth in your table of contents and text ? There is no general convention against this , but your supervisor or university may hold dogmatic views on it , so you have ask them or read their regulations , respectively . That being said , the question whether it 's a good idea can usually be answered best if you consider the purpose of the respective elements : The purpose of the table of contents is to allow the reader to quickly find a specific part of your text and to give a rough overview over your structure . You do not need a certain subsubsection or similar in your table of contents , if both : it is safe to assume that everybody who is looking for the contents of some subsubsection or similar will find them as well if it is not explicitly listed in the table of contents ; the subsubsection is not essential to your thesis ' structure ( which is very likely ) . Actually , I think that many theses do not need a table of contents that goes beyond the first level . The purpose of having subsubsections ( and similar ) is to structure your text and to be able to have precise references within the text ( e.g. , " see Sec . 4.3.2 " ) . Thus a subsubsection is not needed , if both : You do not specifically reference it . It does not help the reader to see how your content is structured .
Yes . The literature is full of papers whose primary contribution is using a different method - either something more advanced , or with a different set of assumptions , etc. to analyze a frequently examined question . There 's no reason why that would n't be a perfectly acceptable Masters paper in my mind . However , a couple points to consider for yourself : Why is everyone using the same technique ( if indeed it is everyone ) . Is it really just because it 's the standard analytical framework for looking at this type of question , or is there a stronger reason driving the choice of technique ? " i really can not compare these two methods as they are based on totally different assumption and technique . " I do n't think I 've ever encountered a situation where two methods are utterly incomparable . While they might have different assumptions and techniques , surely they both give answers which can be compared ? Even if they ca n't be compared quantitatively , surely there is a qualitative decision one might make based on the answers that could be compared ( i.e. if I use Method A , X should be done , whereas if I use Method B , Y should be done ... ) ?
In anthropology , it 's pretty common to use local terms in both the title and subtitle . Almost everyone romanizes the terms rather than using the native script . And they leave explanations and glosses to the body of the dissertation itself . That being said , when it comes time to submit to a book publisher , they 're more hesitant about local terms in titles . The issue is that they are legible only to people who already know the local language or culture , so you 've automatically limited the appeal of your book . But there have been some notable exceptions : Travesti : Sex , Gender , and Culture Among Brazilian Transgendered Prostitutes Toms and Dees : Transgender Identity and Female Same-Sex Relationships in Thailand The Soul of Anime : Collaborative Creativity and Japan 's Media Success Story In the examples above , the exceptions prove the rule by either being obvious to English speakers ( " travesti " = ? transvestite ? ) , close to English ( " Tom " is obvious , " Dee " adds an element of curiousity ) , or already a loan word in English ( " anime " ) .
It sounds as though your major contribution to expanding the extent of human knowledge is in showing how the new technique can be used to confirm results ( X ) which were obtained by the old technique . So when defending your thesis , you better be very sure that you show how this new technique enhances our understanding of X !! If you are unsure how to best present this , talk to your advisor . In fact , even if you believe you know how best to present your contribution , talk to your advisor ! Take advantage of his/her experience and knowledge of the field to position yourself where your contribution can make the greatest possible impact . You need to prove that you have expanded human knowledge , so focus on how this is better than the old technique , not on how you have gotten exactly the same results . Again , your advisor should best be able to show you how to do this .
Images in a thesis should be of the same quality as images in a peer-reviewed publication . Hand drawn circles and arrows are not formal enough . Circles and arrows drawn with programs like TeX , GIMP , Illustrator , or Powerpoint are formal enough .
The acknowledgements section is really yours to do with as you wish . You can thank anybody who has been of help and support to you , no matter how formal or informal your relationship with them is . You can make the relationship explicit or not , however you prefer . Thus , for example , it is equally valid to write : Thank you to Jane Smith , for all her love and support or Thank you to my girlfriend Jane Smith , for all her love and support
The posing of " open " questions is quite common in doctoral dissertations , usually in the final " conclusions and outlook " section . However , your situation is a bit different , in that you have an actual project that is designed to address these questions , but the study is too long for you to wait to include the results in your PhD thesis . Given this , I would basically do what you 've said : introduce the basics of the case study you 've designed , what it 's designed to do , and so on . You just wo n't be able to present the actual results of the experiments . If this is clearly communicated to your committee by both you and your advisor , then this should n't be a major problem .
Yes . It is certainly okay . Indeed , general practice when writing a PhD thesis is to produce a number of publications that add up to the thesis , whether directly ( using staples ) or by a good deal of massage . Some published material may be omitted and some additional material may be included . There 's no reason why this should n't apply to a Master 's thesis , too . It is a good idea to cite the paper in the thesis ( if the paper has been accepted for publication ) and the thesis in the paper , if possible .
I am sure this may vary but this is standard procedure for our theses since they are based on papers . A student will typically have about four papers/manuscripts in their thesis ranging from published through all stages of revision in a journal to not yet submitted manuscripts . You will need to check with your local guidelines what is expected from a thesis to figure out the details but it would seem difficult to demand all published papers unless the period to complete a PhD is open ended .
You can thank whomever you want in the acknowledgments of your thesis , but there may be consequences that you have to live with . In my opinion it is a bad idea to admit to illegal activity in a formal document like this . Once you write that , you can not unwrite it : it will be archived for the rest of your career . I do n't really think you 'd get in any trouble directly , but by doing so you 're advertising the fact that you are willing to break rules that you do n't like and do so entirely openly . I think that a lot of potential employers prefer employees who when they break the rules for a good reason , do so more quietly . I also do n't really see what you 're gaining by doing this . A thesis acknowledgment is not a step toward legal free downloading of texts . I happen to agree with you that " a way to make them legal should be found " . One way I work towards this is that I make all of my lecture notes -- some of which are very close to being textbooks -- freely available on the internet . Whenever I have spoken with publishing companies , I mention at the first meeting my requirement that my material be made freely available on the internet . To my surprise , they have not walked out of the room . I also have largely stopped assigning expensive required texts . In summary : an acknowledgment to the providers of illegal content is a microscopic flouting of the establishment , not a helpful act . I recommend that you think a bit more carefully about what you can do to actually improve the situation .
In general I think this is a good idea , but it might depend on your area . This way others can verify your method and compare it to yours . At least this is how it is used in for example Computer Vision and Machine Learning . Some examples : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Some theses with a dataset published : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> from the Open University UK , wrote in <URL> ( for a PhD in the computing subject ) : Some value in a PhD thesis is drawn from careful experimental design . It is best practice to only change one parameter at a time ; to use datasets that are publicly available or at least make datasets available ; to describe experiments in a way so that they are reproducible ; and , particularly in Computing , to set up experiments in an automated batch fashion . You however have to make sure that you are allowed to ( re ) publish the data on your web without violating any copyrights ( even if it can be downloaded for free ) , otherwise you can just link to the external data set . Edit : also see <URL> about <URL> .
One of the general prerequisites in this day and age for a faculty appointment is an earned ( as opposed to honorary ) PhD from a ( typically accredited ) degree-granting institution . Consequently , asking to see either a PhD thesis , a transcript , or the degree certificate is would be ways of ascertaining that you do , in fact , have a valid degree . This by no means implies that only your PhD matters in the hiring process ; just that it 's part of the process to ensure you 're eligible . I would n't read too much into this beyond that .
One of the wonderful things about your thesis is that it is one of the few documents that there is very little constraint on how you are allowed to arrange it . Once you have satisfied the university 's formal requirements ( of which there are often few ) , it is up to you ( with , of course , the consent of your advisor ) . So arrange things however you feel makes the most clear and accessible presentation , and it will be OK .
I believe that a sandwich thesis ( sometimes called an integrated thesis / stapler thesis ) consists of a collection of published or in-press articles ( some schools also allow submitted articles ) . These articles are included in the thesis verbatim . The publications are usually preceded by an elaborate introduction that sets the context for the thesis . EDIT : As Willie Wong pointed out , there is also usually a final discussion / conclusion after the integrated papers .
In some cases it might mean that the thesis could be published as a book . However , I 'd generally interpret the phrase to mean that the thesis could readily be adapted and published as one or more journal articles .
Yes , you are able to reference their work in your text , as long as you make clear in the bibliography what type of document ( master thesis , PhD thesis , Institution ) it is . However , i would not consider it to be ideal if your work critically depends on such references in the sense that a central assumption or starting point in your thesis breaks down if the reference provides false or incomplete results . Particularly in the case of master theses / dissertations it is not generally clear whether and to which extent they are peer-reviewed and what their overall trustworthiness is . With ( accepted ! ) PhD theses things are better , as these normally go through a review process . Furthermore , for PhD theses i would expect that their main points have been published somewhere ( conference or journal ) and then you clearly should prefer these publications .
end question
start question
How important is it for the corresponding author to be known in the field he/she is going to publish ?
Getting a paper accepted for publication in a normal journal is a matter of credibility : you must be able to convince the peer reviewers that the content of your paper is both true and novel . Very high status journals such as Nature or Science work somewhat differently : there you can not reach the peer reviewers until you first convince the editor that your work is " important " and " broadly interesting " enough to consider , which is a somewhat arbitrary process . Let us consider only normal journals , however , where the bulk of all publication takes place : they still have an editorial filter , but it is generally only to ensure a submission is at least vaguely on-topic , not plagiarized , and basically sane . These are pretty low bars to pass , though they are definitely affected by being known . If I see a paper that has come out with a well-known PI as author and that looks like a logical extension on their prior work , I 'm unlikely to scrutinize carefully for being on-topic or sanity : it would be such a blow to the reputation of the PI to misbehave there that I am comfortable to take the small risk that the reviewers might get annoyed because the paper turns out to actually be crazy or off-topic . Not being known wo n't generally hurt an author here , it will just mean their paper is more likely to actually get checked for topic and sanity , rather than simply trusted . The peer reviewers are another matter . Peer review is a very noisy process , and even when double-blinding is used , it is often possible to have a good idea when a well-known person is involved based on the methods that they are using . Most peer reviewers are conscientious and try to do a good and neutral job , but a ( frustrating ) minority are <URL> . Even for those who are trying to do a good job are human and thus are subject to same standard cognitive flaws we all are , like <URL> . All of this means that an unknown 's credibility will likely be assessed differently than a person who is well-known as a good and careful researcher . The unknown person will generally either have to present stronger evidence to be believed or will have the evidence that they do present scrutinized more carefully . That unknown will actually be better off , though , than a well-known person who has a history of sloppy or controversial work , who will typically have an even harder time convincing peer reviewers . Do not draw the wrong lesson from this , however : a person most certainly can publish well as an unknown , early in their career , without relying on the name recognition of co-authors . Many of us do exactly that . It 's just going to be somewhat harder than after one has already established a reputation as a careful and productive researcher . Final note : if you ever find yourself saying " They only rejected my paper because I 'm not [ well-known / popular / one of the cool kids / etc ] " then you are probably wrong and engaging in sour grapes kvetching . If they rejected your paper , then you should also have been provided with clear information about what types of evidence would improve your ability to get accepted . Do that instead .
No , you should not put the university logo in the letter . You are not representing your university in an official capacity in a statement of purpose , and therefore using the university 's logo would be inappropriate , as you would be suggesting an official imprimatur for your work .
When I look at an application there are four aspects that count : grades cover letter earlier written work ( BS/MS thesis ) Recommendation letters Out of these , I focus most of my attention on the latter two : if the thesis is well-written , has received a good grade , and the letters of recommendation support the candidate in terms of ability to do research ( from reading up on the field to writing everything up ) and independence ( how much ( or little ) support the candidate needed . The cover letter would not make the application , but could break it if it is unfocussed and does not show any skills in expressing the interest in a structured way while avoiding irrelevant information . The grades would , in most cases , be the least interesting since they primarily show one 's ability to read and understand , not necessarily reasoning and deduction . The exception is the grade for the thesis . So , to answer the question , I am not sure which might be more important but anything that supports your ability to do research is of prime interest to anyone evaluating an application . EDIT : To follow up on Gerrit 's suggestion , my personal ranking list would be ( in falling order ) : Earlier written work Recommendation letters Cover letter Grades ( although the grade on the written work is included in 1 ) But , all parts are useful and in the end some mix of all will be used . I would also add that 1 and 2 will " make " the application while 3 and 4 will mainly help to " break " the application .
How common is it to inadvertently publish a finding that was already discovered ? Far more common than anyone realizes or wants to admit . <URL> states that No scientific discovery is named after its original discoverer . ( Stigler 's law was proposed in this precise form in 1980 by Stephen Stigler , who self-referentially attributed it to Richard Merton , but of course similar statements were made earlier by many others , including Stigler 's own father . ) I would n't go as far as claiming that every scientific discovery is misattributed , but there are hundreds of examples . Off the top of my head : Fibonacci numbers , Pascal 's triangle , Gaussian elimination , Euler 's formula ( both of them ! ) , Voronoi diagrams , Markov 's inequality , Chebyshev 's inequality , Dijkstra 's algorithm for shortest paths , Prim 's algorithm for minimum spanning trees , the Cooley-Tukey FFT algorithm , the Gale-Shapley stable matching algorithm ( for which Shapley recently won the Nobel Prize in economics ) , ... What do you when you happen to find yourself in this situation ? Be brutally honest , both with yourself and with the scientific community . If your work has already been published , post a reference to the prior art in your web page listing your publications . ( You do have a web page listing your publications , do n't you ? ) If possible , publish an addendum to your paper . Email anyone who has cited your paper already , giving them the earlier reference . When asked to review papers that cite your paper , include the earlier reference in your report . Become a walking advertisement for the earlier work . If your work has n't already been published , try to figure out which parts of your work have actually been done before . Some of your results will appear verbatim in the earlier work , so you ca n't take credit for them . Some of your results will be easy corollaries of the earlier work , so you still ca n't take credit for them . But perhaps some of your results will take the old work in a new nontrivial direction . Build on that . Also , if your results were previously known in a different field , there may be some value in bringing those results to the attention of your research community . Should you just scrap your work if your methods are too similar to someone else 's ? Of course not ! Now you have evidence that your methods actually work ! Push them further !
Assuming that you 're not in a field where it 's " strictly alphabetical order " ( like economics ) , the question of which position is more important depends on what stage of your career you 're in . If you are a beginning academic -- a PhD student or a postdoctoral fellow -- then the first-author publications are most important , as these will show you taking an active and leading role in your research . As you move up the chain , however , and reach more senior positions , having the last-author credit becomes more important , as now you 're showing your leadership role in directing projects . You do n't want to be stuck in the trap of being a " junior " partner in research collaborations , with the senior PI getting all of the credit for the work .
In my opinion , the simplest and quickest ( but not necessarily the most optimal ) solution would be to rank those frameworks [ A , B , ... ] by your favorite criteria ( i.e. , importance , fit to my research career goals/interests , fit to my department 's research interests , etc. ) and then perform bibliometric search within the IEEE journals scope , using one or more of your top-ranked frameworks as keywords . The resulting list of journals would be pretty relevant to your paper as well as to your most important criteria .
The short answer , at least in theoretical computer science , is yes . Especially pre-tenure . The Coin of the Realm in academia is fame . Hiring and promotion decisions are based primarily on the perceptions of your impact by leaders in the research community . Those intellectual leaders must know who you are , they must know what you do , and they must think that what you do is excellent . This is precisely why it 's so important to network , network , network -- go to conferences , visit other departments , talk to visitors , ask questions , answer questions , go to lunch , drink beer , play pool/golf/frisbee / Settlers of Catan , race go-karts , exchange business cards , all that stuff . Having a visible online presence is just another form of networking . Similarly , if you want to attract good students , they have to know who you are , they have to know what you do , and they have to think what you do is interesting . Similarly , if your work is not freely and easily accessible on the web , it is much less likely to be cited than freely accessible work of comparable quality . To give some personal examples , I have good reason to believe that <URL> were a significant factor in my academic job search and even my tenure case , and <URL> definitely helped me get promoted . I expect that <URL> similarly helped Suresh , and <URL> similarly helped David .
The question , although reasonable , seems hard to answer in general terms . Programmatic change is generally not done by individual faculty members in a department , but by groups and/or committees of them , in confluence with the department Chair/Head . Many programmatic changes do not " go through " the Dean -- in particular " day to day " business usually does not -- but those involving nontrivial financial changes usually do . For all but the smallest colleges it is rare for individual faculty members other than the Head to have substantive conversations with the Dean about such things : again , it would be better if they went through the department as a whole and/or the Head . When it comes to financial outlays that must be approved by the Dean : I 've seen plenty of instances where the Dean approves but " just does n't have the money , " so I would have to think that even mild disapproval of the initiative would sink it pretty thoroughly . Perhaps the most useful thing I can say is : look at where the program is now and look at where it was in the recent past . If you are really unhappy with the current position or the perceived trajectory of the department , then you should not count on being happy with it in the future ( no matter who the Dean is ) . Conversely , if those look reasonably good to you , talk with the faculty and see how they feel about the future . If there 's some important change coming around the bend , I hope they will let you know . But it is more likely that being in the department for the next ten years or so will be roughly like having been in the department for the last ten years or so . The Dean does not reside in the department , so unless s/he is actively at war with the members and interests of the department , some disagreement in the overall vision need not affect the actual working life of a professor in the department unduly . By the way , the bit about the Dean " may leave in the next 5 years " sounds way too vague to take seriously . Maybe s/he will and maybe s/he wo n't . If s/he does , maybe the next Dean will be better or maybe worse . It is very hard to plan for the future with regard to this kind of thing : honestly , I probably would n't even try .
First to answer your titular question : What is a TA called when he/she is in charge of organization ? Such a position does ( in theory ) not exist , as a TA as by definition supposed to " assist " somebody else and not run the show on her/his own ( I am aware that this is not how it sometimes works in practice ) . Generally , you need to keep in mind that title and scope of academic positions , especially regarding teaching , are quite different between US and Germany , so you will likely not be able to do an accurate 1-to-1 mapping . I would write " Wissenschaftlicher Mitarbeiter " in the CV and explain what you actually did . Translating it to english is prone to confusion . If you write TA , people will underestimate your responsibility in the course , if you write something like lecturer , people may infer that you already had a faculty position and will be confused by the perceived mismatch with the rest of your CV .
For typical journals , you do n't actually have to implement all the reviewer 's suggestions to get the paper published . After all , it 's not like the reviewer necessarily knows better than you do what is going to make your paper publishable . ( If multiple reviewers all make the same suggestion , that 's a different story . ) If you have a good reason not to do something suggested by a reviewer , you can not do it and point out in your response to the editor why you made that decision . The important thing is to make it clear that you did n't simply decide to ignore part of the reviewer 's report . If you 're going to avoid implementing any of their recommendations , you do need to justify it . It then falls to the editor to decide whether the paper is still publishable without that particular suggestion being implemented . I 'd add that saying that an addition to the paper would be too large and would justify an entire followup study on its own is a valid response . Even a reasonably common one , I would think . Reviewers have n't done the research themselves ; they do n't know how much work an extension would take , and if you say it would be too involved , there 's a pretty good chance the editor believes that you know better than the reviewer on that point .
It 's not rude , but the professor might want to adjust the assignments later on , in which case he/she wo n't be able to satisfy your request . So go ahead making the request simply being honest in the wordings , but be prepared to be denied .
I think the main question is a false dichotomy . Most students do n't have a choice between either doing research over the summer or doing it during the year . As long as it does n't interfere with your grades or other activities , more research is always a good thing , no matter when it happens . That said , in my experience you should simply have a conversation with your professor ( or direct supervisor , who will often be a grad student or post-doc ) about time commitment and expectations . No one expects you to do the same amount of work in 10-15 hrs/week that you might do in 30 hrs/week , and no one expects you to work full-time while taking a full course load . As with many things in life , just make sure to communicate about expectations .
I agree with you and shan23 , it does n't really matter , but the newer is probably better . Well , to be bluntly honest , I tend to have a negative a-priori when I see an author of a paper with a gmail address ( especially when I review it , when it 's not double-blind ) . I know it 's stupid , because it should only be about the quality of the work , but I ca n't really help it . Mostly because I know that there is no authentication with gmail address ( I potentially could get an alan.turing@gmail.com address ) . I think it 's ok to give an address that will change , after all , few people spend their entire career in the same institution .
There 's no problem at all with a student being the principal author ( in the sense of " being in charge of the writing " ) of an academic paper . In fact , I think it 's very good that you consider doing so . Here are , however , some thoughts on the matter : Discuss this with your advisor before writing anything . Once both of you have established that there is sufficient matter for publication , and that you want to publish it , you should make plans for doing so . It includes determining ( right now ! ) the authors list , the order of authors on the list , and plan who will do what . The corresponding author ( or corresponding authors ) , often indicated by an asterisk in the authors list and their contact details in a footnote , do not necessarily need to be the person ( s ) who actually did most of the writing . The contact author is the one who is the most central to the project , and who will be able to deal with correspondence about it in the near and not-so-near future . For that reason , some groups ( including mine ) do not consider students a good choice for corresponding author : in two years , they may be gone to a new job and not interested any more with the paper 's research . A few more comments for first time authors : If you 've never written a paper before , do n't underestimate the task . Writing a paper from A to Z is a complex project , even for experienced authors . It requires using many different skills , and is truly an exercise in both scientific reasoning and communication , with very specific constraints ( style , formatting , length limits , ... ) . Assign a lot of time to writing , and do n't hesitate to get help if you 're stuck ! If in doubt while writing , put yourself in the reader 's shoes . And specifically , a non-specialist reader 's shoes . That should be the guiding principle .
This really depends on what kind of U-turn you want to make and what kind of additional resources you avail yourself of . In this day and age , because we have access to so many resources ( from university extension courses to online classes to self study via Youtube and the WWW ) , a dedicated student can build their skills in a field not necessarily related to their undergraduate degree . That said , it depends what kind of U-turn you want to make . To pick up your example , if you have a BA in Art History and you want to get an MS in Physics , I doubt that any serious program is going to let you waltz right in . However , if you took a series of courses through a university extension program , or , perhaps , even online , that covered the terrain of an undergraduate physics program -- and if you also demonstrated your competence and interest in the field through an independent research program , you would probably be able to find a program somewhere . On the other hand , if you have a BS is a technical field and you want to get an MA , programs are usually more accommodating . In my field ( politics and policy ) , students with an undergraduate BS can often add substantial value because they have an in-depth understanding of math and programming that allows them to gain more traction when analyzing research questions using quantitative methods . In either case , it will greatly improve your chances of admission if you can articulate why you want to make the U-turn and also explain how your particular path adds value to the program you are applying to . If you find a school and a program that excites you , try contacting some of the professors at the program and see if you can meet or talk with them . During the conversation , you can make the case why you want to move into their field and ask them how you can best prepare yourself . " This above all ; to thine own self be true " -- W. Shakespeare
" Trivial " often means " too simple to be a real problem " . For example , in an class on optimisation methods years ago , the lecturer said " for our first example , we 're going to study the problem of maximising the number of ones in a binary string of length n " . My thought for most of the class was " well , that 's bloody obvious -- you just write n ones in a row -- why are we looking at this " . I eventually realised that it was being used because it made it easy to describe how the algorithms worked , not because it was a challenging problem in any way . I think that 's a good example of where the word " trivial " is good shorthand -- the problem is n't of any importance , but it is being used to illustrate a point . This is similar to how trivial is used in a lot of pure mathematics , where it often means " the simplest example that satisfies the definition " ( like " the trivial group " ) . As with all such jargon , though , it is worth explaining to students what you are going to be meaning by the word " trivial " and why trivial examples are worth looking at at all .
In essence there is no problem , here in the UK , for the lecturers/professors to join societies . I experienced it first hand , both as a student and lecturer , and loved it . But you have the following ethical responsibilities : Socializing and Not Dating : Most social clubs go out a lot . For example , they might go to some other part of the country to do hill walking , or pub crawling which involves loads of drinking . The bottom line is that you can socialize with students , but do n't lose your mind and start dating a student while camping somewhere . Some social clubs are hubs for dating , so join them for the cause and socializing , and avoid dating altogether . Close Friendships : Here in the UK , in my experience at least , some students are looking for an easy way out of studying . They are young , and therefore they just want to get by . Do n't create a situation where they can take advantage of you and abuse your friendship . Overall , know your limitations . Deal with students outside the university in a respectable manner , and do n't get too comfortable . At the end of the day , you are the lecturer and they are the students .
That is totally fine , many people do a master thesis in an official cooperation with a company . University has n't hired you for your studies , and the diploma is not your " payment " . Who might be in trouble is your professor and his company , if he has n't cleared this with the university officials . Because he has a contract with the university , and they have some rights to your results , because they provided the lab , provided your professor , etc. .
There is probably not a single truth here but I would make the following statements : Having a good publication record is the basis for basically everything in academia . The question is then what is good ? As a fresh PhD student citations will be near zero ( I am guessing in most fields ) . Having publications in citation index listed journals is therefore a definite plus . Having several as first author is a must ( see <URL> for a discussion ) I would also argue that having papers not part of the PhD ( even if not first authored author ) is a plus since it indicates activity . As a new post-graduate you need to improve the publication record as best you can . You need to show that you do your own new work but also be part of collaborations in some mix . Building a publication record takes time and will partly be up to your own efforts and in some way also by chance ( you never know what opportunities lie ahead ) . To get employed , you can basically only compete with a good publication list . Everyone knows this takes time and I am guessing all fields have their own " standards " as to what is a reasonable publication rate . In my field where papers are based on field investigations , 2-4 papers per year is considered acceptable , the longer-term average should be towards 3-5 . The rate is thus an aspect that should not be over-looked . Typically you will have a dip post-PhD because it takes time to build or get into a new environment and to start writing new papers . Having something on the back burner for that period may thus be useful to bridge the gap . As a final note , the citations will be more and more important after a few years . In my field it usually takes a few years to start getting citations because the results will inspire someone to apply for money , go into the field for new investigations , and then write papers . In a lab or theoretical environment such response times may be lower so check with seniors in your field what applies . A good question to ask is perhaps if there are ways to promote ones work to increase citation records , I do not have the answer to that question . Bottom line : publish in as good journals as possible . Good quality counts but a reasonable publication rate is also necessary . Citations will come with time .
I 'm honestly surprised at the question . " Primary " does not mean " only " ! If it 's a good paper , then of course you should publish it . Aside from the obvious personal benefits of making you look more diverse , increasing your visibility in another field , and possibly possibly creating opportunities for future collaboration , you 're doing what research is for : expanding human knowledge . And if it 's not a good paper , then of course you should n't publish it , even if it is in your primary field . But to echo shan23 's comment : Do n't use grants in area X to fund research in area Y.
end question
start question
How to explain why I want to go to a summer school ?
To answer both questions of " what to write " and " why they ask for this , " I will quote an <URL> from @badroit to a related question ( which deals with writing a research statement ) : You 're trying to demonstrate why you and your background are a good fit for a summer school and that you will benefit greatly from that school . The general idea is the same for writing a " why I want to attend " statement : you want to show the organizers of the summer school that they wo n't be wasting their time and other resources on you . So , the two things you 'll want to make sure your answer conveys are : That you are genuinely enthusiastic about the topic . Explaining ( as you suggest ) that the relationship between biology and mathematics is something you are very curious about/interested in is a perfectly reasonable thing to write . You could also mention related coursework or projects you have undertaken , to further demonstrate your interest in this area . That you will benefit from the summer school . Discuss relevant goals that you think this school will help you achieve ; for example , your intent to take graduate-level courses in the subject as a senior , to pursue independent study/research in this area , to go on to graduate studies in biomathematics , etc. . Finally , if there is a professor in a related area with whom you have some relationship ( e.g. , you took his/her class ) , you can ask them to review your summer school application before you send it in . This has the double benefit of ( 1 ) getting expert help with your application , and ( 2 ) cultivating a relationship with faculty in your field of interest .
Yes , you should . Whether this is common depends very much on the conference . The last time I was at a conference , I was invited out of the blue by someone I did n't know to chair a session , in a <URL> and very informal e-mail as if it was coming from a long time friend in a hurry . This was less than a year after I obtained my PhD . A PhD student in our research group did the same . All it means , really , is that you sit on a chair in front of the room , make sure the presentations are on the presentation computer , announce the speakers , etc. . You will get detailed instructions . Unless you mess up ( and why would you ? ) , you really have nothing to lose .
It sounds like he 's asking you to wait because you 're his plan B , not his plan A . In other words , he may be afraid that his favorite candidate backs out , and he 's keeping you in the wings just in case that happens . So should you push the issue ? No , not unless you have other offers . And if your other pending applications have n't been responded to yet , it 's in your best interest to wait until those other decisions come back to you .
It depends on the program , but if no requirement is set , I would go for about 500 words . That 's about two pages double-spaced . You want to be to the point in these essays . Too much rambling may turn the reader off . I never turn anything in single-space . Double-spaced documents help for readability . It 's up to you , but I suggest double-spacing .
Unless it is the fact that paper A quotes paper B that you intend to highlight in your thesis and not the content of the quote from paper B itself , you need to read paper B . If you reproduce the quote by itself , you should cite the original . If you need to refer to paper A 's reference to B , then you need to cite both .
I 'm in Australia , and from my experience , almost every unit is evaluated every semester that it runs in pretty much all Australian universities . There might be a few exceptions , but this is just standard practice . The standard survey consists of a bunch of closed ended questions and then some open ended questions for more qualitative feedback . From this perspective , there 's nothing special about whether the instructor is a famous professor or a relatively unknown academic . Student evaluations are just a standard component of university life . It would be strange to make an exception , just because the professor is famous . More generally , student evaluations serve a wide range of purposes and the relevance of most would not change whether or not the instructor is a famous professor . Such evaluations give the instructor feedback about how the unit was received by students . It can highlight areas for improvement . From a university perspective , it creates some accountability and some metrics that can be monitored . Of course , there are also plenty of issues with student evaluations . And there is the potential if they are used inappropriately that they can create perverse incentives for instructors : e.g. , simplifying education , grade inflation , and so on in order to have " happier students " . But that 's another issue .
Ask . That is , send a polite email inquiring if there is any news . There 's a possibility that the decisions have simply not been made yet - the organizers of the summer school , just like the rest of us , are busy and bad at keeping to deadlines - but it 's still okay to ask ( politely ) .
I wonder if anything I say against my supervisor or my experience will worsen my future studies ( and relationship ) with my professor until I graduate . It could , and this depends on many factors ( including the character of this professor , his relationship with your supervisor , your character and how you explain things etc. . . ) , I do n't think anyone can predict whether or not it actually will . I recommend first considering what you hope to achieve in discussing this with the head of the department ( aka president/professor ) . I can imagine a couple of possibilities : You feel the need to unload and feel some sympathy . You care about the system and hope this can be avoided for future students . If it is mainly the first , I strongly suggest talking to a friend over a beer instead . You 'll avoid the risk , and also wo n't essentially waste your professor 's time ( which would probably negatively affect his impression of you ) . If your motivation is the second , I think this is quite a noble and selfless thing to do , showing high integrity , but it does put yourself at quite a bit of risk with essentially no gain ( it helps future students , but if I understand correctly , not you ) . If this is your goal , I urge you to first consider whether you think this professor would actually care about the advice of an undergrad ( I have known professors who would appreciate it , but also some who would simply consider the student to be complaining , in which case relations with that professor would indeed worsen ) . If you think he will , then I suggest the following : Before speaking to your professor , make sure you can present the situation clearly , as objectively as possible and concisely ( the longer you speak , the more it sounds like a rant and you lose interest - also professors tend to be very busy , and thus have low attention spans for issues that do n't seem important ) . Be very clear straight off the bat that you understand and agree that what has already happened has happened and nothing can/will be done for you , and your intent is solely to raise awareness of the issue so that it can be avoided in the future . Possibly put this intent in writing when contacting the professor for the meeting ( again , as short as possible ) . In the end , taking action here will involve risk , regardless of your intentions . You will have to weigh how much you care about the issue , and what chances you think you have .
Erasmus program is evaluated in sense that you are capable of living and working in new surrounding and that you can integrate easily and adapt faster to school system of given country ( host university ) . This mean that your advantage in overcoming so called " cultural shock " and that you will not spent you MSc with loosing your time and nerves in adapting . but EP is not crucial and never been , many students that I know , enrolled in MSc without Erasmus experience , If you want to pursue research oriented program ( which I highly doubt it exist in EU as a part of international MSc program , excluding UK ) then Summer research program is desirable . I need to warn you , that quality of that research program and advisor on host institution needs to be appropriate . As someone who been on both , erasmus and sumer research , I benefited more from summer research program , but I can thank to my advisor on that institution , also there are many examples where students found out that erasmus were more valuable experience than SRP , they felt like lab technicians during SRP . This you should avoid . Contact and inform well before going to that institution . I guess it is individual experience and each department or university that are in programs are not valued the same .
I 've heard from people that generally , it 's a bad idea to go to the same school as your undergrad to get your graduate education . The word " generally " is commonly used in two rather different senses . The first sense is " typically " , " most often " . The second sense -- perhaps more common in mathematical and scientific writing -- is " always " , or " in the largest possible scope which might be applied " . The quoted advice is valid if " generally " is construed in the former sense , not the latter . To briefly explain : on the one hand , there are advantages to acquiring a diversity of experience . " Great University X " will do its business in a way which is slightly different from " Great University Y " . Experiencing this is very valuable , because if you stay in academia you will probably be affiliated with several more universities , different from each of these . If all of your student experience is at a single place , you will have subconsciously internalized the universality of your experience , and you 'll be in for a rude awakening when you learn that what is obviously best to you is not the practice in your new environment . Then too , by going to different great universities , you meet different great people ( many of whom will know each other and will be in transit to/from other great universities ) , both students and faculty . This is also very valuable . On the other hand , there are situations where it is most advantageous to stay where you are . For instance there are sometimes personal , family or financial considerations . Even neglecting these , there are times that the university you attended as an undergraduate is truly the uniquely best option for you to continue your studies , or the best option among those available to you . If you are an undergraduate at UCLA , if you want to study analysis , and if you did not get admitted to Berkeley , MIT , Chicago , Princeton or Stanford , then staying where you are sounds like an excellent ( perhaps optimal ) choice academically . If you 've already done successful research with a top faculty member at your current program and you truly want to continue that research most of all : yes , think seriously about staying right where you are . The other answer says that graduate school rankings is " a little ridiculous " . While I do n't really disagree , let me try to put a finer point on that : grad school rankings are ridiculous if you take them too seriously , and especially if you regard them as a strict linear ranking . It does not matter that US News and World Report currently thinks that MIT is the best mathematics department in the US whereas in past years it used to think it was some combination of Harvard / Princeton / Berkeley . It would be more honest and more helpful if they simply recorded that these departments and several others ( Chicago , Stanford , ... ) are in the uppermost echelon of graduate programs in mathematics . Asking whether Harvard is better than Stanford is ridiculous : it depends upon what you 're studying . ( If you want to study analysis , do n't go to Harvard unless you know you want to work with the one faculty member there who does that . ) Students should be thinking of departments in terms of echelons . Within a given echelon , ranking is not helpful . However , barring some truly exceptional circumstances you want to go to a program in the top echelon that accepts you . As a corollary to this : if your undergraduate institution is in the top 10 , and every other program you 've gotten into is n't in the top 30 , then yes , I think you should stay where you are , unless you have a very good reason to go to a lower-ranked department ( best reason : there is a superstar there that has agreed to work with you ) . Finally though I have to say that I find it slightly odd that the OP has apparently gone to a top department , been admitted as a student to that top department , but not at any other department of comparable quality . That suggests to me that her application is not as strong as it could be , as those who know her in real life apparently value her more highly .
Aside from giving excellent talks at important conferences , here are several other ideas . I 've seen all of these work ( although rarely all for the same paper ) . Maintain a freely available copy ( or at least an arXiv link ) on your personal web page . Keep your CV up to date , including links to freely available version of all your papers . Make sure Google Scholar and similar indexing services are indexing your paper . Announce / brag about your paper on social media : Facebook , Twitter , Google + , LinkedIn , Tumblr , Pinterest , LiveJournal , etc. . If you have pages at clickbait sites like Academia.org or ResearchGate , upload copies ( of the arXiv version ) there . ( But if you do n't , do n't start now . ) Write a blog post about your paper . Better yet , convince someone else with a well-read blog to write a blog post about your paper . Give invited talks about your work at other universities/labs . If necessary , invite yourself . If you are a student , ask your advisor to brag about your new paper . If your paper significantly extends the work of other authors , or applies it in a novel way , contact those authors directly with a link to ( a free version of ) your paper . ( But do n't send a copy to someone just because you cite them . ) Whenever your paper provides an answer to a question on ( for example ) physics.stackexchange , answer the question and include a link to your paper . Develop a reputation for stellar work , so that people in your field regularly check your web page / arXiv / indexes / journals for your newest papers . The last method is by far the most effective .
Some people can buy off a course from their teaching duties in the non-summer months usually at the rate the department would have to pay to hire an adjunct to teach it . Some agencies will allow you to shift the salaries off yourself and onto a student so that maybe you go to 3 weeks from each of 4 grants rather 4 from each and use the saved money to fund some additional student time . This may or may not require permission from the funding agency , but it can usually be done without it as long as the PI is n't reduced to zero time . With the NSF in the US , faculty <URL> to have more than 2 months of time funded across all NSF grants without explicit permission from NSF . Now , if you have 1 DoE grant covering 2 months and 1 NSF grant covering 2 months , they wo n't notice . Some people also finagle this problem when their grants are staggered enough that there 's only a short period ( say one of three years ) where this is an issue by pushing the money off to a future year and then exercising an option for a no-cost extension of one year to spend out the money .
From less esoteric to more ( I 've seen all these things happen ) : Make sure you know how to " send the image to a projector " . Not all laptops do this automatically , and I 'm surprised at how many people do n't know how to do it . I 've also seen people be confused by the mirroring feature on Macs . Verify that there 's a power outlet or some place to plug in your laptop . Driving a projector eats power , and you do n't want to drain your battery during the presentation Turn off screen savers . at the very least it 's annoying , and sometimes the screen saver does wonky things to the projector display . Turn off your notifications ( mail , facebook , twitter , skype ... ) . It 's amusing for an audience ( but not for you ) if during a job talk they all get to see a subject header of the form " Interview at University X " where X is not where you 're at :) Make sure you have the right display converters . Usually something that converts your laptop to a VGA is standard . Macs are particularly difficult in this regard . Watch out for resolution issues . Most laptops are smart enough to drop resolution to deal with a projector , but sometimes they 're not . Keep a backup copy of the slides in a portable format ( PDF or PPT ) on a usb stick . In the worst-case you can always borrow a laptop ( from the previous speaker even ) and load up the slides . Dropbox/a web page is ok but not great because it requires an internet connection . And above all , as David M. R. says , check the setup beforehand if you can . Even that does n't guarantee a smooth presentation , but it eliminates a lot of the potential problems listed above .
First of all , check their personal website and any other content they have published which you have access to which may already offer the input you require . It would certainly be in order to personally e-mail the researcher , but be specific as to the type of input or information you require . The scientist is probably very busy , and a broad question is more likely to go unanswered in that case . If you intend to refer to certain findings from a related field , ensure you provide all the necessary information to answer your question , or at the very least provide links to the related papers or websites for the convenience of the researcher .
You had taken an ETS-driven exam , already , and let ETS give your email address to the universities ... These kind of emails would often be received by many graduate applicants , all over the world ... Hence , you should not assume that these emails are just for you , specifically based on your situation . There are just a bunch of advertisements to catch your attention for potential apply into them . Furthermore , with due attention to the intrinsic information-based characteristics of these emails , one could assert that there is no need to take any reply into account .
If your work is good enough , it deserves to be published . It does n't matter if it is the result of a hobby , undergraduate studies , or your main job as a researcher . Summarizing it to make it fit into the space allotted in a journal or conference proceedings will be a daunting task , ask your advisor for guidance and help .
As a PhD student I did exactly that , contacting professors for exchange about two years ago , and that worked very well for me . ( I ended up visiting a top UK university and the collaboration was , and still is , very productive . ) My supervisor was involved in discussing the places I wanted to go , but I handled all contact . Some advice : Study the professor 's webpage ( if they have one ) to see if it says anything about collaborations . If it says on their webpage that they have no time , do n't contact them . Send the professor an email , give them a week or two to answer , then follow up with a second reminder-email if there is no reply . Important things to do/mention : Make sure the email is very short , but that it still describes precisely what you want to collaborate on . Professors are chronically short on time . If you have a travel grant etc. that will fund your stay , it 's important to say so . ( They 're much more likely to accept you if they do n't have to spend any money . But I think most universities will waive term fees if you ask them . ) Add a sentence about your accomplishments so far , so they have some impression that having you visit is going to be a net gain for them . Mention any papers you 've co-authored , if you add a link make sure it 's short ( DOI , arXiv etc ) . Try to keep the email self-contained , but linking to any papers , your CV or research webpage " for more information about me " is OK . Also add a sentence describing how you think your proposed topic fits with what they are doing , so they know you 've actually checked out their group and read some of their papers etc. . In my experience , most people reply positively to such an email , so first send emails to the two or three places you want to visit the most . If none of those are successful , send to the next few places on your list . YMMV though .
We are allowed to share solutions etc , as long as each student 's does n't just copy but understands what he/she writes . This is the only information we have about your instructor 's policies , so this is the only answer we can give to your question . It 's OK to hire a tutor for help with the homework , as long as you do n't just copy but understand what you write . It 's also possible that your instructor intends different rules for paid tutors than for cooperation with your fellow students . However , we would have no way of knowing that from the information provided in your question . There are also general expectations about plagiarism and originality , and these are ethical norms that you 're responsible for understanding and following , regardless of your instructor 's policies . Your description of your working relationship with your tutor is n't specific enough to make it clear whether you have a problem here or not . As JeffE has pointed out , " fixing " your mistakes might entail plagiarism , if it means that what goes on your paper is n't actually what you wrote yourself .
Speaking from purely personal experience , I would n't necessarily worry about it . Of course it 's possible that your application was weak and that generally the other schools will feel the same way . On the other hand , it 's also possible that something you wrote just did n't appeal to someone working on the applications at this particular school and you were looked over . In my own experience applying to graduate school I actually got rejected from some of my ' backup ' schools but was accepted ( and was given extra incentive to come to ) one of my ' dream ' schools .
Research is not just the most important aspect of any PhD program worth the name ; it 's the entire point . Everything you do as part of the program ( teaching duties aside ) is to prepare you for a career as a researcher . So getting a PhD without any intention of putting this research training to use would be like spending years as a baking apprentice without any intention of becoming a baker : maybe not a complete waste if you really like baking ( but not enough to make it a career ? ) , but almost inarguably not the best use of your time . Lots of people get PhDs and do n't become researchers , but if these people had known beforehand what industry they would end up in , odds are they could have gotten a better jump start on their career by getting a Master 's degree focused on that industry and entering the workforce after one or two years ( rather than 5 + for the PhD ) . There are exceptions to this principle , but they are relatively uncommon , and usually involve industry jobs that somewhat resemble research anyway . I can think of only two other justifications for getting a PhD : learning for learning 's sake , and prestige . The former is a noble goal , but if all you want to do is learn without contributing to the body of knowledge in your field , this is contrary to the spirit of ( good ) PhD programs as stated above . Furthermore , you can learn all you want in your free time without entering a PhD program . Find out what the standard graduate-level textbooks are in your field , and work through them . If your knowledge gets up to the research level in a particular topic , you can start reading recent research articles . ( Your local library will likely have access . ) As for prestige , this may be subjective , but spending five years of your life for a piece of paper is unlikely to be satisfying in the long run . And , speaking as someone who has a PhD , you 'll soon learn that most people will not really want to address you as " Doctor . " Having said all that , if you do like ( or think you would like ) research , but are put off solely by the expected competition and stress , I urge you to be more open-minded . Academia is certainly competitive and stressful , but so are most careers worth having .
end question
start question
What data analysis software should a supervisor recommend to their research students ?
I would like for students to rapidly acquire flexible , durable analysis skills . Your criteria are quite stringent ! I think you are going to have to compromise at some point along the line . If you want them to acquire the skills rapidly , then they are probably going to have to use menu-based software , which will be limited in its flexibility . The long-term and more flexible solution would be for the students to learn statistical programming , but that of course has a steep learning curve . In my opinion , R has a lot of advantages . [ I imagine you have already come across it , so I may be stating the obvious here and you may have a good reason for ruling it out , but ... ] It is free and open source , and therefore once learnt , the skill can be taken anywhere . It 's massively flexible when you take into account all of the add-on packages Students can " ease " into it using R commander , which gives a menu-based interface but also outputs the corresponding code . It is popular and therefore very well resourced . The best compromise that I can think of would be to start the students off using the menu-based R commander package , but encourage them to inspect and customise the code where possible . If you are not able to give training yourself , it would probably be a good idea to arrange for someone else ( either in your department , or pay someone external ) to give a course . There are lots of good self-learning resources available , but a course ought to speed up the learning process . When they see how powerful the software is , it is likely to encourage them to put in the time and effort to learn to use it well .
This is standard practice . And it is necessary in order to detect selection bias . The <URL> provides a <URL> that includes entries for " declined to participate " and dropouts in various follow-ups . The American Psychological Association , in its <URL> , section 8.05 " Dispensing with Informed Consent for Research " , writes : Psychologists may dispense with informed consent only ( 1 ) where research would not reasonably be assumed to create distress or harm and involves ( a ) the study of normal educational practices , curricula , or classroom management methods conducted in educational settings ; ( b ) only anonymous questionnaires , naturalistic observations or archival research for which disclosure of responses would not place participants at risk of criminal or civil liability or damage their financial standing , employability or reputation , and confidentiality is protected ; or ( c ) the study of factors related to job or organization effectiveness conducted in organizational settings for which there is no risk to participants ' employability , and confidentiality is protected or ( 2 ) where otherwise permitted by law or federal or institutional regulations . The kind of summary statistics you cite falls squarely under point 1b . Of course , you do need to exercise some caution , in particular to ensure that confidentiality is maintained . Listing the names of non-participants , for instance , would certainly cross the line . As would giving out " too much " information from which one could reasonably deduce the identities of participants or non-participants ( if you work with a small , easily identified population , say ) .
I 'd like to write a paper about a specific open-source software project that I 've built but I 'm puzzled whether it would be appropriate to write a paper about it . After all , not many important software projects were published in the form of a publication . Edit : as a concrete example , this is one project I 've built : <URL> - it can visualize RDF structures as a dynamic graph which can be saved in SVG and used in presentations or slides . Would you find this appropriate as the subject of a publication ? I can help with specific suggestions for suitable venues in your area ( that accept system papers ) in order of decreasing impact for improving your research rep : <URL> . You need to be able to demonstrate real-world impact of the tool/system . Effectively , this track is for paving the cow-paths : publishing about tools/systems that are already well-known in the community but do n't have sufficient scientific contribution for a research track ( and incentivising the developement of tools/systems that are useful for the community ) . First step is to get your tool/system to be well-known . WWW Demo Track : Write a short 2-page paper on your idea , pack it with as much academically-restrained ehthusiasm and technical detail as you can and hopefully you 'll get to present it at the WWW conference . These 2-page papers will be published in the supplementary proceedings and will be indexed in DBLP . The criteria for demo papers as WWW is ( in my opinion ) often fickle ... a lot of demo papers are borderline/rejected full papers . Otherwise reviewers follow their own whims . ISWC | ESWC Demo/Poster/Challenge tracks : Probably you want to aim for a demo track . Submit a four or five page ( LNCS ) paper to ISWC or ESWC describing your demo . Main emphasis for reviewing is on the novelty of the system itself , technical soundness , and how nice a conversation-piece it will make at the poster/demo session . Demo papers are sometimes ( not always ) published as a CEUR proceedings , which will sometimes end up in DBLP . The first option is essentially free ( money wise ) for you . The latter two options will incur the cost of attending the conference to present a demo . If you are an independent researcher , that might not be an option : it might be a high cost for little reputation gain . But it depends on your long term goals . Another option is to find your inner scientific contribution and go for a research track submission . The most important aspect is that an expert in the area will learn something about the area that they did n't already know and could n't find out about elsewhere ( without doing the research themselves ) . As a reviewer in a research track , after reading a paper I will always ask myself : did I learn something ? What did I learn ? What is its nature ( theoretical , experimental , analytical , synthesis , etc. ) ? Where else could I have learned that ? As an author , I apply the same principle in reverse : what is the reader going to learn from this paper and how can I highlight it and frame it in the proper " research-speak " ? ( This may appear cynical , and perhaps it is a little , but being able to identify , highlight and sell your core contributions is a delicate art that does lead to better papers ... as well as higher success in peer review . ) Ultimately , with experience on your side , it sometimes does n't require much effort to find an angle from which something can be turned into a scientific contribution . Also , take encouragement from the fact that many of the most highly cited papers/references in the Semantic Area refer to software projects or systems of various types ( Google Scholar citations ) : Jena ( 856 ) , Sesame ( 1346 ) , Protege ( 1060 ) , DBpedia ( 1344 ) , OWL API ( 265 ) , and so forth . Being system papers , all of these papers were ( arguably ) arguable in terms of scientific contribution . Likewise , many authors in the area have made their names through works that are inherently practical while being based in industry ( e.g. , HP Labs , Talis , Bell Labs ) . Looking through the author list of some of the papers above will throw up some such names .
Personal anecdote : I am not allowed to install Skype on my corporate machine , for security reasons . ( I 'm unclear whether the issues our IT people fear are that people might listen in on our secretsecretsecret Skype calls , or whether they fear Skype might be a vector for malicious software . ) So do n't be surprised if someone can not do Skype . My company has a ( likely expensive ) <URL> subscription . This runs in browsers , so we have less security concerns . It allows the host a lot of options and will work for larger videoconferences ( multiple hundreds of participants ) . I realize that this is not academic use per se , so feel free to flame me ;-)
If you are including your supervisors name , or anyone else 's name , you should notify them first and allow them to review the paper before sending it to the publisher . If you are just wanting to publish under your name alone , it depends . Are you publishing findings from data that belongs to your advisor ( or anyone else 's data ) ? Typically any data collected by you that was paid for by your funding agency belongs to the principal investigator , which is usually your advisor . You should ask for their permission before you publish findings from his or her data . This applies to abstract submissions as well .
This seems like a strange situation , since it is very counterproductive for both you and your supervisor . If this is indeed common in your group , I am sure several ideas have been scooped by the time they finally get submitted . Unfortunately , I really do n't have any decent idea why your supervisor would act this way . The most important thing to do is to talk to your supervisor and do n't let him/her dismiss the issue . This may seem like an aggressive approach , but you can disguise it as a learning experience , e.g. " Please tell me what is wrong with the current manuscript because I believe it is ready for submission , oh wise one " . Whatever you do , remain polite . A few approaches you can try ( all of which are reasonable , so do n't be shy ) : Send reminders and send them often . Ask what you can do to improve the manuscript . If your supervisor has no further suggestions to change the manuscript , ask where you can submit it to directly . Do n't wait for him/her to wake up . This approach may lead to your supervisor turning it into a ping-pong match , asking you to make trivial but time-consuming extensions again and again . In this case , confront your supervisor and explain your perspective . If you can find an appropriate call for papers , ask permission to send the manuscript there . Calls typically have deadlines and are not necessarily a downgrade in terms of venue quality . This includes conferences and journal special issues . Having a hard deadline might help .
It 's a very free process . The reviewer can ask for it if they want ( though they would have to keep it confidential ) . You can refuse if you want . The reviewer can , as a result , decide to give a poor review . The editor can decide to reject the paper on that basis . In a few cases there might be a good reason that you would not want to share your primary data , but generally , I do n't see why it would be a problem . In any case , many journals ( at least in my field ) require , or at least strongly recommend , primary data to be made publicly available upon publication . If you are worried about being scooped , you are probably worrying over nothing . If a reviewer was to try to present your data as their own ( very unlikely and difficult to start with ) , it would be very easy to demonstrate , through your documented submission , that the work was yours and they were stealing it .
A dataset may not be publicly available , but there is no way for anybody but the owner to know who the owner may have chosen to privately share that dataset with . As for the owner of the data : I would expect anybody who was closely involved enough to know who the data was shared with to have a conflict of interest and to therefore not be used as a reviewer . Certainly , as an editor , if I saw a paper used a proprietary data-set from IBM , I would not invite a person from IBM to be a reviewer . As such , I would judge there to be no need to blind the origin of a dataset .
The statement you quote sounds terrible . It points in a direction where things approach the unethical . Publication of negative results are less common that positive although , I suspect , negative results ARE more common than positive . Since I am in an experimental field , I have never obtained the perfect results and always end up describing what went wrong ; and I am not alone . Anyway , I think your idea of writing up your experience is good . Naturally , I can not judge the merits of the experiences in terms of publicability . So I think your intention is very sound and the reaction of the lead investigator suspect ( or at best narrow-minded ) . To me " further publications should n't raise more limitations that should have been mentioned in the original publication " ( if verbatim from the lead investigator and with my emphasis ) sounds as if limitations were not included on purpose in the original study . So , if that is true then I can understand the nervousness . It sounds almost fraudulent .
You submitted late and did half-baked job . It does happen to the best of us . It does not , however , make sense to expect the lecturer to invest on a piece of work that you yourself consider subpar . Any information that they could give you would probably concentrate on the things you anyway know are problematic in this submission . If you did your best job , detailed feedback from the lecturer is valuable in refining your work . But if you did n't , and you know it anyway , you would just utilize their time/attention to little effect and would take it away from students who did - in this particular instance - a better attempt .
The following is condensed from advice for academic job hunts that I 've read <URL> and <URL> - I imagine it should be somewhat applicable for jobs in industry as well : If you would be applying for a position at Fall , begin applying from summer the previous year - applications tend to be sorted during committee meets , and the earlier you apply , the fewer applications are there , so there are higher chances of getting your application noticed . Hence , you 'll want to draft your research statement , teaching statement and curriculum vit ( CV ) the summer before your search . If you are applying for industrial as well as academic positions , you probably want more than one resume , since achievement , skills , and goal-oriented resumes can be more effective in the industrial setting . The middle of January is when most schools stop accepting applications . Even then , keep submitting to any position you find through February , particularly if someone there recommends you apply . You will probably hear back with invitations for interviews in January and February , but sometimes even March and April . Get your letter writers primed as early as possible . You 'll need at most six letter writers , but no less than three , and you 'll want to ask them at least a month in advance with all your documents .
In general , I refrain from initiating any physical contact other than handshakes or " congratulatory " gestures such as high-fives or fist bumps . This allows the student to control the level of interaction if they so choose . My suspicion about what would be considered " acceptable " is that it varies widely from country to country , depending on what is considered an " acceptable " level of contact between strangers or professional colleagues . For instance , in Muslim-dominated countries , the " side-hug " mentioned in the answer -- or even shaking of hands -- between a male boss and a female subordinate , or vice versa , would likely be frowned upon ! Similarly , in other countries , I could see how a " side-hug " could be within the realm of acceptable contacts ( although still on the somewhat " iffy " side ) .
Every document is , in the way you define it , immature . With everything you write your writing improves . Your papers will not be better because you have a degree . They will be better , because you learned something ( i.e. made mistakes ) before . However , there might be reasons not to publish your thesis , but it is not so different from normal working papers . Maybe your thesis is just bad , you did not get any meaningful results , you have made significant mistakes , etc. . So if your university allows , publish it online if you want to ( or if you think it may be worth reading / you can not think of a good reason not to ) ; everyone knows , it is only a master 's thesis and will read it in a different way than they would read a published paper ( or not at all ) .
I 'll answer , not from the perspective of a professor ( I 'm not one ) but as a student who had advisors who were very generous in that regard : What do you mean by independent research ? When people say this , they usually mean research that is outside a clear plan of action . For example , in the biomedical sciences , it 's somewhat common to turn a particular specific aim of an R01 grant into a PhD student 's dissertation . That 's a plan . But along the way , the student may be interested in a methodological musing , a side project , a short data analysis task on something interesting that 's come up , etc. . So basically , I 'd take it to mean anything that 's outside what you 've been tasked to do , or come up with tasking yourself to do , as part of your degree program . Should your students conduct independent research and publication in the field of their PhD/MSc research topic or it can be in any other field of their major and interest ? It probably should n't detract from their research topic , but I 've never seen any reason why more general topics are a problem . Indeed , if the student is restricting it to their research topic , than why is n't this part of their thesis/dissertation in the first place ? If their independent research is not in the field near to their PhD research , should they inform you about their other research projects or not ? It 's good for them to inform you of what they 're working on regardless . They may be able to provide support , put in a kind word to an editor , etc. . And these people will be writing your letters of recommendation - they should be able to talk about the exciting stuff you do even if it 's not directly their project . And they should be informed so they can tell if you 're potentially overburdening yourself .
I 'd recommend trying to gather some objective data on outcomes . For example , in the <URL> you can search by " name of school " and " year of degree " to find a list of people who graduated in 2014 or 2015 . It 's not guaranteed to be complete , and it sometimes mixes together people who were in different departments at the same university , but it 's usually pretty good ( and sometimes easier than finding this information on math department websites ) . Then you can start googling people , with " math " appended if necessary , to see what you can find . If you ca n't find any indication that someone is working in academia , then they probably are n't . If they are , then you can gauge how pleased you would be with such a job . This should give more reliable data than self-reported difficulty of finding postdocs , because it avoid filtering through the departmental culture . Some cohorts of grad students are optimistic and enthusiastic , while others are more apprehensive , and it 's not clear to me that this correlates particularly well with actual success on the job market . It 's also worth keeping in mind that the relevant issue is job opportunities , not actual outcomes . If one person complains about the difficulty of finding a job and another does n't , you ca n't conclude anything without knowing where they were applying . ( Sometimes students at more prestigious universities apply mainly to fancier postdocs , because they would n't be happy with less prestigious jobs . ) Unfortunately , this is more difficult to gather objective data on , but I think it 's a second-order effect .
The PhD is generally awarded to students for their individual contributions to science . That 's the whole point . It 's not only about advancing science , but advancing science yourself . Otherwise , we would grant a new PhD to each member of a research team every time they had significant new results . Everyone is aware that it 's possible to be more productive in teams , but the degree itself is really only about what you can add . So the encouragement to work on your own is there to make it easier to demonstrate what you have personally added to the body of knowledge in your area . Distinguishing your work from another student 's could be very hard if you do everything together . This is the traditional view at the very least . All this being said , discussions , brainstorming , help diagnosing problems should all be a part of students working with others ( students , postdocs , researcher professionals , the supervisor , and other faculty ) . You just have to keep your work separate enough that you can make an easy case for yourself when it comes time to defend your dissertation .
I 've received this form from hundreds of employers that later rejected me . I think schools that use it will send it to every applicant . So it does n't mean anything except that your application was received . I believe the reason for it being a separate form , rather than part of the application , is that it 's meant to be for statistical purposes only , and should not affect the hiring procedure . The best way to achieve this is to ensure that the hiring committee never sees it . So they send a separate form , to be returned to a separate office within the institution , which holds it confidential .
Any of the scenarios you describe can happen , in practice . ( I am in the United States ; this may differ in other countries . ) It depends on the student 's interests and abilities , the advisor 's interests and advising style , how broad advisor 's interests are , whether the advisor has funding for a particular project and needs a student to work on that problem , and many other factors . All three have happened within my own research group . ( Another possibility that happened in my research group that you have n't mentioned : student initiates a collaboration with another researcher , who proposes a topic , and involves the advisor in the project as well . ) Actually , the scenarios you describe are not discrete scenarios , but a spectrum from " most student-driven " to " most advisor-driven . " Some points on the spectrum include : Student enters grad school with a topic in mind that 's judged acceptable by advisor , and proceeds with that topic . Student enters grad school with a topic in mind , that evolves and changes following advice from advisor . Student enters grad school with a general idea and , together with guidance from advisor and extensive reading of literature , shapes it into a topic . Student enters grad school without idea , advisor suggests general direction , and upon extensive reading and with guidance from advisor , student shapes it into a topic . Advisor hands student idea , and student proceeds to execute idea . Of course , this is a PhD , so as student works on the topic , the student 's mastery of the specific research will most probably come to exceed the advisor 's , even though advisor originally proposed the idea . Other scenarios include : student enters grad school with idea in mind and then changes directions completely in middle , student enters grad school with idea and changes advisors in middle but keeps idea , and many more . .
There is nothing unethical about publishing something like what you suggest . Personally I would be happy and encourage a student of mine if that happened . So from a formal side you need not to worry . I can add that authorship , or contributorship , does not include adding names to a paper if they have not contributed anything ( or enough ; see posts on authorship on this , Academia.sx , site ) . I would , however , be open about it with your advisor . I assume you have a good working relationship with him/her ? The only thing that could complicate things would be if you are in a bad working relationship with your advisor or if your system is very hierarchical and not open to initiatives . Clearly only you can assess this . But , I do not want you to over-emphasize these " risks " . If you get stuff published on your own and in a field that is not directly within your topic , it will only be viewed as a positive in your resume when applying for , for example , post-doctoral positions . As for risking rejection , I suggest you have someone whose views you trust to read and comment on the paper . Having someone independent look at the work is always good to work out details that can otherwise distract reviewers . This is always a good idea so it is not unique to your case .
Possibly Yes If you are using an <URL> , then any unique or interesting results that you find would be candidate material for an article . If you are writing your own CFD code , then you must validate/verify it before you publish your code 's results . [ In code validation , ] The overall objective is to demonstrate the accuracy of CFD codes so that they may be used with confidence for aerodynamic simulation and that the results be considered credible for decision making in design . ... Credibility is obtained by demonstrating acceptable levels of uncertainty and error . A discussion of the uncertainties and errors in CFD simulations is provided on the page entitled Uncertainty and Error in CFD Simulations . The levels of uncertainties and errors are determined through verification assessment and validation assessment . There are several methods of validation but the two widely accepted methods are : Simulate a configuration that you can test , then test that configuration . If your code 's results matches the test results , that 's generally considered a good validation . Simulate a configuration that you can model with an already validated CFD code . If their results agree , that 's also considered a good validation . Of course you still need to perform a grid sizing analysis and other tests to ensure/prove you 're using your code correctly .
end question
start question
Is a thesis a publication ?
In order , yes , and no . A thesis is a public document and thus helps establish " prior art " in terms of research . Of course sometimes researchers come up with the same ideas simultaneously , or certain work is just not known as widely as it should be , so sometimes work gets innocently repeated ( as compared to plagiarised , which can also happen , but reasonably rarely ) . As for publication , a thesis is an entirely different kind of publication to a paper , in every discipline I am familiar with , publishing papers drawn from work in a thesis is expected , sometimes even required . The only ( ? ) way you could interfere with further publication would be if you published your thesis as a monograph .
The few times I was asked for such a thing , I literally copy-pasted the abstract for my thesis into a document and submitted it . mathjobs does n't want to tell me which jobs asked for it back when I applied so I 'm not sure ( I got two postdoc offers that round but I 'm pretty sure those places did n't ask for a thesis abstract ) . No one emailed me to tell me that I 'd done it wrong though . Usually there is a contact person listed in each mathjobs ad that you could contact to ask for details , but if say the deadline is tonight I would recommend just copy-pasting the thesis abstract , or making up a thesis abstract if your thesis does n't exist yet . In principle though , the introduction to your research statement and your thesis abstract can be ( but is n't always ) quite distinct ( my thesis was a subset of my research statement ) . A research statement should have at least something to say about where you envision your research going , but a thesis abstract is mostly limited to the contents of your thesis .
The posing of " open " questions is quite common in doctoral dissertations , usually in the final " conclusions and outlook " section . However , your situation is a bit different , in that you have an actual project that is designed to address these questions , but the study is too long for you to wait to include the results in your PhD thesis . Given this , I would basically do what you 've said : introduce the basics of the case study you 've designed , what it 's designed to do , and so on . You just wo n't be able to present the actual results of the experiments . If this is clearly communicated to your committee by both you and your advisor , then this should n't be a major problem .
You can call it a " preprint " if it is ready to circulate , or say that it is " in preparation " if you are working on it but it 's not done yet . ( The difference is whether you would be willing to give interested people a copy now , or whether you would ask them to wait until it 's done . ) Do n't call it " submitted " if that 's not actually true , even if you think it will be submitted by the time anyone sees the reference . Getting caught in even a minor lie can hurt your reputation for honesty , and there are any number of ways something could go wrong in the process of finishing and submitting the paper .
I do n't think you need to be too formal here . Just include whatever information you believe is relevant , for example : Master 's Thesis : " Topic " , at University X , supervised by Prof. Y. Theses are different from regular publications anyway .
I completely agree with ff524 's criteria , but here are some further considerations : A good thesis topic should not be all or nothing . Instead , it should accommodate a range of levels of ambition . There should be fallback options that would be enough to graduate even if things go poorly , moderately ambitious outcomes that you could reasonably aim for , and very ambitious outcomes that would be fantastic if they could be achieved . It should offer scope for creativity and choice by the student . You can only impress hiring committees so much if it looks like your advisor was the mastermind behind your thesis . Instead , it has to be clear that over time you took ownership of the project and played a major role in determining its direction ( even if your advisor made the initial suggestion and provided feedback and guidance ) . Your thesis topic should connect with other topics you 'd like to explore in the future . If you spend your entire early career revisiting and elaborating on your thesis topic , it wo n't set you up for success as a researcher . Instead , you need to branch out , and your choice of thesis topic can really help with this . Choose a topic that is central and well-connected to adjacent areas , rather than one that is isolated . That way you can build on your previous experience as you branch out . Your thesis advisor needs to care about the topic . Sometimes people are willing to supervise theses on topics they do n't particularly care about . They do this in an attempt to be helpful , but it can end up working against you when you graduate and discover that your advisor 's lack of caring translates into a lack of support on the job market . For a multi-year project like a thesis , it 's generally best to pick a topic that seems to be becoming more popular and influential over time , rather than less so . This sounds obvious , but it 's surprisingly subtle to figure out . Beginners are sometimes a little behind the times and can get excited by topics that were hot a few years ago but have since been thoroughly investigated and are already in decline . It should be something you like doing , not just something you would like to have done .
The answer to this depends on the state of the filing and the particulars of the publication venue . If you have n't filed anything yet , you definitely are n't required to disclose , and more than you are required to cite a paper that has n't been submitted yet . After all , any number of things might prevent the filing from happening . Also , if you disclose before filing , it could screw up your patent . If you have filed , then it depends on whether the venue requires you to disclose a conflict of interest . For example , PLoS ONE is very picky about conflict disclosure , but most IEEE venues do not care . A patent filing ( preliminary or full ) , is reasonable to treat as a conflict of interest . If you 're not sure , though , then the people handling your patent will almost certainly be willing to help you figure out the right way to handle it . In my experience , the IP offices of many institutions are very happy when researchers are actually willing to engage with them and will be very helpful to you .
Obviously you should check for yourself with whoever you attempt to publish the manuscript with , but I 've never seen a journal state that the title of a publication must be unique , and I have publications which have appeared in some form as posters with the same title . It actually makes some sense to keep the titles the same . Any buzz that you might have generated with the poster may increase readership of the article . If you have separate titles then potential readers would n't have the association .
I doubt anyone would consider a table format as plagiarized when used to show new data . It would be akin to saying use of Tukey 's box-and-whisker type plots would be plagiarism . The question is understandable , however , since someone could arguably claim some such structure as intellectual property . I think the key here lies in what is being copied . You are copying the structure but not the content . To protect the form would be quite pointless since no-one would buy the rights and it would be simple to make sufficient variations to argue it is not the same form . I am sure this could be discussed at length by lawyers . Although , not within the scope of your question , most author 's will be happy to see something they produce becoming reused and maybe even a standard . I had a figure in a paper that was picked up by IPCC and used to show something different than my original but still unequivocally based on my design . So in the end , as suggested in comments to your question . you can pay homage to the original by acknowledging the idea of the table in your acknowledgement or by citing the paper and stating the table is based on their table . Which makes most sense , will depend on circumstances in your paper .
As alluded to in the comments , there is no generic " right " answer : the number will depend strongly on the nature of your thesis , the state of the literature related to it , and your personal scholastic style . Nevertheless , in the spirit of engineering approximations , I will supply you with some rough guidelines . As a lower bound , I would be startled if it was possible to place most theses within the context of pre-existing work in less than about 20 references . In certain contexts such as an obscure corner of pure mathematics perhaps this might be possible , but in most cases work does not take place in a vacuum , and other people will have either used similar techniques or cared about similar problems in the past . As an upper bound , I would be concerned with a thesis with on the order of 200 or more references that the student has n't been doing enough work on their own original research and has been investing too much time and energy in building a literature review , rather than a thesis . Again , there will likely be cases where a thesis with an extremely high number of references would be reasonable , but these are likely to be unusual . Notice the extremely wide range and suspiciously round numbers in my estimates : really there is no " right " answer for how many there should be in general , but perhaps these will help with some initial first impressions in one 's thinking .
As was suggested in the comments , if you want to share your thesis with researchers in other countries , it is better to write it in English than in other languages . However , I will go further than that and say that in the 21st century , English is the lingua franca of communication in most technical fields . If you want to participate in the wider technical community in a meaningful way , developing your ability to express yourself in English , both orally and in written form , is essential . Therefore , you should avail yourself of opportunities to work in English whenever practical . It is still important to be able to communicate in your local language , but this is becoming less of an issue as time goes on : for many people , they do scientific work in English , even if their everyday workplace conversations are in another language !
In order , yes , and no . A thesis is a public document and thus helps establish " prior art " in terms of research . Of course sometimes researchers come up with the same ideas simultaneously , or certain work is just not known as widely as it should be , so sometimes work gets innocently repeated ( as compared to plagiarised , which can also happen , but reasonably rarely ) . As for publication , a thesis is an entirely different kind of publication to a paper , in every discipline I am familiar with , publishing papers drawn from work in a thesis is expected , sometimes even required . The only ( ? ) way you could interfere with further publication would be if you published your thesis as a monograph .
I 've been publication chair of an IEEE conference before , and it 's pretty straight-forward . IEEE has a well-arranged process for managing conference publications , and you basically just need to hold up your side of the deal and make sure that nothing falls through the cracks . In particular : you should have an IEEE CPS publications contact . You can get this from the current general chairs , since they 're dealing with IEEE , or ( since its usually the same from year to year ) you can ask the previous publications chair . Set up a meeting with that person ASAP and they can walk you through the process and make plans with you ; I 've had very good experiences working with their publications personnel . The key responsibilities that you should expect to fulfill are : Set a schedule acceptable to IEEE and the conference chairs Work with the general chairs to fill out the required forms and get them to the IEEE on time , so that you can get the publications <URL> contract signed . This will include setting the various different types of publications ( e.g. , main track , short papers , workshop papers , tutorial abstracts , etc ) , as well as pages sizes , expected number , delivery method ( I recommend USB sticks ) and budget . Send information about camera ready from IEEE to the various conference chairs that need it ( general , program , workshops , tutorial , etc. ) . Work with chairs to get all of the front matter prepared in a timely fashion and within the schedule negotiated with IEEE ( cover , index information , introductions , sponsored material , etc. ) . Immediately after the conference , report to IEEE whether there were any no-shows ( who should have their papers removed ) . One month after reporting whether there were and no-shows , everything should appear online in IEEE Xplore . If it does n't , then you need to keep pinging IEEE 's representative to make sure things get into IEEE Xplore as promptly as possible .
Whenever possible , you should try and cite the original source to make sure proper credit is attributed , especially if the original work is not well known enough to constitute " textbook material " . For example , you can probably skip citing Einstein 's original paper on special relativity and cite a newer textbook instead , where current standard notation and more context to the theory is provided . Some times citing the derivative work can add to the discussion in the way of a simplified treatment over the original , further clarifications , notes on implications , and so on . Keep in mind that original work is often obscure , may not yet incorporate terminology or concepts that became mainstream after it was published , etc. . In these cases I would recommend citing both the original and the derivative work . In my own papers I have used sentences such as " ... our treatment is based on the theory presented by Doe and collaborators in their seminal paper [ 1 ] , later reviewed more pedagogically by Smith [ 2 ] . " Some journal editors will ask you to remove citations if they think they are redundant . This usually applies to obvious cases such as " ... according to literature sources [ 1-25 ] . . " , but I guess an occasional picky editor might ask you to remove some of the references even if you 're using them reasonably . In that case you need to judge by yourself if its worth insisting on keeping all the citations . To summarize , when it doubt , I think it 's best to err on the side of inclusion and make sure 1 ) that due credit is given to all the authors that deserve it and 2 ) that previous work you rely on for your study can be traced back following the items provided in the list of references .
Honestly , my expectations for undergraduate theses are very limited . Any well-written discussion that demonstrates significant understanding of the research area is probably satisfactory . A doctoral dissertation is supposed to demonstrate significant research skill and the ability to perform cutting-edge research . A master 's thesis is supposed to demonstrate the ability to perform some useful research in the subject area . An undergraduate thesis is supposed to demonstrate that a student knows something worth knowing about a topic , and original results are not generally a requirement . In a way , it is good that you are unhappy with your undergraduate honors thesis . That demonstrates that you know what you have actually accomplished and also clearly understand the weaknesses of your work . It may be unfortunate that you have not had enough time to complete all the work you would have liked to complete , but if you continue along an academic career path , you will get ample opportunities to pursue more complete research projects . ( As a personal note , I should add that as I am writing this comment , I really ought to be providing comments on the thesis draft that I received the other day from my own honors college student . This is a really good student , and he has already appeared as an author on a paper in a top journal , based on his work over the past year . On the other hand , his written thesis is lacking in both contextualization and descriptive detail . To bring his work up to the level where I would like it to be would be a significant undertaking , and it is probably not going to get to that level in the limited time we have . To some extent , that leaves me disappointed , but I do not want to lose track of the fact that this is a really first-rate student , and what he has produced -- imperfect as it is -- is quite remarkable for an twenty-one-year-old undergraduate . )
Your institution almost certainly has a policy on this , and an office dedicated to administering it . You should consult them . If you really think this is serious , you should also consult an intellectual property attorney rather than relying on the babblings of some goofball from the Internet ( e.g. me ) . In the US , employees of a university are commonly required to sign an agreement that the university has an interest in any patent or other profitable invention that they develop in the course of their work . The agreement usually specifies that the royalties and other profits are to be split between the university and the inventor . I have not heard of this being required of students , and if you had signed one , you would presumably know . However , if your advisor had a significant part in the project , he or she may have some rights in it as a matter of law ( and the university in turn would get a share of your advisor 's , per their agreement ) . Note that it may be relevant where the funding for the project came from , and what if any financial support you received from the university .
The authors would like to thank Jane Doe for her assistance in the preparation of this article . or some variation of the sentence above .
I 've seen a couple of PhD defenses with demos ( in engineering/computer science ) . It 's not common because many PhD theses do n't naturally require a demo due to their subject , or because a demo would be logistically difficult ( e.g. requires special equipment that ca n't be brought to the room where the defense will take place , or takes too long given the time allotted for the defense ) . Also , live demonstrations are somewhat prone to failure , and a PhD defense is not a good time for a failed demo :) But if a major contribution of the thesis happens to be something demonstrable , and it 's not too difficult logistically , then a demo can definitely enhance a defense . ( If logistics are the issue , a short video of the demo can also enhance a defense . )
In my opinion , it is perfectly fine if you want to put so many original pictures in your thesis and if you are writing a thesis in natural science , you can even put some pictures from other papers/books in your introduction chapter . Just try to imagine you are a thesis reader ( a professor ) with so many other things to do . They would like to read less text and see more comprehensive figures . Of course , making a figure comprehensive depends on the quality of your graphics as well as your caption text . So here 's what I suggest : anytime you want to put a figure in your text , ask yourself : how this figure is going to help my readers understand the main point ? Is it conveying the main message ? And how the captions will help to understand this message ? Remember , other people also have limited time and sometimes limited interest in what you did or even the task of evaluating the thesis , so it is up to you to make your material concisely so that they can understand about your intentions easily .
Would I fail if , for example , during the discussion a mistake in my comparison and evaluation approach is discovered which makes my results meaningless ? Although I discussed my approach and everything I did with my advisor ( postdoc not the prof ) , yet I still fear that I might have done something wrong and then everything collaps . This should not happen unless : The mistake is blatantly obvious and something you should have really known better . And with blatantly obvious , I mean something that somebody who has not even studied computer science or a related field could easily spot . Even then you may have chances , if the rest of your work is appropriate -- almost everybody brainfarts now and then . You made not only one mistake but a lot of big mistakes . It becomes obvious that you deliberately ignored that mistake , to avoid being stuck or to get " nicer " results . ( In the first two cases , your advisor is in big trouble , too . ) The point of the master thesis is that you should demonstrate that you can investigate a scientific question under supervision ( or something similar -- check the regulations , if you wish to know ) . One mistake does not change this . Moreover , in some examination regulations I am aware of , there is a procedure for the case that some important but localised flaw is detected in your thesis . For example , you could be given a month to amend your thesis . How would one fail a master thesis defense ? I have not experienced or heard of such a case but from what I have gathered , you pass if you : Give a talk about your thesis . Be able to answer questions about it . Are not detected to have been cheating . Even if you suffer from a mental breakdown due to nervousness or similar , you probably can repeat the defense -- at least with any reasonable examination regulation and examination committee . I am aware of one case where somebody had a nervous breakdown for understandable reasons  and the examination board let him repeat the exam . If you look into your examination regulations , there are probably some clauses that allow the examination board to do some things at their own discretion in exceptional cases . Be aware though that being very difficult to fail does not make the defense unimportant . A bad defense may seriously ( and in particular more than nominally ) affect your thesis degree , which in turn has a huge impact on your total degree . In particular having passed a thesis with the lowest possible degree ( or something close to it ) is something you definetely do not want to have in your vita  .  It 's very complicated , but you might compare it to the following : In the middle of the defense , somebody who was the defender 's girlfriend until six months ago enters the room being obviously pregnant in her ninth month .  Unless you are in one of those few disciplines where this is the norm .
end question
start question
Is it bad if my mom comes to a conference with me ?
You ask about " stick together " . This is probably not an ideal idea . Generally , in a conference , you want freedom of action . Going with your mother may induce you to " talk to the known " person whenever you are unsure ; i.e. you talk to her whenever you are not sure how to approach people - the notorious " escape route " - but this is exactly what conferences are not for . When I went to my first conference , I made a point to talk to as many people as I could . At the beginning , it is quite a leap of faith . But later you find , it is fun , you get to know people , and you get to know new research directions and ideas . Sometimes it feels difficult , but remember : all you people have one thing in common - the topic of the conference . You are very unlikely to go wrong starting a conversation about that . If you are unsure how to start , start with people which look like they are alone at the conference , and probably a bit lost . They will be grateful to get somebody to talk to ; you may meet interesting colleagues ( do n't think that , because they are alone , they are not good scientists - good scientists may not be good at socialising ) , and notch up a good deed , to boot . It is fine to take your mother to social events and the like , but I recommend that , if she joins the conference , say , because she is interested , that she stays mostly in the background and does not send signals of " supervision " to others or - even more importantly - to you . If you can keep that balance , then , by all means , bring her with you .
I think it is perfectly reasonable to expect a timely response , however it seems to be the case that many graduate schools are overwhelmed with applications and underestimate the time it takes to deal with them . A slightly more cynical view would be that many graduate school admin departments are understaffed and do n't have the resources to cater for expected number of applicants . In my case I submitted my application on 28 Feb and was informed that interviews would take place " during the week of the 19 March " . This date came and went and I assumed I had not been successful , so I called the Faculty Graduate Office the following week and was informed that the process was taking longer than expected but I would be notified of the status in due course . On 5 April I received an email saying I had been selected for interview and " we will contact you shortly with an interview date and time " . On 25 April I was given the interview date ( for the middle of May ) . I would recommend that you just call them and ask to know the status .
I do n't know how mathjob distributes candidates ' applications to schools , but I doubt anyone cares . I put all applications I get for my job postings into a folder in no particular order and never look at the order of application . Someone has to be first . Go ahead ! Apply away !
Is it normal to submit an abstract to a conference when the research is NOT completed ? Sure . There are plenty of fields where the purpose of a conference is to discuss research that is " still cooking . " In fact , many journal publications can be viewed as interim reports on larger research programs that are still in progress . You might use this opportunity to set a goal for ( roughly ) the piece of your thesis you want to have done by the date of the conference . It 's ok if that piece is relatively small , and nobody at the conference will hold you strictly to what you say in the abstract . In fact , some people submit abstracts on one thing and then talk about something entirely different ... I wo n't advocate that behavior as an intentional strategy , but I will say that many people ( myself included ) prefer a great talk to exacting consistency with the abstract .
Flippant version : It is normal AND it is a sign that the advisor does n't care at all . Less flippant version : I would wait a couple more days . Then , if still no response , I would ask around to see if the professor is sick/having a major life crisis/etc . If not , then I would conclude that they do not meet a reasonable standard of availability , and I would choose to work with someone else . There are few things more depressing in academia than colleagues who drop the ball and ignore you , especially when they are senior to you and you rely on them to make progress on your work . Life is too short to be working with someone who is not interested in working with you .
I am guessing you are talking about RECOMB , one of the most important computational biology conferences . The story behind this is a little complicated and can show you some of the difficulties faced by a relatively new interdisciplinary field . Since computational biology has both computer scientists and biologists , it needs to answer the needs of both cultures . For computer scientists , presentation and publication in the proceedings of an important conference is considered excellent . In biology , however , publication is mainly in journals . A second difference between cultures is that in computer science it is standard to publish extended versions of conference papers in journals . In biology , this is usually not acceptable unless it is a low-tier journal . So what do you do if you want to get submissions of great work from computational biologists of both sides ? This is a challenge that computational biologists have been dealing with not just in this conference but also in other conferences . There have been all kinds of proposed solutions - I will not list them here . RECOMB organizers have tried different solutions and decided to call the accepted manuscripts " extended abstracts " , and these are published only in the conference proceedings ( which are not freely available ) . This way , computer scientists consider it published in the conference and biologists consider it unpublished so they can still submit it to a high-tier journal . Actually they usually also have other " submission tracks " such as coordinated submission to a specific journal in parallel with the conference .
I think the salient point in your question can be more explicitly stated as : What determines which advantages are fair and which are unfair to have during an exam ? Going to the extreme for fair advantages : Is not being sick on the exam day cheating ? Is not being hungry cheating ? Is not staying up the night before cheating ? Is attending every lecture and study session fair ? Is studying for the exam fair ? Is being more intelligent than your classmates fair ? Is always marking the correct answer fair ? Is lucking out and having exam question be on something you happen to be very experienced with ( database question for a seasoned database programmer ) fair ? All of these are obviously fine . Yet consider the other extreme : Is smoking during the exam fair ? Is taking Adderall fair ? Is doing cocaine before the exam fair ? Is hacking the instructor 's computer to get answers fair ? Is manipulating the TA to trick them into revealing answers to you fair ? Is bringing a cheatsheet or phone with you fair ? Is making someone else take the test with you fair ? These are n't qualitatively different from the previous group . Sure , some are distinguished by being illegal ( hacking ) but many are accepted ways of improving performance in all but exam contexts ( having reference materials at hand , looking up things you do n't know online , collaborating with peers ) . I posit to resolve this as follows : Exams are not a meritocracy . The point is n't to enforce some sort of egalitarian principle or to " let the best man win " . The exam is part of the course , and the aim of the course is to make students proficient with the course material . The exam exists as a target for the students to aim for as they are independently studying and preparing . If you agree to this point , then the question of what is fair becomes trivial : The instructor allows as " fair " any behavior that they deem conducive to learning . For example , studying for days on end may be unfair to students who do n't have as much time to study , but encouraging students to study benefits learning , so instructors deem it fair and sanction it . On the other hand , stealing exam questions beforehand is an extremely effective way to do " well " on the exam , but not only do you learn nothing this way , if you get caught and punished there may be severe consequences for your future career . Theft of questions is a mechanism by which the exam is enabled to act as a <URL> . The instructor , therefore , tries to remedy this by specifically banning this mechanism . That such banned mechanism are called " unfair " ( as if to imply some egalitarian or justicial purpose ) is , I think , an artifact of language . Coming back to your question : Is it fair for me to drink caffeine during tests ? Let 's accept the premise that drinking coffee increases your performance ( I am skeptical of this ) . Is this conducive to the learning process ? There is a tiny positive effect - your brain performing better during the exam means you will be more likely to experience those moments of really grasping a concept when you are forced to use it during the exam . Does it facilitate a perverse incentive ? Dubious . If the caffeine helps mental performance that much , students will probably start drinking it during courses or when they study , which means their learning will be enhanced . If they drink only during the exam , their score will be slightly inflated compared to other students . But the effect is tiny and self-damping : The more effective coffee proves to be , the more students will start drinking it , and everyone will end up on equal footing anyway . The smell of coffee may slightly disadvantage other students , which has a very small positive effect on your grade if the exam is graded on a curve . However , the effect is tiny , and if any student feels otherwise , they can always complain and ask you to remove the offending beverage . Taken together , it seems like there 's a few positive and a few negative effects , but all are very small . The only thing being meaningfully incentivized is the business of the coffee shop - but this does not detract from the learning process . On the other hand , some people enjoy drinking coffee , it makes them feel more comfortable in the exam , and if it lets them believe they have control over their performance and have " stacked the deck " in their own favor , the psychological motivation may contribute to a more positive attitude towards the course in general . Altogether , when you are trying to teach someone something , it probably works better if they are physically comfortable rather than not . So I do n't think it should be considered unfair or banned , unless students are very clumsy and constantly spill the coffee , litter by leaving empty cups around , or otherwise go about it in an unacceptable manner . As an addendum , with more " hardcore " performance enhancing drugs , this may not be the case . For example , instructors would most likely be against taking drugs like Adderall ( although this is ve
Your assumption depends on your location . If you are interested in obtaining a PhD in Computer Science at a school in the US , then in fact many programs do not expect you to have a Master 's degree prior to beginning your doctoral studies . However , if you 've been in industry for 16 years , it may be difficult to secure the letters of recommendation required for entry . Certainly letters from employers are accepted , especially in your case , but if they do not show a strong desire and aptitude for research , they will not be worth as much . However , do n't let that dissuade you . Apply anyway , if that 's what you want to do .
It is time to decide whether to lead or get out of the way . If you choose to get out of the way , you will need to either find a PhD project that does interest you or do something else . The more interesting and constructive option is to decide to lead . You have presumably spent some time learning the background to the project . The new students do not have that background , but are interested in the project . You should do everything you can to help them succeed . Work with them on deciding what should be coded , bringing your background knowledge to the table . Work with them on turning results into papers . You do n't have to code better than them , just make their coding more effective than it would have been without your efforts .
As so often , this may be field-specific , so I 'm giving a CS perspective : Posters are not full papers . Often , it is totally acceptable that a poster presents work in progress , or preliminary results . While a paper adds some vague hints to separate future steps in continuing the research after presenting a finished contribution , on a poster , that can well be the other way round . Therefore : Use the opportunity to show what you have done so far and where you want to go from there on your poster . Reconsider what the gist of the poster is - you may have to give up the plan that the poster is about your results , and switch the focus of your poster to talking about your research process . That way , you can present the goal of your poster to collect comments and suggestions on how to retrieve some meaningful results in the direction you 're interested in . Like this , you are not presenting just so you can present , you are presenting because it is the best way to get concrete comments by other researchers . Of course , it depends on what exactly you have written in your poster abstract . If you explicitly said there that the poster will focus on results , the situation may be more problematic .
There is n't anything wrong with submitting to a conference that might not be a perfect fit . I would urge you to ensure that the fit is decent enough that you wo n't be wasting anyone 's time , but cross-polination can be great for both fields . When I was a graduate student and was helping my advisor review papers for a prominent conference , I read an outstanding paper that I did n't believe was on-topic for the conference , and I suggested to my advisor that it should be rejected it even though it had a novel ( and cool ) contribution . When I discussed it with her , she said that for really excellent papers , program committees will sometimes be flexible . If I was convinced it was that good , she said , I should give it a positive review and let the committee sort it out . In the end they accepted the paper . It was very well-received at the conference , and the authors were excited to get the paper into the competitive conference , where it would undoubtedly be seen by a lot of people .
Others may differ in opinion , but I personally think that gift cards are a poor choice for expressing personal gratitude . The problem is that gift cards are effectively cash with spending restrictions . Your colleague has invested time and energy in helping you , and giving cash would essentially be saying how much per hour you feel their time is worth . Instead , I would recommend offering something like taking them out for a fancy lunch , which invests your time and gives the two of you a chance to do some informal bonding and building of your professional relationship . Unless , of course you do n't actually want to spend time alone with this colleague ( many possible good reasons for that ) , in which case I would still recommend looking for some way to express gratitude that shows an investment of time and caring beyond just money .
Publishing things that you know are erroneous is a good way to get a really bad scientific reputation . Depending on how severe it is , it might go so far as to be labelled fraud and formally sanctioned , basically killing your career . If it 's important , then yes , you need to fix it . If it 's not published yet , then fix it before you publish it . If it 's published , then you will need to submit a correction or possibly even a retraction . Good scientists do this , and <URL> .
Keep it short and succinct , I would say a paragraph is good , unless otherwise stated in the application . If this means that you only have enough space to talk about one of those areas , then pick one . If the conference is more geared towards pure mathematics , I would suggest expanding on your interest in cryptography . Otherwise , if it is an applied mathematics conference , then talk about your studies in biological math . Chances are schools which specialize in pure mathematics will attend a pure mathematics conference , and likewise for applied math . If you want to find out the universities who are attending , just ask an event coordinator . I 'm sure there is n't any secrecy surrounding who is attending .
I agree with all of @Nate Eldredge 's comments . If you have a good relationship with your advisor , you should be able to say " This paper lies outside of my field of expertise . I do n't feel qualified to review it ; in fact , even to understand it at a basic level would require me to spend substantial time familiarizing myself with the terminology of a different academic field . " According to your comments , you do not feel comfortable saying this to your advisor . So here is what I would suggest instead : do the reviewing together with your advisor , in person . So for instance you could begin by saying " I started reading the paper you assigned me , and I have some questions I 'd like to discuss with you . When can we meet to talk about it ? " Then when you meet you can begin to engage with all the unfamiliar stuff and see for yourself how far away it really is from your interests and those of your advisor . If it turns out that your advisor does n't understand the paper either , I would try to subtly lead him to the conclusion that neither of you should be reviewing it . If he tries to shove it onto you , reiterate that you are doing it but that you want to get his input . If necessary , ask a question of the form " How would you handle this review job if you were in my place ? " The point being that the advisor is in your place since he is the one who has been asked to do the reviewing . To pull this off properly may require some verbal aikido . The worst case scenario is that after all this your advisor makes clear to you that he does n't care that neither of your have the expertise to review this paper ; he wants you to do it anyway . At that point he is asking you to commit academic dishonesty , and you will be in a tough spot : you will have to decide whether turning in a noncommittal review of a paper that you do n't understand is the least evil .
The time frame to a point where a question can or indeed should be sent varies depending on the typical time for that journal , or of similar journals in your field . To me 2.5 months does not sound too long , a decision after one month sounds very quick if I consider a normal set of reviewers also should make their evaluations in that period . If you think sufficient ( relative to what you perceive as " normal " ) time has passed you can certainly send a short e-mail asking for information . If you have an excuse for asking , in addition of just wanting to know , your mail is far less likely to be perceived as " pushy " . But , regardless , editors will get hit by such mails fairly regularly and despite some of them or the bulk of them being a source of irritation at times , the question is not strange by any means . It is all down to the tone of the mail . The fact that the editor is retired should not affect any aspect of the review procedure so I do not see any reason to take that fact into consideration . The journal must appreciate the work the editor is doing , otherwise the editor would likely not be there .
Yes , it is acceptable , particularly since the author lists will all be different . Go for it ! One word of warning : The papers themselves must have clearly different content . If you submit five nearly identical papers , the editors are likely to accept at most the best one and reject the rest . That will annoy your other co-authors mightily .
By continuing to publish with your advisor , you are not showing that you are an independent researcher . People will always question whether it is possibly your advisor that is doing the work , coming up with the ideas , guiding the research plan , and simply by looking at your publication record , there is no evidence that this is not the case . If on the other hand , you publish papers alone or with different coauthors , and you have a clear research plan , independent of your advisors , then you will start to demonstrate your independence . But it is okay to continue publishing with your advisor -- I still do -- as long as your record says I am independent .
Dave 's answer is great . To add a different perspective , you should definitely put more thought into what you want to get out of graduate school . <URL> . However , your publication count definitely does , as does the people with whom you 've collaborated , the technical and research skills you 've gained , the understanding of how a research lab works , presentation skills , networking skills , and your ability to subsist on ramen noodles . It 's very easy for a graduate student to lose sight of what 's important , particularly when it just looks like " work on this " . At the very least , I would talk with your graduate advisor or another professor in the department to get their perspective on the task you 're being asked to do . It may very well be something very useful for your career , even though at first blush it seems like busywork . To bring this back to your immediate question , the only research you need to do is the research upon which your funding is based . If this does not fall into that category , you are under no obligation to do the requested project . However , I strongly recommend you consider the benefit that performing this research may provide in the long run ; most likely , it 's something that will in some way or other make you a more skilled ( and marketable ) researcher when you 're done .
Aeismail makes an important point about location : what 's standard in Germany differs from what 's standard in the US . In a US context , I would strongly recommend against listing things like declined graduate fellowships . It will look strange , and even beyond that it can work to your disadvantage : everybody will already assume you declined several attractive offers , so giving an explicit list will do nothing but focus attention on what is n't on the list . ( If the list of declined offers is short , readers will be disappointed , and if it 's long , they 'll spend more time speculating about what 's missing than being impressed . ) The only time I 'd recommend highlighting this sort of information is if for some reason you had to turn down a vastly more prestigious offer than the one you accepted . For example , maybe you were offered a tenure-track job at a top department , but ended up working as an adjunct in the middle of nowhere so you could take care of a relative . You should then make sure everybody knows this the next time you are able to apply for jobs . However , you should be very careful when doing this , because if the prestige difference is n't absolutely universally acknowledged , then you run the risk of offending people who feel you are unfairly denigrating a perfectly fine career path .
end question
start question
What is the " power " a PhD advisor has over their advisees ?
In many programs , the advisor signs off on the PhD student 's thesis . If the advisor does n't approve the thesis , it is difficult to impossible for the student to graduate and earn the PhD . In many programs , the advisor is responsible for securing funding for their PhD students . If the advisor withdraws funding that the student was expecting , the student might not have another source of financial support . Advisors are responsible for training and mentoring their PhD students , which is a major part of the PhD . If an advisor withholds that training , their PhD student might not become a successful researcher without it . In general , advisors interact closely with their PhD students . If these interactions are unpleasant or abusive , the workplace becomes very , very uncomfortable . Faculty tend to have a lot more influence in an academic department than their PhD students do . An advisor can potentially make things difficult for their PhD student with other faculty in the department . In many cases , on applying for jobs after a PhD , a student is expected to have a recommendation from their PhD advisor . Without it , it can be much more difficult to find a job . Also see : <URL> and <URL>
As far as I 'm aware , giving gifts to your PhD adviser upon completion in the US is not an obligatory ritual , as compared to Christmas gift exchange in families , or Mother 's Day cards and flowers , which are obligatory rituals . Before you decide to give a gift and choose one , you should consider your adviser 's personality , value system , relationship style , and cultural background . Does this adviser frequently give and receive gifts from other faculty members ? From other students ? Does he/she display many gifts or honors in the office ? If so , examine the symbolic nature of these gifts . Are they personal to him/her ? Are they status oriented ? Do they reflect or signify certain values or identity ? Following this line of inquiry is fruitful on two levels . First , what ever you give him will certainly show that your knowledge and appreciation of him/her as a unique person . Everyone likes to be valued for their unique , special qualities and " quirks " . Second , you will be giving something that has significance in the context of your relationship with him/her , not something that is generic . My personal opinion is that the best gift a PhD student can give their adviser is to be a great student , to be someone who is easy to advise , to be someone who heeds the advice , to be someone who stimulates the adviser intellectually , and , above all , finishes the PhD program on time ( or at least expeditiously ) . You can also express in words what your adviser means to you in your acknowledgements section of your dissertation . You can also offer public thanks at the dissertation defense . If you think a gift is warranted above and beyond this , then I 'd lean toward something that has low economic value but very high symbolic value in the context of the adviser as a unique person and your unique relationship with him/her .
The format used to be the only possibility for including graphics in ( La ) TeX. . Now the more modern alternative is using , which also supports other more common graphic formats natively ( such as pdf ) . Most journals have outdated LaTeX processing pipelines , so they are still using eps . ( And , frankly , they have little incentive to get more modern , since they are in a strong oligopoly position . )
Perhaps the best approach would be to ask leading questions that helps the lecturer head in the right direction . Or , offer an answer to a question that was n't going well . I 've taught classes ( especially ones that use complex libraries , such as parts of a game engine , that I was n't a seasoned expert with ) , and have had students who had more experience with a specific topic chime in to the discussion with details I did n't know . It was great . I 've also had students who were aggressive and conveyed arrogance and had them derail the class by setting up a me vs them dynamic . Not so great . The most important thing is classroom dynamics : let the lecturer retain control ( ie . facilitate the discussion ) but you actively participate . The lecturer should be there to create a learning environment , not bestow knowledge on the class . You can make it clear you know the topic , and let them have you participate as much as they are comfortable . Asking to " take over " would not go over well ; offering your knowledge on bits and pieces and nudging the lecturer in the right direction through questions would be better .
I am in this exact situation right now since I 'm on sabbatical and ( some of ) my students are back in my home institution . Unlike your advisor though , I 'm quite comfortable with skype/G + and use them regularly . But to keep track of progress , I use a flavor of that people in my department run ( I also use and directly ) . As long as your advisor is comfortable using version control systems , and can set up their account for automatic emails when you commit something , it 's easy for you to keep them updated and for them to see updates you 've made . I also make sure to have an file in reverse chronological order to keep track of what we 've been working on and what progress has been made since our last meeting . One of the advantage of version control systems like git/svn/hg is that it 's relatively easy to see what has changed since the last commit , or since 5 commits ago , which will help your advisor . Although if they do n't like video chatting or replying to email , I do wonder if they 're technically savvy enough to use git :)
Warning : personal opinion . I view conferences that regularly shift submission deadlines as a little suspect . You 're right that this happens in CS conferences , and it soon becomes pointless because everyone expects the extension ( " <URL> " ) . But your estimate of 80 % is rather off . Almost none of the ( many ) conferences I submit to have deadline extensions for submission of the full paper . And do n't underestimate the level of pleading that goes on . People will always ask for an extension if they have even a smidgen of hope that the pleading will work . It 's only when a conference takes a firm stand for many years that people stop asking .
During academic job applications , I did not hear back at all from at least two places ( in the UK ) , so I would not assume you will hear back . On the other hand , there was also the situation where I had not heard back from one of my top choices so I contacted them and they told me that someone was supposed to have contacted me two weeks earlier but somehow did n't . It was n't good news , but I had been stalling on agreeing to another position so ultimately it was helpful to just ask , politely obviously . I really do n't think it would hurt your situation , and as others have mentioned , may even help it .
The true anonymity of " anonymous evaluations " is a key issue ( in academia and also in the workplace ) . If you say an evaluation is anonymous , can you later take them to task for something they wrote that you regard as problematic ? This happened at my university a few years back . Student course evaluations are done electronically now , and they are said to be anonymous . However , one student " contributed " an anonymous evaluation which criticized their instructor for their sexual orientation . The university IT staff got involved , did in fact trace the evaluation back to the student , and the student was prosecuted for it . In particular , IIRC their name was made public ( I read about this in the university paper ! ) and they may have had to write a letter of apology . This is a good problem for an ethics class : should the university have done this ? After reflecting about it for a while , my feeling is that the university did behave unethically : not by tracking down a comment that violates rules of university conduct ( not to mention the rules and conventions of civilized society about treatment of minority ) , but by not being open with the students that the anonymity in the evaluations was meant as a policy decision , not a factual description of the way the technology is implemented . They could have designed the system so that university IT staff would have no way -- or at least , no standard , built-in way -- of tracking it back to its origin . Anyway : yes , it is probably technically possible that the evaluation can be traced back to you . The moral of the above story is that unless you specifically know and trust the mechanisms that prevent that , you should regard the anonymity as being at the level of policy -- i.e. , you are honorbound not to act on the knowledge of the identity -- rather than a true lack of knowledge of the writer 's identity . As for the rest , you ask : Do you think I will lose my job over it ? Maybe another dumb question , but I 'm stressing right now . That does n't sound like a dumb question for you . However , in my opinion it 's " a dumb question " ( rather , an unfruitful one ) to ask us . We do n't know : Who you are , and what are the conditions of your employment . Where you work , and who your colleagues are . What you wrote . Without this information , our best guess at the answer is nowhere near as good as yours . I understand that because of your closeness to the situation and reasonable anxiety , it may be hard for you to view objectively . I suggest that you confide in someone you can trust and who is closer to the situation . @Trevor Wilson asked : Was it this case : nytimes.com/2008/01/20/magazine/20wwln-ethicist-t.html ? If so , it sounds like the evaluation was handwritten . Nice find ! I checked it out a bit , and ... I think it is likely that this is the same case , and that it was long enough ago ( longer than I thought ) that I am not quite remembering the particulars . It is also interesting that this made " Ask an Ethicist " ... and the Ethicist said very much what I said above . Adding to the irony , I suppose I am now criticizing my university a bit by weighing in on this . I think they can take it .
TL ; DR : in France you have to find first the supervisor , then you apply for a funding . If you have a funding of your own , you have to find a supervisor to be admitted . In both cases : you need the supervisor first . There is various things to know when you apply for a PhD in France : It is forbidden to be a PhD without having funding . In France a PhD student is considered both as a student and an employee . The funding can be a state funding , an industrial funding , a funding on a research contract ( either from a national funding agency or a company ) , or you can also do your PhD while working elsewhere ( some teachers in secondary schools are doing their PhD this way ) . Industrial funding and research contract are basically given to the supervisor , who can choose alone amongst all candidates . So for PhD with those fundings you have to contact directly the targeted supervisors . State funding is given by a committee to a bundle ( candidate , subject ) , this means that a professor , with a subject , has to find a candidate and then propose to the committe this candidate on his subject . Then the candidate is on his own : ( s ) he will generally have to send an application letter , with a reference letter from the supervisor , and if ( s ) he is shortlisted , ( s ) he will have to make a short presentation ( either on location or using skype or a similar service ) . Last case : you are funded on your own ( job , external funding for foreigners ) . Even in this case , the procedure is that you find the supervisor , then you apply .
Allow me to hypothesize a different tack from most of the other answers : Simply do n't engage in this issue at all . As my mentor said once , " You constantly get institutional demands for some action , in some cases it 's best to ignore them , and you 'll find that many just go away . " This request is so incredibly unethical , and also so completely orthogonal to your responsibilities as a graduate student , that it 's hard for me to imagine your advisor spending time on tracking you down and taking revenge over it . If you think you might receive more pressure later on ( e.g. , I 've sadly cracked under such circumstances ) , go ahead and cast the online vote in the privacy of your own home , and then later on say , " Oh sorry , I got a notification and cast the vote immediately . " The request is so inflammatory that I do n't see any use to " politely having an open discussion with your advisor " . I think that only opens the door for defensiveness and retaliation . As wildly unacceptable as it is , I do n't see it as being a good use of your time tracking down where to lodge a complaint over this matter ( which your advisor seems canny enough to avoid documenting except verbally , so it would be just your word against his , according to comments above ) . At least consider the null action as a possibility .
Note that both professors have their European degree from Bocconi . Double degrees appear to be a Bocconi ( and some other universities ' ) special . For the MSc level , it 's explicitly mentioned on their web page as a highly selective option ; see , e.g. , <URL> . But you also find an economics PhD program <URL> participating in a partner university 's course work and studies , the AEEP . It is not explicitly mentioned that you 'll get two PhDs - and you probably wo n't on a general basis - , but if you get close to a professor abroad during your year , and start your research with them , it does n't seem a stretch to think you can negotiate two . Note that one of the current partner institutions is Northwestern , as in one of the examples you linked , while the other ( Berkeley ) is not mentioned . This might be due to changes in times , or simply to the professors linked not having been part of this particular program . But as Bocconi is apparently very active in these international cooperations , it seems highly likely that both were part of one of them . The bottom line is that , in my opinion , it will be very unlikely that you 'll find a U.S. institution at which you can get a second PhD in only one year if you have n't been part of such a program , where the second degree is a natural and fairly minor extension of your work predominantly in Europe .
About your questions : 1 ) If you want you can link the Wikipedia article or make a small summary explaining your thoughts , usually Professors or researchers do not have too much time to read long emails ; so try to keep it up simply 2 ) explained before 3 ) It is nothing bad that you point to the other papers of consequence Z , if he knows about them he will tell it straightforward In conclusion , do not feel bad that you did not have any formal education . Just address to the researcher in a respectful manner and tell him/her that you are interested about his job . You do not need to send your CV or a motivation letter just for asking something , but beware , you can or you can not get an answer ( usually depends how much interested of free time the researcher you are appointing has ) Good luck !
Unfortunately the system in the UK is not uniform . You will really have to read each individual department 's web site to know how to apply . There are , for example , Centres for Doctoral Training <URL> which you apply to like a US graduate program . I do n't know if there is a good one that covers stochastic analysis but it seems likely . It sounds like the list you give is for people who want to apply for a specific supervisor . For this route , your main issue will be funding as there is very little funding for non-UK students these days . This will also vary wildly between different universities . There may be deadlines which you have missed already if you want to start in 2015 . However , simply for being accepted by a supervisor without funding the list you gave is fine . Overall , read each department 's web site on their PhD programmes , do n't forget to look for any relevant Centres for Doctoral Training and good luck .
It 's unethical to include the name of a collaborator who contributed nothing to a particular paper as a co-author . However , as you said , it can be difficult to confront your advisor about including someone else as a co-author . If you are the person responsible for submitting the manuscript to the journal , one alternative you might have available is to ask your advisor is to have an explicit assignment of duties in the cover letter for your paper . ( " Author A did activities Q , R , and S , while author B did T and U , etc. " ) The tasks of each author would be provided in such a manner -- and in principle it would be hard to justify the inclusion of someone unqualified to be a co-author when you have to " certify " it to the journal , rather than just providing a generic statement of authorship . If the advisor is unwilling to come up with such statements , then you could make the argument that since it 's typically a requirement of journal submissions nowadays , that you 're uncomfortable including an author whose contributions ca n't be clearly delineated .
Ideally , you use the bathroom before lecturing which should prevent you from needing the bathroom during the lecuture . In cases where you are unwell , I find it best to let the class know ahead of time to tell them you are unwell and might need to suddenly excuse yourself , but that you will be back . Regardless of if you have told the students in advance , if you must excuse yourself , do it politely and tell them you will be back in a few moments .
I suspect the advisor is relative young and probably not fully even aware of the problem . Her perception of events may be completely different . She may feel that she contributed the essential part of the idea to make it valuable . She may not even remember that the idea came from you originally . But that does not mean that she should n't be corrected and give credit to you . This can probably be solved by communicating with her , or by communicating with someone more senior , who could have a talk with her . Are there any annual progress meetings where this could be done ? Not dealing with the problem will only exacerbate it .
It is a thesis . From what you 've written , your hypothesis is that you can tailor the [ information-systems ] management theory for it to be useful under economic constraints to a real specific problem You might also be doing exploratory research , or blue-skies research , where you do n't start with a research question , you start with a direction , subject or area , and go wandering off looking for interesting problems .
There are quite a few issues to be careful about when considering a recommendation letter from an employer . Some examples : Make sure they understand the culture of academic recommendation letters . In industry , lots of the time recommendations are more-or-less a token statement that someone worked for you and did n't cause any issues . Academic recommendation letters are very different , so make sure they have an idea of what kind of letter to write . What exactly is the background of your letter writer ? This is a bigger issue with PhD ( or research-based masters ) recommendations , but if your recommender does n't have the background or credentials to understand what it takes to become a successful researcher or academic , then it 's unlikely that they will be able to speak intelligently about whether you have those traits . How common are industry to graduate school moves in your field ? In a field like mathematics or physics , my guess is that most candidates do not have significant work experience and any work experience is usually far removed from the subject material . In a field like that , the people evaluating your profile are more likely to discount an industry recommendation , especially if it comes from a non-PhD , non-researcher . On the other hand , fields like business or engineering have many more applicants from industry and are probably used to seeing those recommendation letters , so it is unlikely to put you at a significant disadvantage . How well are your other bases covered and what are your alternatives ? If you have recommendation letters that already focus on your undergraduate classes and research , then it may be more valuable to have a letter describing traits you exhibited in the workplace than another " he got an A in my class " letter . In general , an employer 's letter is never going to be as good as a great letter from an active researcher that you worked closely with . But most applicants do n't have three of those on hand . Can a letter from an employer be useful ? Definitely . Given the alternatives , is it the optimal decision for you ? It 's possible , but that depends on a lot of factors that you should probably spend some time thinking about .
Have they had to pay more on average in salaries because private sector competitors ( including private universities ) now know exactly how much to offer someone to entice them ? I 've occasionally heard of these lists being used to identify woefully underpaid faculty members who might therefore be disgruntled and easier to recruit . However , I do n't think this has had a substantial effect overall on salaries at public universities . Most faculty members do n't inspire bidding wars between universities , and recruitment is based on many other factors beyond just salary . For context , note that average salaries vary substantially between universities , and these differences are sometimes pretty widely discussed in the community . Even in the absence of data on individuals , that 's potentially useful information for recruitment . However , there seems to be no trend towards salaries evening out . Instead , they tend to end up balanced with factors like desirability of location . Have they found it more difficult to recruit people from the private sector ( including private universities ) who might not want their financial details to be public ? Not to a noticeable extent , at least for ordinary faculty positions . This could be more of a factor for mid-level administrators , whose salaries might come under greater scrutiny . ( By contrast , the salaries of top administrators are public information for every non-profit university in the U.S. , public or private , because they must be reported on IRS Form 990 . ) Have there been any other negative or positive side effects ? Transparency about salaries has a weird mixture of effects . On the one hand , it makes the overall patterns clearer , and anyone can judge for themselves whether the results are fair . For example , it 's easy to gather data on whether women are being paid less , whether there 's salary compression or inversion , whether different people receive comparable salary increases upon achieving tenure , etc. . I do n't know of any formal studies ( which could be interesting ) , but there 's at least a fairly widespread belief that this transparency helps cut down on abuses . On the other hand , it can also increase disgruntlement . The actual salaries are almost guaranteed not to align perfectly with what would seem just to any given person ( because of course different people have different visions of what would be appropriate ) . I 've certainly looked on occasion at salary lists and wondered why on earth X was being paid 15 % more than Y , and I once talked with a friend who had discovered that he was Y in such a case .
One minor counterpoint to @adipro 's answer : rather than age of the professor , consider where they stand in their professional career . Age aside , you want to make sure that they 're still highly active in the research community . I made the mistake of being what turned out to be my advisor 's last graduate student ; not a good position to be in . To present the case more generally : While all the positive points listed by @adipro were are true of someone close to retirement , they may simply might not care as much about things you care about . Specifically : They have no pressure to publish , and consequently , your need to publish does n't scratch any itch of theirs Since they 're close to retiring , they wo n't want to enter extensive collaborations , as they will likely be gone before the work is done . ( This is referring to long , multi-year projects , not smaller stuff . ) Their interest in grant-writing will be far less than yours , for the same reason as the preceding point ; multi-year research efforts will likely complete after they 're gone . When researching potential advisors , talk to their graduate students about the number of grants they 've applied for in the past two years , the number of new students they 've taken on , the number of new collaborations they 've started , and the like . You want to make sure they 're not winding things down , as that means they 'll be less interested in things you care about , such as creating new relationships , writing more papers , and finding new grants .
end question
start question
Is there a standard dictionary for referencing English words ?
<URL> is the online version of the full , official Oxford English Dictionary . Requires a subscription ( institutional or personal ) to access . This is the site you should use whenever possible . <URL> is an ad-supported version with some features cut . Avoid if you have subscription access to the full site ( as any university should ) . <URL> is , clearly , for learners of the English language . Use it as a guide for learning , sure - but not as a guide for writing papers . The OED is the English dictionary to use . Other dictionaries are probably fine in all but the weirdest corner cases , but it helps to have some standardization . Your journal probably specifies its own preferences in this regard . Every publisher 's " guide for authors " that I have seen tells you to defer to the OED . Sometimes you 'll see specific instructions to use either British or American spellings , and you may specifically be told how to spell words that do n't have a British or American " standard " spelling , such as parametrize .
The U.S. Department of Energy has a system of user facilities . Access to these facilities requires an application and scheduling . Access is typically free . At least some of these facilities reach 100 % utilization . Each tool in each facility may have its own rules . These are often listed on websites . Facilities are incentivized to reach their utilization targets with funding . Example : <URL>
I am expanding my comments into an answer as requested by jakebeal . It is a basic tenet of academia that the identity , geographical location , or institutional affiliation ( or lack thereof ) of a researcher should not matter when it comes to publishing their results ; all that matters is that the results are of good quality and of interest to the research community . According to this ideal , academic research is an enterprise open to anyone , anywhere . So , yes , your goal of performing independent research is a noble one and certainly has value , both to the community and to your own professional prospects . However , it is important to stress that this value will be created primarily if and when you are able to create research that 's good enough to be publishable in a peer-reviewed journal , and not before . If you are serious about being an independent researcher ( or any kind of researcher , really ) , publishing your results should therefore be your goal . In the comments you point out your belief that journals rarely publish the writings of independent researchers . I agree that that is very probably true , but one should be careful not to draw the wrong conclusion here . It is not so much that journals are snobbish and elitist and simply refuse to seriously consider papers from an author with no institutional affiliation ( although , to be sure , one can not entirely discount a small and mostly unintended psychological bias making it marginally more difficult for an independent researcher to get their work accepted ) . Rather , the main reason is that independent researchers face multiple obstacles to creating good work in the first place . Those obstacles include : Independent researchers do n't have a lot of contact with other researchers from the community who can tell them about the state of their field and give them ideas for good research problems to work on . Independent researchers usually do n't have anyone to criticize their ideas and give them feedback . Such feedback can be quite crucial to making progress in one 's research . Due to their lack of contact with their discipline , independent researchers often do n't have a chance to become well-versed in the terminology of their field and in the cultural norms of how research in their field is typically presented . They may develop good research ideas but do so in an insular fashion using their own private language , terminology and presentation style , which makes it much harder for them to communicate their ideas to others . Importantly , independent researchers are not paid by anyone to do research , which usually means that they have to spend most of their time and creative energy working a " normal " job . This puts them at a significant competitive disadvantage compared to non-independent researchers . Let me now get to your question . Even if you never publish your results , I still think there is value for you to try to work on some research problems in your spare time . Aside from the fact that research can be a lot of fun , it will certainly develop your intellect and probably help you develop professional skills that will come in handy at one point or another , whether you continue to pursue a doctorate or end up in an industry job . However , as far as things that you can put on your resume are concerned , I do n't think private research writings that you wrote for your own amusement but are not of good enough quality to be published in a journal , or at least as a conference poster or on a reasonably good quality online blog , will be of much value on a resume .
It would depend on what your field of work is . But heres a nifty little list that I keep an eye on ( I am looking for a postdoctoral position in academia / research and these websites are quite helpful to me ) <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> There are a few websites suggested in the answers below/above my response to this question and they are quite nice too ! Besides that you probably have a general idea as to what you 'd want to work as / work for . You could perhaps target a bunch of universities and faculty members for prospective positions ? Good luck !
I spoke recently with someone who is building such a website/community , and I doubt they will mind me giving a brief overview of how they intend it to work . Basically there are 2 issues that are difficult to overcome - assuming all the technological issues are minor : Skepticism Slander Skepticism in the sense of ' Oh , I see this PI has a bad review from 2001 , but who 's to say that will happen to me . Maybe this one student is an odd-ball ' . It also has parallels with the <URL> problem . And we see this a lot on academia.stackexchange too . We only ever hear 1 side of the story , and that story is rarely impartial . You know , occasionally people like to rant . People often omit the times they made mistakes . It 's human nature . And so any website of this nature has to somehow overcome this issue of he-said-she-said , and theres simply no technological device we can implement to get around this . Particularly if you allow anonymous submissions . The second , slander , is what I believe most people in the pubpeer.com debate are worried about . A deliberate attempt to hurt someone 's reputation under the flag of mob-justice . Nitpicking and emotive words , but no real substance , etc. . I actually only found out about pubpeer a week or so ago when a colleague at a party showed it to me , and I was shocked to see people I respect being picked apart on there for silly little things . Still , those anonymous criticisms do have some validity , and the concept of post-publication peer review is something I deeply agree with . I think only time will tell what impact sites like pubpeer will have on science . For a PI-review site , it could have disastrous consequences . Potentially legal consequences . The website/community I referred to up top seemed to have spent a considerable amount of time fleshing out all the technological methods that could help here , and in the end i 'm told they settled on the fairly low-tech idea for Skype-based interviews , potentially on a weekly release schedule . The idea is to mainly cater for people who hate their PhD and feel relief knowing they 're not the only ones going through hell . So these Skype interviews generally are with post-docs or no-docs who had a bad experience , and they talk about what the end result was , what they 'd do differently , if they still feel they were treated unfairly many years down the line ( I watched 3 interviews and they were all totally different , so i 'm finding it difficult to generalise here ) . But the big issue for the team putting all this together is finding PhD/post-docs/no-docs who are OK with talking about their experiences . They offered to interview me but I turned them down because , frankly , i 'm not that brave . They offered to pixilate my face , but even so ... as disappointed as I am with my treatment during my PhD , there 's no one specific person that really let me down . It was a system of failures , I think , and one that is unlikely to happen again . So that particular PI-review project would n't really help me or people like me .
It 's really a judgment call ... some people consider that more references is good , because it gives the reader a wider perspective into the issue , and some people consider it a bad practice ( in old times because it wasted paper , but nowadays mainly because it obscures the more valuable information inside a long wall of text ) . I have , as a reviewer , sometimes asked authors to cut down on the number of references , so it is certainly an acceptable practice . Here are some factors you may consider when making the decision : Does each individual reference bring something to the paper , i.e. is used to back up a fact , idea , or to give credit for a specific ( and relevant ) new idea that it introduced ? Are references cited in block ? I tend to consider it is very bad practice : A series of recent experiments have shown systematically that current human-powered aircrafts are not suitable for mass transportation [ refs . 9 -- 21 ] Each paper ( or group of two or three papers , at the very most ) should be used with regards to a specific point in the discussion . Somewhat disguised form of the earlier : are long lists of claims and references justified ? Sometimes many citations are used as " examples " , where a few would suffice . Could some of the citations be replaced by one or two reviews on the topic ? Are the work cited really the seminal work on each topic/idea/experiment , or are there also less " worthy " works cited ? Finally , it is true that there are some unethical practices that can lead to inflated number of citations . Excessive self-citation is certainly one , but there are others . For example , some authors cite very widely papers from all groups in their field , even when it is not really warranted , in an effort to help their chances at peer review : the idea is that the reviewer is less likely to be harsh to a manuscript that cites 5 of her own papers . And in conclusion , if you believe that self-citation was the motivation , there is nothing wrong with reporting your doubts to the editor .
As others have said , not every ( old ) article has a DOI or a URL . However , in mathematics every article since 1940 has an MR number which uniquely identifies it . So go to <URL> and look up this article . I just did , it has MR number MR0844292 . The bibliographical information on mathscinet ( like the transliteration of the author 's name ) would also be considered the " canonical information " .
I recommend you go for a Masters degree first . Some schools admit Masters students without GRE . While doing your masters , you can prepare for GRE and take courses that would eventually count for your prospective PhD degree which you are intending for . This will benefit you getting into a good PhD school which otherwise may be very difficult to get in .
Your girlfriend could write an independent literature review in the same area that Elizabeth is working . She could publish this and then Elizabeth could use it as a helper with her own literature review . It 's still in a gray area , but it 's less unethical than being hired to write someone 's thesis . Rose would get a publication out of it and Elizabeth would have a citable guide for her thesis 's literature review .
In the US , the usual title for such a position is Adjunct Professor . See <URL>
I use <URL> which in itself is a system for handling references , it comes as both a plugin to Firefox and as standalone . I use the standalone version to extract reference information from pdf and then export to , in my case , BibTeX format . There are possibilities to export to other formats as well .
First , you need to plan expenditures to make sure you do n't end up with too much money at the end of the project . If you have grants , you 're essentially running a small business . It 's your job and responsibility to have a budget , plan with and for it , and to track expenditures . If , however , for reasons that may not have been under your control , you end up with unspent money at the end of the grant period , you can often ask funding agencies to give you an extension of the project . For example , the National Science Foundation pretty regularly provides a one-year no-cost extension on " normal " grants . To get a second year , however , you probably need to have good reasons , or they will take the money back .
Primarily , you should really try to find out what time zone a conference uses rather than assume a specific one . As ff524 says , even if it is not on the web site , the submission site will often tell you . That being said , at least in my discipline , there are two conventions that are common : Local time at the conference location AOE ( anywhere on earth ) , more formally known as <URL> . The latter is probably the more common one . ( Howland Island time is called " Anywhere on Earth " because it is the last time zone . That is , if you say that a deadline is friday , 24:00 AOE , the real deadline will nowhere be earlier than friday , 24:00 , reducing the possibility of feel-bad moments when paper writers forgot about time zones and assumed their own time zone . )
First of , you are absolutely asking the right question ( " what can I do to make a good relationship ? " ) . The answer depends a bit on the preferences of your advisor - what works for some may not work for others . Here are a few things you could think about : You say you work from home . This automatically decouples you from the lab and your advisor . Have you thought whether it would be possible to work in the lab ( if they have room for you ) for , for instance , two days a week ? This would also help make sure that you stay on the track your advisor wants your research to go , see also Nicholas ' answer . You say you work mainly with some of his PhD students . Try to bond and network with the PhD students you like , and impress them with your technical aptitude and motivation . Thinking back on my PhD advisor , the only master students he really remembered were the ones that his PhD students were constantly praising in their meetings with him . See if there is a chance to publish something ( with your advisor ) in the context of your master 's thesis . This not only shows motivation , but also has an immediate benefit for your advisor . During paper writing , you will also automatically have a number of meetings with your advisor . If you are interested in doing a PhD , indicate this to your advisor and ask for feedback . I have the impression that many professors take significantly more interest in master students that want to stay on the academic path than in those that are about to leave to industry .
I know of exactly one peer-reviewed research paper with no references at all . Mark H. Overmars and Emo Welzl . <URL> . Proceedings of the [ First Annual ] Symposium on Computational Geometry , 316 -- 321 , 1985 . Here is a screenshot of the references section : <URL> According to <URL> , this paper has been cited 29 times . So yes , it is possible , for the right value of " ground-breaking " , but extremely rare .
As far as I 'm aware there is no obligation to provide a translation of a published paper from one language to another . I think it would be rude to ask for a translation of a paper . However , it would generally be fine to enquire as to whether such a translation exists , or whether similar work has been published in English . More broadly , it may be in the author 's interests to provide an English translation in order to increase the impact of his or her work . If the work is really important to you , you could always pay for a translation . At the extreme end , perhaps where there are a large number of important works in a particular language , you may even want to learn the language .
As a non-native English speaker myself , I 've faced similar situations during my PhD . Some pros/cons of writing not in English , and then translating . Pros : If you 're working with people who do n't speak English very well , it can make it easier for them to write in their native language first , so that they can focus on explaining the idea , rather than trying to find a correct vocabulary . You might be able to publish the work twice : once for a Chinese-speaking conference ( or journal ) and another time in English . If you plan to have this paper read by undergraduate students later on , then it might be easier for them to understand it if it 's in their native language . Cons : This is a waste of time , since you 're basically working on the same thing twice . Translating is hard , in general , and speaking two languages does not necessarily make you a good translator . In practice , it might give a structure , but you might have to rewrite entirely each paragraph . If you 're working with people who aim at staying in academia , they they need to be able to write directly in English . It 's hard in the beginning , but it gets much easier with time and practice . It could make complicated any external collaboration ( I 've been collaborating with some people who write their papers in English , but their comments and ideas in another language , it was really frustrating ) . It 's probably a subjective perception , but I think that a paper is not only a technical idea , it should also be an interesting piece of work to read . It might be specific to CS ( I do n't have the same feeling when talking with people in maths ) , but I feel that we 're already reading A LOT of papers ( probably due to the multiplication of conferences/journals in CS ) , and at some point , it becomes harder to focus on those that are not pleasant to read . The best way to make your paper pleasant to read is to think it in English from the beginning . Note that in the Cons , I assumed that you would translate the paper yourselves , and that you 're not particularly trained for translating technical documents . Of course , that would be quite different if you were to delegate the translation to some professionals .
I suppose some senior people may publish exclusively on arXiv but they are a minority and I ca n't think of any examples right now . Publishing in mathematics takes a long time . Journal backlogs of multiple years are common enough that if you wait for your paper to appear in print it is already old . This is less of a problem in the other subjects that arXiv covers but still ... So what does publishing on arXiv get the author ? Primarily it gives the paper a time stamp and makes it publicly available . Putting up a paper is fast , it only takes a few minutes and it gives a reference number so that you can cite it in a talk or in a paper . Normally you would have to wait until you get page numbers from a journal . And if you are giving a talk on your paper when you have just finished the work that might still be years in the future . One interesting feature of publishing on arXiv is that you can write small notes and put those up . You can write the " user 's guide " version of a paper . You can post a supplement to a paper that would n't be publishable on its own . Ultimately what it all boils down to is that people post documents to arXiv that they want other people to see and hopefully read . As for prestige , no . There really is n't any as far as I know .
A month after asking this question I randomly stumbled onto the type of solution which I was originally seeking -- open-market subscription based access to multiple journals and full-text article links from sources such as Google Scholar , PubMed , EconLit , etc. . While searching for full text access to an article on Manufactured Environmental Toxins in umbilical cords I noticed that one of the full text options was through a service called : <URL> It claims to be the " Spotify of Academic articles " ( <URL> is a popular Internet radio app that lets you download and play music at will if you subscribe ) . Here is a <URL> from Ohio State 's TechTip a la 2009 . It 's a $ 40/mo subscription plan for non-students like the institutional access you get within academia . I 'm on a 2-week trial of it now . Of course , I 'm still going to continue to make use of many of the other good suggestions and I 'm on the lookout for other services like this to select from . USE WITH ADDITIONAL SOLUTIONS In addition to the service I found , I 'm taking advantage of several other solutions offered . Even with the subscription-based service there are many papers and journals to which I do not have access and the follow suggestions remain vital : Many papers are freely available on authors ' websites , and pre-print servers ( use search engine to find those ) . Write to the authors , asking for copies . Majority of academics are happy when their work is read , and will send you a copy . Your public library might subscribe to more than you suspect . Check it out . Many institutions grant library privileges to alumni , which might include remote access to the university 's online subscriptions . You might get in touch with the librarian at your alma mater and ask if they offer such a thing . ( In some cases you might be required to join the alumni association and pay dues , but this would probably be on the order of US$ 10 - $ 100 per year . ) Many universities open their libraries to the public . If you live near any university or college that has appropriate subscriptions , you may be able to just walk into their library , sit down at a computer , and download the articles you want . Then just put them on a USB drive , upload them to a cloud storage account , or email them to yourself . For older articles that are n't online , the library may have them in bound volumes ; they may not let you check them out , but you can photocopy or scan any article you want . LIMITATIONS OF THIS SOLUTION The subscription-based service is n't a perfect solution . <URL> points out that , unlike institutional access , you do not have the right to print or download papers . It 's " read-only " access . The selection of journals is quite large , but still limited . My feeling is that it directly provides access to about the same selection you 'd have with most universities , but unlike universities there 's no inter-library loan or other work-around for when you do not have access . AFTERWORD As I use this solution more over the course of the next few days I 'll update this solution with further limitations and I 'll better integrate it with the other useful solutions which have been posted . I will also take a suggestion from the comments to make this a Community Wiki solution . Finally , I will also be on the look-out for any competing services like DeepDyve . Please update this solution if you know of any , so that we 're not inadvertantly providing an advertisement for one arbitrary commercial service .
Unfortunately the name of the reference style is in general Journal X 's style . Even journals that claim to stick to a standard style ( e.g. , APA , MLA , Chicago ) often throw in little twists . In general I find that if you get close , journals are pretty forgiving and will copy edit you to the correct style . Basically you want your in text citations to follow either an author-number ( Vancouver ) or author-date ( Harvard ) style . As for the list of citations , just make sure it has all the information that the journal uses ( e.g. , DOI if the journal uses it ) .
end question
start question
Translation of academic papers from Japanese ?
The American Mathematical Society 's publishing arm puts out the series <URL> . A significant portion of the series ( for reasons beyond me ) are translations from Japanese language originals . Getting in touch with the editors of that series may be a good place to get started .
There is nothing wrong with the word " via , " and in fact I personally have a weakness for it : sometimes it just feels more elegant and specific than alternatives like " through " or " by means of . " I also , however , have a weakness for a lot of somewhat archaic phrases , due to spending a lot of my childhood reading old books . The general principle which I think academic writing should subscribe to is Orwell 's notion of " transparent prose , " in which the words are as clear as a window , letting one through to the ideas with minimal obstruction . Using too many unusual words , such as a lot of " via " and " thus " can be distracting , particularly for an international audience . Sometimes , though , a word is simply fit and elegant in its context , and there is no reason to avoid using it .
I highly recommend a software to manage this like Endnote , Zotero , or Mendeley . The last two are free if your library is small enough ( depends on the size of the PDFs ) . That will make things much easier by cleaning up the metadata and helping you use search tools to find the right papers . In each of these software , you can also sort the papers around . The key is that within these software , you can put a paper into multiple folders/categories/groups / whatever else they call it . I use this liberally . Note that the software will keep the reference as one reference with multiple links , and so if you do things like annotate or add notes to the file they will be visible at all locations where you can find the paper . Before doing anything make sure the metadata is all correct . You can always last resort with using the search bar if it is . First put each paper into a field . So I would make a folder like breast cancer , and then have a subcategory like metastasis if I have a bunch of papers specifically on that subtopic . Finding odd papers reduces to remembering what subtopic it 's from , and finding that subtopic folder within the right topic . If a paper works in multiple different places , I put it in each place . Then add the papers to project folders . I make a master folder for each project , and subfolders for different parts of the project , put the appropriate references . The software can now automatically generate a file with all of the references for the paper which helps with citing . Using this method , you can always dive down into a folder/subfolder that makes sense , either by project or by field , then sort by title/author/year / etc ( and easily switch between these ) , or use the search in the subfolder , and always quickly find what you need . But ... you will need to take a day or two to set this up . That 's a long and tedious task , but definitely worth it . Then I usually just do a minor fix up for new additions every few months to keep it tidy .
One solution to <URL> is <URL> ( open source , BSD license ) , which is a Python module that implements a querier and parser for Google Scholar 's output . Its classes can be used independently , but it can also be invoked as a command-line tool . Amongst other things , it can fetch the number of citations of an article .
The " Dexa Conference " was set up at the TU Wien using ConfDriver . The <URL> notes that " In case of difficulties please contact confdriver@ifs.tuwien.ac.at " . Maybe you should give that a try . BTW , ironically one of the <URL> was about " Defence against Spam in Electronic Communication " .
There is often a substantial delay between when the author finishes a paper and when the paper is actually published . The author may not be totally aware of the publishing date . This is why the authors do not include the date . The date is generally found in/on the book/proceedings that the paper is published in . This is the date that should be used for referencing a paper .
My own busy-person email triage has three tiers : No response needed = near-zero cost Minimal response needed = minimal cost Response with significant thought and care needed = significant context-switching cost A brief " thank you " email would go into category # 1 : no bother or burden , but noticed and appreciated all the same . In other words , send the email : it 's not a significant nuisance , and it 's nice to be appreciated .
I disagree with the assumption that top journals with slow turnaround times are more highly regarded than top conferences with quicker turnaround times . In most ( all ? ) areas of computer science , the most competitive conferences are at least as highly regarded as the top journals . It is also not unusual for longer versions of conference papers to later be submitted to journals . As David Patterson ( UC Berkeley ) , Larry Snyder ( University of Washington ) , and Jeffrey Ullman wrote in <URL> : The evaluation of computer science and engineering faculty for promotion and tenure has generally followed the dictate " publish or perish , " where " publish " has had its standard academic meaning of " publish in archival journals " [ Academic Careers , 94 ] . Relying on journal publications as the sole demonstration of scholarly achievement , especially counting such publications to determine whether they exceed a prescribed threshold , ignores significant evidence of accomplishment in computer science and engineering . For example , conference publication is preferred in the field , and computational artifacts -- software , chips , etc. -- are a tangible means of conveying ideas and insight . Obligating faculty to be evaluated by this traditional standard handicaps their careers , and indirectly harms the field . This document describes appropriate evidence of academic achievement in computer science and engineering . Your research advisor should be able to provide you advice more specific to your case . I agree with amirg that having any publications when applying to a PhD program ( especially based on undergraduate research ) makes you exceptional . Your advisor 's recommendation also counts a lot , especially if he or she is well known .
Running a journal with Wiley as a publisher , Wiley 's instructions state JPEG , TIFF and EPS are acceptable formats . Since many authors supply figures in PDF and PNG I started to pass these on to the type-setter and found that no issues erupted . It is therefore clear that publishers may lag behind with their recommendations while type-setters are quicker to adapt to " new " formats . I imagine the lag is possibly a lack of interest to update what works , but can also be because they work with many type-setters and printers and wish to maintain a largest common set of files that they know all can accept rather than having to constantly adapt to individual services ' capabilities . I am fully aware that this thinking is a bit arcane and that any type-setter/printer that can not handle almost everything has very little potential for survival in today 's competitive world . Anyway . I would suggest asking the journal if it is possible to use PNG in your case , or do as many authors have done in " my " journal , send them in anyway . It may , for example , be possible to send in a JPG and a PNG copy of the graphics asking them to use the PNG if possible . As a side point : PNG is in my opinion the best pixel format because of its strong loss-less compression except for photographs , something it was never intended for anyway . Using PNG graphics will keep down the size of final PDFs of the article which is a good goal to have . So in my case , I encourage authors to provide PNG even though Wiley does not .
Whether a tool works for you or not depends on your work style , so general recommendations are difficult . However , you can use it for example to read digital articles . There are some literature management tools that work well with iOS devices , and you can read any PDF with readers like GoodReader . With the later you can , for example , <URL> . You can also directly access your files if you use , e.g. , Dropbox ( can be helpful in meetings ) . There are also apps available for classroom management , if you do a lot of teaching . You can use it for presentations ( Keynote on iOS is okay ) . It 's nice if you travel to conferences ( for emails and the like ) . In short , there are many uses , but it depends on your work style . Question I 'd have would be how your colleagues use the iPad ( if it 's an department wide thing ) . Also : That 's a nice problem to have . :-)
Asking on math.stackexchange often does the trick , but I wonder what the ethics involved are . For instance , if someone provides a complete answer , and the result turns out to be integral to the paper , should I offer them authorship ? If someone else made an integral contribution to your work , it seems appropriate to offer them coauthorship , yes . You go on to say : I 'm not talking about a result that is novel in itself - i.e. it would not be considered as a contribution to mathematics . The result will be an application of standard mathematics to a particular engineering problem . I see what you 're getting at , but still : if you did not have the knowledge to write the paper , then asked someone for help , then based on their help you can write the paper , then it seems that they deserve to be offered coauthorship even if what they provided was from the perspective of their discipline completely routine and well-known . One example that springs to mind is the <URL> : this is a famous ( and , in my understanding , rather important ) law of genetics whose mathematical content really does seem to amount to : if p + q = 1 , then p ^ 2 +2 pq + q ^ 2 = 1 . The history of this is not what I had assumed it to be : it is not a collaboration between Hardy and Weinberg ( Weinberg was a German physician who had independently discovered the law at about the same time ) . Rather Reginald Punnett was having trouble defending Mendelian genetics against an argument of Udny Yule that dominant alleles would weed out recessive ones and thus genotypic frequencies would not remain stable in the population . Punnett brought this up to ( the great analytic number theorist ) G.H. Hardy who happened to be his cricket partner , who duly submitted a letter to the journal Science . As the wikipedia article points out , Hardy makes his take on his " contribution " pretty clear , e.g. in the phrasing " a little mathematics of the multiplication-table type is enough to show ... " It is interesting that this is not called the " Hardy-Punnett Law " ( though there are <URL> , which seem to my inexpert eye to be pretty much the same thing ) . One striking thing about this example is that the mathematics here is really trivial : it is hard to imagine any mathematician ( or engineer , etc. ) who would not have been able to answer the question . Of course , just because you offer someone coauthorship does not mean that they will take it . Most mathematicians I know are not interested in being coauthors of papers in other disciplines for which their contribution was purely mathematical and is regarded by them as " trivial " , " well-known " or both . If someone declines coauthorship then it seems largely agreed upon that you can go on to write the paper by yourself and include a clear acknowledgement of their contribution .
It depends on the journal . For example , the <URL> instructions for authors state : appropriate institutional review board ( IRB ) review and approval should accompany all studies involving human participants or research material derived from human participants . This information should be clearly stated in the Method section of the manuscript . In addition , the manner in which informed consent was obtained from the study participants ( i.e. , oral , written , online/electronic ) should also be stated in the Method section . If the study was exempted from IRB approval , that information should be indicated in the Method section . Failure to provide this information in the manuscript may result in the manuscript being returned without review . <URL> takes a different approach and does not require the IRB approval to be mentioned in the text ( and may not even allow it ) , but does provide a <URL> , that the author must complete and is provide to reviewers , that deals with IRB approval .
Universities offer all sort of " benefits " to its employees . Some of these " benefits " do not have a monetary value ( e.g. , flexible work schedule ) . The benefits available to faculty are often different from the cleaning staff . Further there are differences in benefits between tenured/tenure track and adjunct faculty . I can only think of three benefits , that have a monetary value , for which there are differences between tenure track and tenured faculty Sabbatical : Some universities do not permit pretenure sabbaticals . It is often hard to differentiate if sabbatical eligibility is tied to tenure or time in service . <URL> provides different sabbatical benefits pre and post tenure . Housing Assistance : Some universities provide housing assistance ( discounted homes , mortgage assistance , loans , etc ) . Portions of the <URL> requires tenure . Parking : Some universities provide parking passes . <URL> provides reserved spaces for tenured faculty while other faculty and staff simply get a parking pass . In terms of perks that do not have a monetary value , this varies widely by department . Tenured faculty often get to be chair of the department ( which may or may not be a perk ) . Departments may also give tenured faculty priority in terms of teaching schedule , departmental and university service requirements , office space , and lab space . The sabbatical system , internal funding , and administrative support may be skewed in their favor also .
Good question . Here are my thoughts . If you can have both , then you should . If you can only have one or the other , then I would weight it up like this . If both are going to say good things about you , then pick the one higher in status . If one is going to say much better things about you than the other , then pick that person . If you think that can get a somewhat better recommendation from the assistant professor than from the head of the department , then that is a bit of a quandary . As status of a student 's referee and their level of supportiveness both affect acceptance decisions to uncertain degrees , you will probably just have to make a call based on your own intuition .
I 'd recommend standard mathematical notation , which should be sufficiently unambiguous yet legible . Use the standard " union " symbol ( in LaTeX ) to denote separate sets you want to take the union over . Unfortunately , no MathJax here - so here is the LaTeX code and below the result ( <URL> ) : Depending on your layout ( one vs. two columns ) , insert linebreaks at appropriate places , e.g. , like I did in the LaTeX code but not the result .
" Academic misconduct " is not the same as " Lack of academic performance . " " Academic misconduct " is things like claiming undue credit , fabrication of research or sources , outright plagiarism , etc. . Simply not making the grades might reflect on your academic aptitude , but ( unlike academic misconduct ) does not necessarily reflect upon your character .
I believe it 's only appropriate in the type of writing where you are in a position to give the reader excercises . That is , in course books or other learning material . There , I think it 's fine , assuming you 've already given enough information for them to be able to perform such an excercise . In papers or theses , you 're actually trying to convince the reader that you 're right - the reader is in the position of power , not you , as you want something from them ( to accept your ideas ) and not vice versa . Therefore , I 'd never write such a phrase in a paper or thesis . It 's of course a viable requirement to leave out some parts of the work , either because of space constraints or because they 're trivial , long but straightforward , would derail the course of the text , or something similar . If possible , such parts can be delegated to an appendix , or left out entirely . But I would accompany this with different phrasing , something like this : The formula ( 7 ) can be obtained from ( 6 ) using straightforward application of [ insert appropriate math branch here ] A detailed proof of statement ( 4 ) unfortunately exceeds the scope of this paper . The derivation of ( 3 ) from ( 1 ) is too long to present here , but it can be worked out using a symbolic computation system such as Mathematica . Equation ( 7 ) follows from a straightforward application of this-or-that theorem to equation ( 5 ) ; we refer the reader to existing literature on the topic for details of this .
Things can be different in the humanities , but English is the language of science and , in a STEM field , you can reasonably expect whoever will read your CV to be able to understand the titles of your works ( if they are in English ) . However , if , as a courtesy to the reader , you wish to translate the titles anyway , do n't eliminate the original titles , but put the two versions side-by-side . Your last point is more critical : leave the names of the university and the qualification as-is per link 1 , or put in parentheses the French name equivalent of my prior qualification ? The name of the university should be absolutely left as-is , unless the university itself does not provide an official French translation , which I doubt ( on the other side , universities from non-English speaking countries sometimes issue statements about official English translations of their names or department names ) . It 's not always easy to find equivalences among qualifications in different countries , and it 's almost impossible for grades . Thus , if you want to provide a translation , leave the original qualifications and grades too , so that the application committee can employ their equivalence rules , if they have any .
Yes , you can , and you should . It is not impolite ( unless you actually have access ) , and it is not unethical . I do n't think it is illegal , if you do not distribute it further , and it is certainly not uncommon . First , make sure you really do n't have access ( otherwise , you risk looking a bit like a fool ) , then ask him . Do n't make a big deal of it , just explain that you lack access and you believe he may have them , if so could he please send them .
Seems it is n't actually that important . I sent them an email to clarify and they replied : Do n't worry too much about the standing of the journal or conference , as long as you list any publications and conferences that you have .
end question
start question
When should cited author names be included in the substantive , rather than parenthetical , part of a citing sentence ?
Both ways are equally acceptable and used in separate instances . Basically if the author ( s ) names occur in the sentence type ( 2 ) should be used and if the name ( s ) are not then type ( 1 ) should be used . The question is then when the two forms result . Type ( 1 ) is a more passive form used when you , for example , are describing general background where the specific reference might not be key . The form is quite common ( but not exclusive ) to the introduction section . The sense is that the information is more distant from your own study . Version ( 2 ) is used when the cited studies are building the story and is closer to your work and thus more important for understanding the details of your study . A good example may be in the discussion where your results are compared with other specific studies . This is just a generalization since both are useful in all parts of a research article .
As the name implies , a statement of purpose should be forward-looking as much as possible . The " biographical " element of a statement of purpose should be included only to the extent that it helps to explain what you want to do as a graduate student . You most certainly do not want to start off with recollections of early childhood and the first time you realized you want to be a researcher . Instead , spend your efforts explaining why you want to be a graduate student in the department to which you 're applying . You should make specific reference to how your research will fit into the department 's interests . ( For instance , do n't propose a project in area X if the department does n't have a specialist in X. ) If you 're in a field where the advisor selection is made after matriculation , then you likely want to present a somewhat broader profile . If you show interest in only one professor 's work , then you are dependent on the decision of that single advisor ( who may or may not be on the admissions committee ! ) .
Speaking as an editor , I do n't care whether you put text in the box or upload a separate file as long as what you provide is clear . Speaking as an author , I have done it both ways many times , and it has never made any difference . Generally , if the response is relatively short , I 'll put it in the box ; if the response is long or uses significant formatting ( as in your case ) , I 'll attach a file instead and put " See attached comments " in the box . In short : they would n't provide the upload option if they did n't want you to use it .
In this case I would opt to cite <URL> . Citing OpenCV as a whole is more appropriate than referring to a specific function , e.g. " we obtained our results using OpenCV [ Bradski00 ] " . Since you use OpenCV , you should also cite the related paper . I would only refer to a specific function in a software package if it does not implement a known algorithm and therefore requires special attention .
There are two separate issues here , which must be dealt with individually : From a perspective of copyright law , you must make sure that you can obtain the right to reproduce the table at all . From a perspective of scientific ethics , quoting a table is exactly like quoting a passage of text or quoting a figure . You simply need to make absolutely certain that it is clear that the table is being reproduced from somebody else 's publication , and why it is more useful to the reader to reproduce the table rather than to provide a shorter summary of its contents ( e.g. , if you will be discussing elements of the table in detail ) . I would recommend stating that the table is a reproduction in two different places : In the caption of the table itself ( e.g. , " Classes of frobozinator , reproduced from [ Cite ] " ) In the text where you first refer to the table ( e.g. , " Let us now turn to a more detailed discussion of frobozinators , as guided by the taxonomy developed in [ cite ] . For ease of reference , the table of classes from [ cite ] is reproduced in Table 5 . " )
Ok I did this before . This is actually quite simple and straightforward , so without sugar coating it , you should have three main parts : Introduction and Conclusion : The reader should be able to go only through your introduction and conclusion chapters , and see what is going on . I 'm hoping you know what chapter numbers they are by now ! Background and Related Work : After introduction you should have a solid background and related work chapter ( s ) . Do n't introduce something that you do n't use and do n't hide some background read here . Ok ok , the last two parts you did n't ask for but I wrote it to be a complete reference for others . Ok now to your questions : ' I 'm a qualified PhD ' chapters ! : Now two to four chapters should be explicitly cover your own work . So : 3.1 Separate theory from practice : I do n't want to see some theory stuff and then suddenly a pipeline to a compiler . It has many advantages in terms of defending it and then correcting it later on if necessary . Also the examiners will see that you are well rounded computer scientist ; therefore you know your practice as well as theory and vice versa . So basically , you do n't want to have an impression on examiners that you just injected theory/practice because you are weak in practice/theory . 3.2 Unify Your approaches : Can you find a common ground between all the techniques you used ? For example , you could have a chapter on code generation techniques , and then group all your work into one chapter . The pitfall here is to repeat the same approach over and over for different models . 3.3 Solid Evaluation : You need a solid evaluation , now that you used different techniques try to honestly evaluate them . Also , more importantly try to write a comparison between all of the techniques used and highlight each individual positive and/or negative outcomes . 3.4 Appendices : Moreover do n't just drop boilerplate code in your own chapters , try to use number of appendix for different parts of your code .
I can think about a few arguments to include all original authors as authors of the corrigendum . They actually work on the corrigendum by reading your manuscript and making comments ; The corrigendum has no " primary " value without the original paper , it can be considered as an extra chapter . It does not really matter that you worked on this chapter more than they , since they probably contributed to other parts of the paper ; How would it look if you publish corrigendum without them ? A little bit like " These senior guys screw it up , but luckily I able to fix it " , is n't it ? Do you really think this is an impression you want to make considering their contribution ?
The facile answer is you do n't stop searching the literature . Even as the review evolves , you should be including new references if they are noteworthy in addressing questions within the field . This process should continue as long as you are working in the field of the problem . Of course , from a practical standpoint , you do need to select a cutoff . There should be a reasonable point in time in which you 've set the outline of the review , and decided on the main topics and questions to be discussed . At that point , it would be fair to set aside adding more references , and stick to what 's been published . However , you should continue to monitor the field , and if further revisions or updates of the text are necessary , then you should include the papers published in the interim as part of your updates .
When you are evaluated as a job candidate in academia , the first thing people will see is your PhD . That will tell them that you know how to dig into a topic , get the background knowledge that you need in order to conduct the research you are interested in . The next thing they will look at is your publication record . Because of the peer review process , they will feel confident that if you publish in reputable journals on a particular topic , you know what you 're talking about . So if you 're sure you 're headed for academia , I think you will be fine just cherry-picking the particular courses you think will be most helpful for you in Environmental Policy . ( Although if you find that you 're , say , only one or two courses away from satisfying the requirements for the masters , then I suppose you might as well finish it off . ) Think of how many PhDs veer off in a different direction during the course of their career ! They do n't bother getting a new PhD in the process , because they already have one . You can think of the PhD studies as the apprenticeship to do research , and the PhD as a driver 's license which was issued in one state , but which you can use in other states .
Thesis writers generally have much more freedom to format them as they please . The only real requirement is that it follows any guidelines of the department and institution to which it is submitted , and receives the approval of the writers ' thesis committees . That said , I believe that these days , space should not really be a limiting consideration for a thesis writer . The methods section should be as long as needed to convey the necessary information . In addition , since this is not normally a journal publication , there is much more room to explain things in detail -- which can be very useful for future members of the lab group who might follow up the same project .
Getting a paper accepted for publication in a normal journal is a matter of credibility : you must be able to convince the peer reviewers that the content of your paper is both true and novel . Very high status journals such as Nature or Science work somewhat differently : there you can not reach the peer reviewers until you first convince the editor that your work is " important " and " broadly interesting " enough to consider , which is a somewhat arbitrary process . Let us consider only normal journals , however , where the bulk of all publication takes place : they still have an editorial filter , but it is generally only to ensure a submission is at least vaguely on-topic , not plagiarized , and basically sane . These are pretty low bars to pass , though they are definitely affected by being known . If I see a paper that has come out with a well-known PI as author and that looks like a logical extension on their prior work , I 'm unlikely to scrutinize carefully for being on-topic or sanity : it would be such a blow to the reputation of the PI to misbehave there that I am comfortable to take the small risk that the reviewers might get annoyed because the paper turns out to actually be crazy or off-topic . Not being known wo n't generally hurt an author here , it will just mean their paper is more likely to actually get checked for topic and sanity , rather than simply trusted . The peer reviewers are another matter . Peer review is a very noisy process , and even when double-blinding is used , it is often possible to have a good idea when a well-known person is involved based on the methods that they are using . Most peer reviewers are conscientious and try to do a good and neutral job , but a ( frustrating ) minority are <URL> . Even for those who are trying to do a good job are human and thus are subject to same standard cognitive flaws we all are , like <URL> . All of this means that an unknown 's credibility will likely be assessed differently than a person who is well-known as a good and careful researcher . The unknown person will generally either have to present stronger evidence to be believed or will have the evidence that they do present scrutinized more carefully . That unknown will actually be better off , though , than a well-known person who has a history of sloppy or controversial work , who will typically have an even harder time convincing peer reviewers . Do not draw the wrong lesson from this , however : a person most certainly can publish well as an unknown , early in their career , without relying on the name recognition of co-authors . Many of us do exactly that . It 's just going to be somewhat harder than after one has already established a reputation as a careful and productive researcher . Final note : if you ever find yourself saying " They only rejected my paper because I 'm not [ well-known / popular / one of the cool kids / etc ] " then you are probably wrong and engaging in sour grapes kvetching . If they rejected your paper , then you should also have been provided with clear information about what types of evidence would improve your ability to get accepted . Do that instead .
Not a particularity helpful answer , but ... No , it does not happen at all institutes , but it does happen at many . In some cases it is official and in other cases it is unofficial . As an applicant you should assume that the entire time you are on campus is part of the interview including any drinks/meals .
I believe that this is university based . To make a long story short , the university usually owns some form of copyright on your intellectual work and passes it to you when you publish . If any of said copyright is used for commercial purposes then you need to make a deal with them on a case by case basis , though there are standardised contracts . University will have a office devoted to this . If the company is unrelated to your field/work than there 's no need for such arrangements , but you still might want to double check with them . This is my understanding having seen a colleague going through some of this ( and eventually get told there was no need to make arrangements , essentially if is not something you devised or developed while working its ok )
There is more here than style : the first and third options mean something quite different from the fourth and fifth . In the former cases , what you are asserting is that someone else argued for X . In the latter cases , you are asserting X and using the citation as evidence/support/proof . ( That I ca n't quite tell where the second one fits into this dichotomy is a strike against it . ) In an academic paper , that is a not so subtle difference . I find the style question less critical . It is a matter of general good writing rather than anything specifically academic or it is specific to the journal at hand ( so we need not discuss it here ) . Of course you can use an author 's name as a subject of a sentence : you can write what you want , you know ! As a matter of style , to my ear the first option sounds good , the second option sounds weird , and the third option sounds weaker and wordier than the first , but maybe the surrounding text gives you a good reason to write it that way . The difference between options 4 and 5 is just a difference in citation style . First that is very field dependent ; in my field ( mathematics ) , we would do 5 rather than 4 ; in much of the humanities it would be the other way around . Second , unless your choice is so so strange that it prevents your readers from finding the references in your bibliography , the whole issue can probably wait until your paper gets accepted , in which case they 'll either do it for you , tell you exactly what to do , or tell you that you did it wrong ( and ask you to fix it ) .
In most cases , there is no preference . The vast majority of graduate programs in the US accept both IELTS and TOEFL . A program that does have a preference will say so in its admission instructions . For example , <URL> : In addition to the required credentials for applications , international students must demonstrate an understanding of English , including the ability to read and write with ease . International students are required to submit scores from or the Test of English as a Foreign Language ( TOEFL ) that meet our minimum requirements . If the TOEFL is not available , we will accept scores from the International English Language Testing System ( IELTS ) . and <URL> : If your first language is not English , you will need to submit an IELTS test score . Please note : this department does not accept TOEFL scores under any circumstances . While <URL> : Stanford does not accept IELTS scores . ( While through <URL> NYU GSAS acccepted TOEFL only , as of Fall 2016 they appear to have <URL> . ) and <URL> : -- Do you accept the IELTS instead of the TOEFL ? No . So you can check if the specific programs you are interested in have a preference .
Taking your statements at face value ( and thus imagining something like the others having designed X and evaluated X in a study , while you implemented X based upon their designs ) , this sounds like a typical situation where you should be mentioned for having conducted the implementation/practical construction . This should certainly happen in a presentation of the work , and possibly ( if the paper has an Acknowledgments section and if space allows for it ) also in the written text . Admittedly , this is at the verge participating in the design / idea of the research at hand ( and maybe you even did contribute some detail decisions without realizing ) , so including you as an author depends a bit on the concrete circumstances - and also on the main authors ' personal preference ( but then , so might accusations of gift authorship in this case ) . As for how to bring this up with the authors , you could ask in a somewhat unspecific way such as " I 'm interested in gradually increasing my level of participation in research papers , is there a chance for increasing my contributions and acting as a co-author in the future ? " That way , chances are the main authors will immediately get the idea of adding you one way or another in the current paper , while at the same time , you are not burning any bridges by appearing too demanding .
Citations that do not appear in the main article should not appear in the bibliography section of the main article . Instead , you should create a separate references list in the supporting information , and use a separate numbering scheme . Usually you can use the same numbering scheme as in the main article ; it will be clear that references apply to the supporting information , rather than the main article . ( You could add a footnote to that effect if you want to make this clear , since supporting information is usually handled " as is " by the publisher . )
Doing a little bit of poking around , I found most articles on BlackHat 2015 not listed in Google Scholar , and all of the articles that I did find listed were cited by other papers . It seems to me then likely that this is among the " grey area " sites that Google Scholar is not indexing ( BlackHat 's status as an academic conference is murky ) , and thus that any material that you find is being added to the Google Scholar index through other routes .
There are three distinct levels of credit that the former postdoc might be given , depending on their level of contribution to each particular new publication . In order of increasing significance , these are : Citation . The postdoc has done significant prior work for these papers , and so clearly this prior work must be cited . Acknowledgement . If the postdoc contributed materially to the new paper , but not enough to merit authorship , then acknowledgement is the typical compromise " middle ground . " Authorship ( though not in one of the " privileged positions " such as first author or last author , if they are held significant in the particular subfield ) . The boundary between citation and acknowledgement is usually pretty straightforward : did the individual make any contribution that significantly aided the new work beyond providing nice , clear explanations of the content of their publications ? If not , then merely citing should be sufficient . The boundary between acknowledgement and authorship is extremely field dependent , and moreover often affected strongly by the subfield . With ethical and trusted colleagues , the best way to navigate this question is often simply to have an open discussion together about where and how to draw this boundary .
The purpose of adding words like " novel " and " innovative " is to weed out proposals that may be poorly researched and thus copying others or or involve repeating other works in a slightly different setting ( or equivalent ) . The phrasings makes rejecting proposals easier since it provides a critieria ( one among many ) against which it can be judged . Funding agencies are also keen to see their funding go to research that can be judged to contribute " significant " results . My experience says that what constitutes " novel " and " innovative " is difficult to assess in detail . In my field , environmental/earth science , some themes become " fashionable " or hot and signals these aspects , or rather absence means less likelihood to receive funding . These themes include finite element modelling ( 70s ) , acid rain ( 70s/80s ) and climate change ( currently ) . This can be seen as a communal will or interest to steer research in certain ways and so showing you can significantly contribute to these goals was/is more or less necessary to provide you with a good chance for obtaining funding . So to define " novel " and " innovative " will be difficult . And , as a side point , your research either is or is not " novel " or " innovative " , there are no degrees . You need to come up with ideas that are truly new ( testing new grounds ) or which promise results that are significantly advancing science but more importantly , you need to convince the reviewers in the funding agency about your case . This means to avoid " more of the same " proposals , to be sure your idea has not been worked on before ( know your field ) . A book , I strongly recommend for all is Friedland , A. , Fold , C.L. , 2009 . Writing Successful Science Proposals , Second Edition . Yale Univ. . Press
end question
start question
Can I cite an unpublished Master Thesis ?
Just because it 's not published does n't preclude being able to cite it . You ca n't not cite the thesis if you 're taking information from it ! The degree-granting institution should perpetually retain copies in its library , and most universities these days store PDF copies as well . A copy may be harder to track down , but a determined reader should have no enormous difficulty in getting a copy of the thesis . Example : Smith B. ( 2013 ) , General Relativity , MSc thesis , University of Cambridge , UK .
I would be pragmatic here . Citations are a currency in science . If the authors of a tool help your research by providing the tool to the general public , it is only fair to reference their work in the way they requested it to happen - and , certainly , citing a given reference in a paper that uses their work is not an unreasonable request . I can not image why it would be unethical to say something like We have used Theano [ 1 ] to evaluate XY ( ... ) in your paper , where [ 1 ] J. Bergstra , O. Breuleux , F. Bastien , P. Lamblin , R. Pascanu , G. Desjardins , J. Turian , D. Warde-Farley and Y. Bengio . " Theano : A CPU and GPU Math Expression Compiler " . Proceedings of the Python for Scientific Computing Conference ( SciPy ) 2010 . June 30 - July 3 , Austin , TX As to whether this is common , I would say yes . Most authors of well-known tools in my area specify a preference for how their work should be acknowledged . If you are bothered by not having read the paper you are citing , there is a simple fix for that - read the paper , and decide for yourself whether it is worth citing in that context ( but , generally , the answer will be yes ) .
As some comments note , answers will vary dramatically by field , but it seems better to have a bunch of answers for different fields to one question , instead of having people ask the same question a dozen times for different fields . For math , if you 're talking about a completed , submitted paper that has n't been published yet ( say , because it 's still being refereed ) , you should feel free to talk about it ; the submission date proves your claim on the result , so it ca n't really be stolen at this stage . ( Also , you already put it on the arXiv , so it 's already public , right ? ) Suppose you 're still writing the paper , but the results are completely solid . There are good reasons to tell people about the result : you may be want to discuss ideas for how to build on your paper , you may want to give people a head 's up that the theorem is coming -- say , so they can use it to prove things themselves , and you may want to establish a partial claim on the result in case someone else is doing the same thing . There are also good reasons not to tell people : even though you 're really awfully sure the result is solid , there might still be mistakes ; routinely announcing results well in advance of the paper can negatively affect your reputation ; someone could use your ideas to write their own paper faster . ( There 's an interesting phenomenon where once people know a theorem is true , it becomes easier to solve ; sometimes a problem is open for a long time , and then abruptly solved multiple times in a short period . ) Taking these together , I 'd advise not to announce a result until the paper 's finished unless there 's a strong reason to do so . This is particularly true early in your career , when it 's more likely that you 'll mistakenly believe a proof was really-definitely-totally finished . ( I was given this advice when I was in grad school , and while I have n't followed it 100 % of the time , I 've never regretted following it . )
Believe it or not , there are <URL> ( Chicago &amp; MLA quoted there , others may be available ) and you may be able to take a similar approach . ( I like the MLA approach , which is reminiscent of the very old-fashioned approach of naming an untitled document after the " incipit " , its first words ... ) Alternatively , you could give it a placeholder title - - here the URL is the key element to find it and the bracketed element is just for the reader 's convenience . As to " should " ... if you would be happy to use this as a useful source had he published it in something unreviewed but with a title ( eg a personal blog post ) , then the absence of a title should n't really be the problem ...
No , cite it as you would any other paper . You do not mention the paper status ( " invited paper " , in your case ; " review paper " , " perspective " , " editorial " , etc. ) in the citation , unless that is formally part of the title ( which it typically is not ) , or unless the citation style explicitly calls for it ( IEEE does not , and I know no citation style that does ) . In IEEE 's templates and LaTeX classes , the only place which mentions invited papers is a command to indicate when your paper is an invited paper ( here for <URL> ) : Special paper notices , such as for invited papers , can be declared with :
Immediately before the definition , you could say " Quoting verbatim from [ source ] , we define a [ whatever-it-is ] as follows : " That is , in general , thinking in terms of honesty/forthrightness is an excellent guide .
When you cite any source , you should give enough that the reader can , at least in principle , read that source for themselves . This information is especially important when you cite something as a source for further information , as it is in your example paper . This paper presents the framework of such a complete phenomenological model _ outlined by Sayeedvafa ( 2002 ) that provides a description of a wide range of the observed behavior , which are both tractable from analytical as well as computational viewpoint . For example , citations of technical reports ( like your first example ) should uniquely identify both the institution and the report , so that the reader knows who and how to ask for a copy . In particular , if the report is available on the web at a stable location , the citation should include a stable URL . If a source is likely to be inaccessible to most readers ( like your second example ) , you should also cite an accessible secondary source that describes the relevant content in detail . ( If you really want to be helpful , the primary source citation should include a pointer like " Cited in [ xxx ] . " ) Otherwise , you 're just asking for the reader 's blind trust that the source has the missing details you claim , or proves the result that you claim , or is as important as you claim , or even exists at all .
If the research was original and academic , then I would say keep it in there if it 's relevant to the role that you see yourself working in . If it was a team effort , make sure you cite it as such . Since it was n't officially published , I 'd suggest linking to it online ( and hosting it somewhere if it is n't already hosted by your academic institution ) . Of course , I 'm not really authoritative on this type of thing , but if I were evaluating prospective employees , I 'd love to be able to see relevant examples of their work even if they were n't formally published .
As others have said , not every ( old ) article has a DOI or a URL . However , in mathematics every article since 1940 has an MR number which uniquely identifies it . So go to <URL> and look up this article . I just did , it has MR number MR0844292 . The bibliographical information on mathscinet ( like the transliteration of the author 's name ) would also be considered the " canonical information " .
Yes you can . The " Assistant Professor " still teaches . The word Assistant is there to denote the rank within the academic system . Some have taught longer and are more accomplished and are rewarded accordingly . Actually , calling the person " Assistant Professor Jones " would be very awkward and cumbersome . It should be avoided .
You need to cite the book , as that vouches for the provenance of the image ( including that it is of who it is claimed to be ) . If I 'd done that retouching myself , I would n't mention it as it does n't change the content ( it 's effectively undoing some of the effects of scanning an old image ) . A " ( retouched ) " might be appropriate , and certainly " ( enhanced to show ... ) " if that was what you 'd done . If someone else had retouched images specifially for a paper I was writing , they 'd deserve an acknowledgement , so here they deserve a mention . I would cite the original still , but with a note ( or the equivalent in your referencing style ) . Something like " ( via <URL> , retouched by user Garrondo ) " should be sufficient for academic propriety ( and should cover the CC requirements were that an issue ) .
The norm for secondary sources varies by field , and it is generally suggested that you follow what is normal in your field . As I note in my answer to this related question , <URL> - some institutions insist on secondary citations , like Columbia , while some style guides ( APA ) permit secondary source citation . IEEE on the other hand explicitly calls out not to use secondary sources , period . If you were in any of the fields I work in ( computer science , psychology , HCI , etc. ) which use APA/IEEE styles , I would suggest a third option : cite paper B if it is important , and do n't accept that you first have to read the whole chain of papers leading up to B. Saying " B is important for [ reason ] , and shows an important historical method that is not used here " , and cite it . You do n't have to understand every aspect of it in detail to get the gist and determine if it should be cited or not .
The ASCII standard is set out in <URL> , so you should cite it directly .
As noted <URL> , this is probably highly dependent on the university culture and field . My answer is based on my impressions from CS in Germany . In my subfield ( HCI-related ) , it was most usual for doctoral candidates to supervise between one and four Bachelor/Master theses a year , maybe a bit less for post-docs ( each of which took exactly 6 months ) . ( Depending on the topic , supervision occasionally took place in groups - i.e. two or three supervisors for one student , taking turns at supervision tasks or focusing different aspects of the work . ) As a rough guideline , the " amount " of supervision provided was usually a weekly meeting ( typically , between 10 and 60 minutes in length ) with the student to give them advice and answer questions . And , realistically , in some phases and for some students , to remind them that they should get some work done because they can not work on their Bachelor/Master thesis forever . As a secondary channel of supervision , students were free to ask urgent questions whenever they came up , via e-mail or by just dropping by in the supervisor 's office whenever it was convenient . The kind of supervision covered a wide spectrum - essentially , everything from high-level advice ( decisions about the content and how to proceed , developing some basic ideas for solutions together , scientific best practices , ... ) to low-level operational details ( technical issues in the code and in the LaTeX document , stylistic writing and layouting questions in the document , ... ) could come up .1 As for looking at drafts , I agree with <URL> in that it 's likely too late if the thesis is almost due . Personally , when I knew the student was in the phase in which they had already scheduled some writing , I would ask my students on almost every meeting whether there 's a new or revised section that I can read and comment on ( not necessarily because I was so keen on commenting , but first and foremost as another means of urging students to do the part of the task that most liked the least - writing the thesis document ) . Moreover , at least at my home department , we usually required students to use the department 's <URL> version control system , which was another way how supervisors could look at the students ' progress and the current state of their thesis when they had a feeling progress was n't as smooth as it should be . Lastly , concerning fairness , I must admit the thought that there could be anything unfair ( in a way that should be avoided ) in this never crossed my mind . Of course , supervisors in different institutes may hold very different opinions as to what amount and kind of effort is optimal and feasible in their supervision . But then , students are not assigned to supervisors in my place ; they usually pick a topic they like and they know beforehand who is going to be the supervisor for that topic . Anyway , as a result of the different opinions , supervision between institutes differed . Students could have bad luck with their supervisor , or with the typical style of supervision in the institute that focuses on the subfield they like . But the question is : Should you do anything about it ? I 'd say no . First , because I consider it part of a university graduate 's skills to also get along with supervision that does not ideally suit their personal preferences . And moreover , because I firmly believe that unfairness should not be countered by removing any advantages until every option is as bad as the original quality minimum . 1 : This does not mean that students would have supervisors do all their work . The goal was rather guiding the students towards a balance between working out problems autonomously and not being shy to actively contact the supervisor about any current roadblocks .
No . Specific coursework ( whether formal or informal , online or in-person ) does not belong in an academic CV .
No . Unpublished work is unpublished . It 's almost as if it does n't exist . Given that it is your work , there is no case of plagiarism . I do n't even think you need to cite yourself -- what would you actually be citing ? Indeed , how would you prove that you plagiarised yourself ? If your unpublished work has been circulated among other authors and has been cited by them , maybe you can cite it too . But that seems a bit odd .
Skype interviews are usual ( e.g. I have one with Oxford ) . The school might prefer face-to-face interviews but there is nothing wrong in sending a polite ( brief ! ) email .
Be aware , too , that the administrative and departmental conceptions of both the privileges and responsibilities of adjuncts vary hugely from place to place . In many places , adjunct faculty do not serve on any committees , and it would be nearly universal that , in particular , they 'd not be on the hiring and tenure committees , and not vote on hiring and tenure . The question of being " allowed " to be an official advisor ( as opposed to the obvious possibilities of informal mentoring ) also surely has different answers different places . In some institutions , it is quite anomalous for " non-tenure-track/tenured faculty " to be allowed to " advise " . You 'd need to ask . At worst , adjunct faculty are marginalized in terms of job security , voice in departmental matters , and are given the least desirable teaching responsibilities , etc. . Hopefully this is not the situation at your institution , but , for example , a move from " research associate " to " adjunct faculty " might be , and might be perceived as , a step down , with unanticipated negative consequences for you . Hard to know without " being on the ground " there in your particular situation . Also , beware that various administrative " official " statements on such things do not match practice , so unofficial , off-the-record information may be essential .
You can thank whomever you want in the acknowledgments of your thesis , but there may be consequences that you have to live with . In my opinion it is a bad idea to admit to illegal activity in a formal document like this . Once you write that , you can not unwrite it : it will be archived for the rest of your career . I do n't really think you 'd get in any trouble directly , but by doing so you 're advertising the fact that you are willing to break rules that you do n't like and do so entirely openly . I think that a lot of potential employers prefer employees who when they break the rules for a good reason , do so more quietly . I also do n't really see what you 're gaining by doing this . A thesis acknowledgment is not a step toward legal free downloading of texts . I happen to agree with you that " a way to make them legal should be found " . One way I work towards this is that I make all of my lecture notes -- some of which are very close to being textbooks -- freely available on the internet . Whenever I have spoken with publishing companies , I mention at the first meeting my requirement that my material be made freely available on the internet . To my surprise , they have not walked out of the room . I also have largely stopped assigning expensive required texts . In summary : an acknowledgment to the providers of illegal content is a microscopic flouting of the establishment , not a helpful act . I recommend that you think a bit more carefully about what you can do to actually improve the situation .
There is no definite answer . It really depends on how much previous literature exists , how much of it you have reviewed and cited appropriately , and ( loosely ) what the word count of the document is . Page count can misleading , as some theses have many more figures and tables than others . No one is going to skip to the bibliography , think negative thoughts , and say " you have too many references ! " without reading the document . If no individual part of the thesis could be considered as having too many citations , then the thesis as a whole has an appropriate number of citations . These related questions have answers as to how you can decide if a particular part of the thesis has too many citations . <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Funding for Belgian student to do a PhD in UK ?
The top universities often have a lot of reasonably obscure funding options . For example with the University of Cambridge - if you go through the steps at <URL> they list all their funding options , you 'll see for Physics there are fully-funded scholarships such as these that might be of interest to you : Leslie Wilson Research Scholarship ( # 17,427 per year ) Winton Scholarship ( s ) in the Physics of Sustainability Thalmann Bequest ( covers EU fees only ) Schiff Fund ( upto # 20,000 per year ) Gulbenkian Studentship ( specifically for non-UK nationals ) <URL> The equivalent website for the University of Oxford is <URL> and it reckons 35 Scholarships were found for a new student from Belgium studying Theoretical Physics ( DPhil ) so I 'm not going to list them all here !!! Best of luck !
First , check the fine print in the paper itself . Some journals ask the authors to designate one person as the " contact author " or " corresponding author " , and distinguish that author with a notation and a mark on the author list . If that is the case , then that is the person that you should write to . Beyond that , since the professor is well-known in your field , know that you are unlikely to end up doing much direct collaboration with them in any case , simply because they probably already have many different projects in progress . The student is also more likely to respond at all for the same reason . You ca n't know before writing , however , whether you 'd mostly likely end up working with this Ph.D. student or somebody else : if the student still has some years to go , you 'd likely end up collaborating with them ; if they are about to defend , they might either be " taking the project " or handing it off to another student . So if there is n't one person designated as contact author , write to both ( as ff524 suggests in the comments ) , and let them decide how to respond .
Sure : The DFG in Germany awards grants for projects to organize digital libraries . The ministry of education and research in Germany funds large projects on higher education ( one of them is the Qualittspakt Lehre - you hire people ( often at the PhD or postdoc level ) to organize or develop new courses , course concepts or course material ) . There are grants for projects on history of science . Universities offer reduction of teaching load or sabbaticals for writing books ( which is really some kind of a grant , you get paid with time not money ) . In books you often see acknowledgements for some funding . Granted , in many of these grants the money or time does not go to PhD students or postdocs but at least the first three things fit the bill . Note however , that as soon there is no research involved , you can not get a research degree for this work . So these kind of positions are not attractive to some students .
Nobody will notice or care , unless you share a last name with your wife , in which case the strongest reaction is likely to be , " aw how cute , a husband and wife published a paper together . "
They can not fund you directly , so you need to bring money from elsewhere . Your best bet is to ask them , as they would be aware of the possible agencies that provide grants in your field . They should also be able to help you put together a stronger application . In any case , your position is uncertain , so do n't overcommit to this place , and keep applying elsewhere .
Yes . The affiliation serves two purposes : acknowledgement and identification . Even if it is not part of your thesis research , if you are receiving resources of any kind from your institution , you should list them as your affiliation . These resources include money ( whether directly related to your research or not ) , computing equipment , internet access , printer access , electricity , phones , faculty and student colleagues ( whether coauthors or not ) , library access ( either physical or electronic ) , whiteboards , local coffee shops/bars , and the general intellectual atmosphere that encourages you to do research in the first place . You can afford to be generous . Also , the affiliation helps identify you as an author , especially if you have a common name , or you publish other papers with the same affiliation .
Having only a MSc ( and not doing a PhD ) it might be hard to get an official research funding ( although , there are many different programs and maybe there is one for someone with your status ; especially if in some way you are still affiliated with an university of institute ) . Sadly , ( as Paul Hiemstra pointed out ) there no such thing as a scientific freelancer . Science market is very far from an unregulated , free market ( and the supply is higher than demands , so it is not a place for freelancer jobs ) . However , there are two options which may make sense to you : doing a part-time PhD , or some PhD where you are not expected to be at the univ. all the time ; effectively , it may work for you ( though , then it will need to be rather at a low-rank univ. ; most likely the most important thing is to find a univ. with no to low teaching load + an advisor who does not care ( sic ! ) or one who understands your situation and is willing to participate in such relationship ) , considering crowdfunding - i.e. describing you project on a website and gathering from all interested people ( like on <URL> ) ; here is <URL> ( then it is not from government ) .
It should n't but it might . For example , in my department , if you are the best candidate then you will get the funding no matter what . However , if you have exactly the same qualifications with another candidate ( almost never happens ) and we have funding only for one , we would offer the other candidate funding and to you to come without funding . Of course , once at the department , we would try to get funding for you for the next semester/year . All these , depend on the department policy though .
A number of UK universities have their policies on the appointment of Honorary positions on their websites . It appears from a number of them that the appointments are usually made upon the request from for example , the head of a school , within the institution . It appears ( from the University of St Andrews ) that appointments are made when it is deemed to be beneficial to both parties . An Honorary appointment is an arrangement which allows distinguished individuals from other institutions and organisations to collaborate with academic staff at the University of St Andrews and have access to certain University facilities to further their own research , cooperate on joint research or contribute to the teaching of the University . It recognises an ongoing association with the University . In all of the policies it appears that the Head of School makes that application and it is the HR department that makes the final decision on the granting of the Honorary position . I relation to gaining a Honorary position , I would think that if you are well known in your field of research there is a better chance of gaining one . Here is a list of links to policies for the following universities . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> In Ireland ( my home country ) I believe they are occasionally awarded . Trinity College Dublin have Honorary positions in their <URL>
I 've occasionally seen letters with incorrect graduate program names , and it 's not something I 'd worry about . It 's never bothered me , and while I 've seen other committee members point it out , I 've never gotten the impression that they particularly cared . ( They 've pointed it out in the spirit of " Oops , someone messed up " rather than " Here 's a negative factor we should keep in mind . " ) There are two cases in which it could be harmful : If you name a substantially lower-ranked program , then the reader might wonder whether this low ranking influenced your recommendation . ( Maybe you have several variants of the letter , and send more enthusiastic variants to lower-ranked programs . ) If you include any comments about how suitable this specific program is for the applicant , then of course these comments will become worthless if you name the wrong school . However , most letters for applicants to graduate school do n't include such comments , and even when they do it 's rarely a crucial part of the letter . ( It 's particularly awkward if you send Harvard a letter talking about what a perfect fit Yale would be and how you have encouraged the applicant to go there if accepted . ) You mention the possibility of hurting the applicant by revealing where else they have applied . Theoretically , this could look weird or problematic if they 've made eccentric choices about where to apply . ( If a top program knows they 're also applying to a much lower-ranked program , then the committee might take it as an admission of weakness or an indication that the applicant has a strong personal reason to go elsewhere . ) However , I would n't worry about it in practice . It 's expected that everyone will apply to a range of schools , and I do n't recall ever having seen a case I thought would really worry admissions committees .
It 's reasonable for your professor to want some input as to how you spend your time , and it 's customary for students to keep their advisors informed about other things they are working on . You have perhaps committed a slight breach of etiquette by not telling him about this project earlier . However , in my view , it is deeply inappropriate for him to ask you to take your name off the paper . He is your advisor but he does n't own your life . You have done the work and as an academic it is your right to publish it . An interaction like this would have me thinking about looking for a new advisor , quick . If the professor has technical concerns about the quality of the paper itself and thinks that it is not ready to appear in the scientific/academic record , then he should discuss this with you , and you should share those concerns with your coauthor and come to a decision on their merits . But I feel it 's not appropriate for your professor 's reputation to be part of that conversation - just decide whether the paper is good and publishable or not . Your second question is unrelated but I 'll address it here anyway . Do not add another person as author ( your advisor or anyone else ) just so they can present it at the conference . In order to be an author , a person must have made a significant intellectual contribution to the work , and it 's unethical to " gift " authorship for any other reason . In many cases , conferences allow a paper to be presented by someone other than an author . So if you know someone who is attending the conference and willing to present your paper , they may be able to do it without you unethically making them an author . But if the conference really requires one of the authors to attend and neither of you can , then I suppose all you can do is withdraw your paper and resubmit to a conference which you can attend .
PhD studentships are quite often advertised like " normal " jobs , i.e. on general job boards/recruting websites . If you have contacts , by all means use them . As for evaluating the candidates , similar guidelines as for evaluating applicants for any jobs apply . I do n't think there 's a one-fits-all answer . Note that the hiring process may also depend on what institution you 'd be working for . They might have an HR department that screens/selects the candidates .
It does n't matter what the supervisor 's Ph.D. was in , originally : fields are protean and careers take all sorts of strange paths . What really matters is whether the supervisor 's knowledge is sufficient to supervise the research that the student will be conducting . That depends on the path of their career , the precise focus of the student 's research , etc. . My advisor , for example , had a Ph.D. in mathematics ( since computer science did n't really exist as a separate field yet ) , but has worked in artificial intelligence , electrical engineering , physics , VLSI , biological modeling , and astronomy , and would be quite appropriate to supervise students in projects in any of those fields , if their focus and his background had sufficient overlap . Likewise , my background in artificial intelligence was no barrier to supervising a biology Ph.D. ( which I have done ) , given the path of my own research over time .
To put the following into context , I teach at a UK university and have delivered courses at a Singapore partner university for many years . In support of many of the above comments , you need have no concerns about the academic establishment in Singapore , at any level , from primary through to university . Education is top of Singapore 's agenda and this is apparent everywhere . Teaching is in english throughout . Singapore 's universities are world-class . The living and working environments are excellent . Cost of living ( apart from housing ) is lower than UK . The transport system is also excellent . Cost of accommodation is the only negative . Apartment rental costs are high - comparable to London . However , if you are appointed on expat terms the University will provide an apartment and the rent will be subsidised ; all large companies that employ expat staff take account of accommodation costs . But you should make sure that you know what type of apartment is on offer and that it meets your family needs . ' Landed properties ' form a very small part of Singapore 's accommodation , the large majority are high-rise apartments . Income tax is much lower than UK levels - you can check this out on the government 's IRAS web page .
Good PhD Advisors ( tm ) would first of all talk to the student about the issue . Large-scale depressions need to be properly treated and respected . The important thing is to find out if it is the academic work that causes the depressions and to take counter-measures if it is . Now if the depression lasts , is properly treated and puts obtaining the PhD at > 90 % risk of failure and all possible measures have been taken to help the student ( both on the professional level and as far as applicable and feasible , on the personal level ) , then the student is wasting time in academia . And nothing is more depressing than that . So a Good PhD Advisor ( tm ) would help the student with establishing a new working life that makes use of the degrees already obtained as much as possible . This is basically the best the advisor can do to pave the way to a happier life for the student . I would n't call that " firing " someone .
You are not expected to have any research publications at all to enter a UK PhD programme , even at Oxbridge . Any you have will put you in good stead . Most entrants to UK PhD programmes come from an undergraduate course or a masters programme where they have learnt lots but only undertaken research within limited parameters . Many will have only completed a project and written an unpublished report . A first class undergraduate degree , a 2:1 is sometimes acceptable ; but because undergraduate scoring is not standardized across UK ( or worldwide ) universities there will be an extended interview . You will need to be able to demonstrate your knowledge and your capacity to reason with a good performance during the interview ( s ) with your prospective supervisor and probably others in the department . The interview is also an important chance for you and your supervisor to find out if the two of you will be able to work together closely in the future .
As a PhD student I did exactly that , contacting professors for exchange about two years ago , and that worked very well for me . ( I ended up visiting a top UK university and the collaboration was , and still is , very productive . ) My supervisor was involved in discussing the places I wanted to go , but I handled all contact . Some advice : Study the professor 's webpage ( if they have one ) to see if it says anything about collaborations . If it says on their webpage that they have no time , do n't contact them . Send the professor an email , give them a week or two to answer , then follow up with a second reminder-email if there is no reply . Important things to do/mention : Make sure the email is very short , but that it still describes precisely what you want to collaborate on . Professors are chronically short on time . If you have a travel grant etc. that will fund your stay , it 's important to say so . ( They 're much more likely to accept you if they do n't have to spend any money . But I think most universities will waive term fees if you ask them . ) Add a sentence about your accomplishments so far , so they have some impression that having you visit is going to be a net gain for them . Mention any papers you 've co-authored , if you add a link make sure it 's short ( DOI , arXiv etc ) . Try to keep the email self-contained , but linking to any papers , your CV or research webpage " for more information about me " is OK . Also add a sentence describing how you think your proposed topic fits with what they are doing , so they know you 've actually checked out their group and read some of their papers etc. . In my experience , most people reply positively to such an email , so first send emails to the two or three places you want to visit the most . If none of those are successful , send to the next few places on your list . YMMV though .
Conferences are very important in CS . Journals are also important , but they tend to accept more mature work , and therefore might be especially hard to publish into as a beginning graduate student ( which , in your terms , seems to refer to someone who has n't finished his/her master thesis yet ) . Nothing is impossible , of course , but you have to be careful not to end up with no publications after 4 years , just because you were aiming too high . In addition , some journals are very slow to respond , so you might spend half a year or even more waiting for a decision . In the mean time , you can not send this work anywhere else . You should ask students there how the official policy is , it might just be that they do n't want to fund you a trip to a small workshop in Hawaii , but the question could be different if you were to get a paper at POPL . You should also consider that there are good conferences coming to Asia , and many conferences offer financial support to students ( including reducing the registration fee , sometimes even helping with transport/accommodation ) . Finally , if you 're writing your paper with someone else , such as your advisor , this person might be able to travel to the conference and present the paper ( which would be a shame for you not to attend , but it still counts as a publication in your CV ) . EDIT Some clarification : technically speaking , the only important thing is to produce good research , and to write good paper . What you plan to do after your PhD also matters , but if you 'd like to stay in Academia , you will need at some point to get a job , and you will be judged on your papers ( on other aspects too , but papers are very important ) . Now , to answer your question : yes , you could get a job with only journal publications , as long as they are good . Is that the best strategy ? Probably not . Conferences are very important because they allow you to meet other people , to be exposed to state-of-the-art research , to confront your ideas with the community , to get published within a relatively short time period , to receive more frequent feedback , to construct your research project in a more incremental way ( present your idea at some workshop , work on a good conference paper , present the extended version to a journal ) . If I can give you one example , I 've presented some of my work at a workshop with no proceedings ( so it did n't count as a publication ) , and I met there someone who accepted to be one of my external PhD examiners .
The top universities often have a lot of reasonably obscure funding options . For example with the University of Cambridge - if you go through the steps at <URL> they list all their funding options , you 'll see for Physics there are fully-funded scholarships such as these that might be of interest to you : Leslie Wilson Research Scholarship ( # 17,427 per year ) Winton Scholarship ( s ) in the Physics of Sustainability Thalmann Bequest ( covers EU fees only ) Schiff Fund ( upto # 20,000 per year ) Gulbenkian Studentship ( specifically for non-UK nationals ) <URL> The equivalent website for the University of Oxford is <URL> and it reckons 35 Scholarships were found for a new student from Belgium studying Theoretical Physics ( DPhil ) so I 'm not going to list them all here !!! Best of luck !
This is an invitation to discuss your plans for obtaining external funding . They want your answers to questions like the following : What agencies fund research like yours ? What projects do you have that you think would be successful in gaining external funding ? Why do you think you would be successful ? Can you point to similar ( but not too similar ) projects that have been funded ? Why would a funding agency agree your work is worthy of support ? Why would they agree that you are a qualified person to carry out the work , and that your project is likely to actually produce useful results ? How would you convince them ? What supporting evidence would you use ? How large would those grants be likely to be ? How do you know ? When do you propose to begin applying for such grants ? Is there anything specific that needs to happen first ? Do you have collaborators in mind with whom you might co-apply ? Have you discussed this with them ?
end question
start question
Can I conduct psychology research involving my restaurant customers without their explicit consent ?
I assume you are in Namibia , based on your profile . It is actually very hard to determine what the relevant laws of Namibia are , so I suggest contacting one of the senior faculty in Human Sciences at UNAM , who are most likely to know what the review procedure is ( for instance , what the committee is called -- in the US , " IRB " , which stands for " Institutional Review Board " , has the authority to review human subjects research -- they will know how " human subjects research " is defined locally ) . For example , you would want to know whether it is against the law to photograph or record persons in public without their consent . It is possible that there is no law regarding privacy , beyond Article 13 of the Constitution , which would not be relevant here . Even if there is no statutory restriction against citizens conducting unapproved research , it probably could contravene university rules , and you could be expelled for conducting such research , or you could be forbidden from using the research . Plus , the owner of the restaurant could fire you for messing with his customers .
Great question ! I found myself in similar situations as a student and likewise as a mentor for other students when talking with people working on similar topics . A favourite quote of mine is from George Bernard Shaw : " If you have an apple and I have an apple and we exchange these apples then you and I will still each have one apple . But if you have an idea and I have an idea and we exchange these ideas , then each of us will have two ideas . " I believe this is an ideal philosophy for research in a sense that ideally , everyone should gain from the free exchange of ideas . However , as you gain experience , you realize that it can be just an ideal . My first experience concerning the cost of openly sharing results was when I was a PhD student . Early on , I had the basics of what seemed like an important result for the community and had some initial results . My supervisor urged me to try and publish but the paper was borderline rejected from the conference with comments like " nice idea but still too early " . I thus published it as a poster in the informal proceedings . In the meanwhile , my supervisor and I had been in conversation about how to progress further , get more results and mature the work . He presented the poster , spoke with various people and told me that he had had lots of interesting conversations : lengthy conversations with two senior researchers in particular . I continued working on the problem . My supervisor and I had some difference of opinion on the direction the work should go in ( theoretical vs. applied CS basically ) . We got bogged down in some theoretical questions where I felt the impact could be on simplifying the problem and working on the applied side . I missed the next deadline for the conference in our area but lo and behold , two papers were published that pretty much had developed the applied side of the idea . I read the two papers and realized that both had , in parallel , at the same venue , developed the ideas I had been working on ... with one or two interesting side observations . Both works were from groups of the two senior researchers my supervisor had talked to . One cited my informal/preliminary results as an inspiration , the other did n't cite it at all . Four years later , the first paper now has 175 citations in Google Scholar , the second paper has 100 , my paper has 41 . I published a later paper on the topic that 's doing a little better , but for sure , the early birds had taken the worm . In part I 'm happy that the idea was developed and they did add new ideas , and I 've worked on various things since , but I honestly still regret not having formally marked the idea further before my supervisor exposed it . I also regret not being more urgent in getting the full work published . This is not to suggest that you should stay tight-lipped at conferences or turn down all collaborations , but if you 're worried about someone entering into competition with you , you might want to listen to that concern . I do n't think it 's at all unreasonable to not share every idea you have when you attend a conference . There are plenty of anecdotes of tight-lipped researchers : <URL> . If you think the person is someone you can trust and someone who could help in a collaboration , listen to your gut . Test the water and see how knowledgeable they are or how they could contribute . Be careful if you have co-authors , not to talk about their ideas . If you want to collaborate , perhaps publish a technical report or a pre-print to mark your ideas first . If in doubt , you do n't have to tell them about your ideas straight away . Maybe stay quiet for the conference and email them later if you think you want to work together or to tell them about your ideas .
The IEEE makes their ' Taxonomy ' available <URL> ( linked to in their Author FAQ under the Publications page ) , but this is only a hierarchical list without the designations you have given to identify something as the C.2.1.h topic . Surprisingly ( to me ) , neither the author kit nor the editorial manual discuss this hierarchy . In contrast , for the American Institute of Physics , the PACS codes are available on-line at <URL> .
You could try adapting one of the existing open source licences , with help from your university 's Legal IP team . But a software licence is the wrong tool for the job . One way to do it , is to write a methodology paper . That 's the paper that then gets cited by anyone using your code , or an adapted version of your code , to produce material for subsequent papers . As the paper you published was just about the results you got from the software , I 've got some bad news and some good news for you . The bad news is that you 've got to write another paper . The good news is that this new paper will use work that you 've already done . It will be a methodology paper where you describe the software in detail , providing the source as supplementary information . And that 's what will get cited , by those who use your software . You can also include something such as a bibtex file in with the distribution of your software , to make citation easier : the more you can do to reduce hurdles to citation , the more chance you 've got of getting those citations . Once you 've got the above paper written , the bibtex file should describe that paper . And before then , you can do <URL> : To cite R in publications , use Citation strings ( or BibTeX entries ) for R and R packages can also be obtained by citation ( ) .
The customary way to do this is to refer in the manual to the paper . You are probably not allowed to copy-paste the text of the published paper . If you are concerned about the paywall , many journals allow you to use/distribute the manuscript which you submitted to the journal ( prior to editing ) - but you should verify this first for Nature Methods .
I 've met people who were Computer Science PhDs and actually were part of Psychology departments . If you did HCI , I think it gets harder to do Psychology , after all is a whole study area by itself , since yours was more specific . My advice would be to find a laboratory that has both of them , and that way you can get involved in some projects so you can learn other things about psychology I do not presume to know about the filed , but I 'm guessing there are multiple laboratories that might have a psychologist as well as a computer scientists . Essentially , build up your creed as a Psychologist by going somewhere where there is interaction between the two fields .
I 've sat on my department 's graduate studies committee during application season , and so I can provide at least one point of anecdata for how PhD application recommendation letters are used , at least in my tiny corner of the academy . YMMV . First , These letters are among the last things that are looked at . We do n't have rigorous thresholds for grades , GRE scores , subject GRE scores , publications , etc. . But all of those things are used to " objectively " sort the pool . First the obvious admits are skimmed off the top , and fellowship offers are made to some of them . This is the first place where letters are important , since quotes are mined from those letters to try and win funding for these students from the University ( i.e. , we entice the student with a prestigious award , and the department does n't even have to pay for her ! ) The money quote is usually a ranking and/or direct comparison -- " In my twenty years at Giant State University , I 've seen no more than 5 students of X 's caliber . I would say her talents remind me of Y 's at that age , who is now a professor at Prestigious U " -- and this is why even a mediocre teaching letter is more useful for this purpose than a nice letter from a PhD student ( who can not be counted on to have a reasonable intuition for another 's future potential ) . Second , we work our way down to the marginal cases ; this is much more difficult since the marginal cases require a more holistic take on the application package . No one gets immediately thrown out just for bad grades or a bad subject GRE score , but we expect some explanation of a mitigating circumstance ( not an excuse ! ) in the personal statement , and hopefully reflected in the letters as well . For example , if you were dinged in the first pass for a low GPA , we would like to see that it was a bad first year ( and not a bad fifth ... ) ; that you are on an upswing . If you think you might be a marginal case for whatever reason , the letter from the PhD student might be helpful -- perhaps you do n't have any publications , but the PhD student can vouch for your work and verify that you have something in preparation , or explain why your project failed ( projects often fail ! ) but that nonetheless you mastered some state-of-the-art technique on the way . On the other hand it is a big waving red flag if those things are then not pointed out by your actual boss ( the PhD holding supervisor ) . If you think the student will write a better letter , then you 're probably best off having that student lobby on your behalf with the professor , to make sure the professor 's letter is strong , and then get a second letter from someone else . I would strongly recommend you do not ask for a letter from a non-academic unless it was an actual research position ( and even then , these can be iffy if the supervisor has no letter-writing experience ) . On occasion we see glowing letters from a student 's supervisor at their summer construction job , or a call center for a political campaign . Well-rounded students are great , but such letters are almost useless .
I am sure this may vary but this is standard procedure for our theses since they are based on papers . A student will typically have about four papers/manuscripts in their thesis ranging from published through all stages of revision in a journal to not yet submitted manuscripts . You will need to check with your local guidelines what is expected from a thesis to figure out the details but it would seem difficult to demand all published papers unless the period to complete a PhD is open ended .
Ask for the code . Please do , however , explain why you want it and what you intend to use it for . Personally , I would be quite happy if someone contacted me about my research , and would try to give all the necessary tools to recreate my data . Especially so if I am not currently working on a follow up piece . That said , I 've asked for parameters , codes , procedures etc. several times from the authors when the description in a paper has been vague . I 've had a lot of different responses : Some have plain ignored me , others have given me everything I asked for , and yet others have only obliged when I 've suggested that I might be willing to put them as co-authors if I built upon their code in a way that leads to a publication . Finally , some have refused my request . This has happened for a number of reasons , for example those discussed in <URL> . If you ask for code and say that you just want to verify some of the conclusions of the authors or use it as a reference for your own implementation , you can most typically expect a refusal or no reply . This , at least , is the experience I 've had .
One may prove their knowledge by these aspects . They may have a certificate of the courses they have passed . They may have a publication or patent registration in the field of their personal studies . They may have worked in the field of their knowledge and their projects and portfolio is a proof of their knowledge . A website designer may not have any certification of their design knowledge , but the websites they have designed are the proof of their knowledge . You may have done voluntary/paid teaching at your undergraduate university or in an educational institute , so you have the certification of your teaching activity and that may be counted as a proof of your teaching and your knowledge . ( Also teaching/research assistantships to a course which you have never passed but you did assistantship in that area . ) You may have some publications in the area of your knowledge , for instance , a published paper or book ; or a contribution to a publication which is so related to your knowledge . You may have done some jobs related to your knowledge . An engineering design , done some code-developing , etc. . You may have a recommendation letter from a professor in which has written that you have sit in their class for that course , but you have never registered for the course ; so it proves that you have the knowledge of the course . However , as far as you are registering for a graduate program , you must fulfill their requirements not what is generally/logically reasonable or what seems to be acceptable . So it is better to provide all your proofs in your CV or their application process website and let them ask you for more official documents . Also , you can email them and ask for your special issue . P.S. . It seems that your question indicates self-study knowledge , but some people may have done some non-degree programs and certificates of those courses may also prove their knowledge in the course .
You could take the book to a copy shop , and have it binded properly ( e.g. , hot glue , hardback , etc. ) . Here in the Netherlands , that costs about 3 euros for a simple but effective glued back .
I had an experience with along these lines from the other side recently , working with a student to write a plan for the research that he would be doing under me during a three-month visit . We had to be ultra-specific in order to meet visa requirements , but the project had a lot of uncertainties in it . In fact , however , the challenge of writing a specific research statement was quite useful for making sure we thought a bit more in advance and were able to get a fast start once my student arrived . I would recommend getting in touch with the person that you are expected be working with abroad , and set up a time to talk ( Skype , Gchat , whatever ) about some more specific goals . Some good examples of starting points for a discussion : Are there particular types of analysis technique that are likely to be used ? Are there particular pieces of software that are likely to be good test cases ? What is the goal ? Do you want to find security issues , bugs , inefficiencies , usability , portability , robustness , something else ? Or are you just trying to exercise the scalability of the techniques ? What are some intermediate checkpoints that you can use to know if you are making progress towards your thesis ? What should be done in 1 month ? 3 months ? 6 months ? It 's OK if the answers change while you 're there . Everybody understands that research is research and that things may change . But going in with a concrete plan will help a lot in making good use of your time , in understanding whether something has changed , and if so what you want to do about it . And if the potential supervisor abroad ca n't make time for a meeting with you ? Then maybe you should rethink whether this would be the right place to go ...
I think your question is best rephrased as follows : If someone wants to use my dissertation , would it be ethical for me to ask for a payment ? Assuming you are asking about using the intellectual content of your dissertation , the answer is NO . Whether or not that someone is your employer is irrelevant . However , your actual presentation is protected by copyright , which for dissertations is normally completely held by the author . So if someone wanted to use your specific words and/or figures beyond the limits of <URL> , then you have the right to seek compensation .
You 'd need to ask the specific journal if they 're okay with it . I suspect many would be , since many other forms of quasi-publication prior to a paper are acceptable .
This is a good question and I 'm sure you 're going to get a lot of " try doing X " style answers - however , I think it 's important to zoom out for a second and remember that there are two forces which decide what topics researchers investigate . The first comes from within - what you are most motivated and passionate to research , giving you a strong pull factor in that direction . Alternatively , some topics you will find totally and utterly boring , and there is a strong push factor there . When you are young , it can feel like this force is the only force guiding your learning , since you pick your elective modules , you choose which Wikipedia articles to read , etc. . This is probably why you feel that choosing a good topic is going to be really important going forwards . The second force comes from academia itself . Some topics are " sexy " and funding opens up for those topics , pulling researchers in . Other topics go out of fashion , pushing researchers away . This force is created by the hundreds of thousands of people working and funding academic research right now , and is totally out of your control . The significance of this force grows as you mature through your academic career , so while right now you probably barely feel it ( beyond the fact that the electives you can choose from are decided by academics ) , in the future you will be acutely aware of it and how much of an influence it has on your research area . If you ever listen to someone accomplished explain their academic career path , they 'll always tell you it was " unusual " because they started in X and ended up doing Y. " Unusual " career paths are so common place that these days i 'd only be surprised if someone said they started working on X when they were 25 and now at 60 their still working on X . That would be unusual . Of the hundreds of researchers I have ever met , I can only think of 2 or 3 people like that . So long story short , I would n't bother researching around to find other topics you may or may not be interested in , because it simply does n't work like that - particularly in practical/applied Physics or life sciences . You will get funding and find mentors only in the topics society/academia finds most important . To go against the flow in this regard early on is to commit career suicide , since everything you do will be that much harder . No mentors , no funding , no one wants to accept your poster presentation , no one wants to publish your paper , no one asks you to review anything , etc. . So from that point of view , if you want to make smart early-career decisions , look at new/expanding areas of research and find a way to make it your own . Learn to enjoy it because you are the best at it and you are energized by the progress you make , not necessarily the subject matter itself . Keep the things you love as hobbies , or save them until tenure :)
There 's two opposing forces here : You 're probably not doing research if you can say exactly what you are going to do beforehand in the research proposal . At the heart of research is exploration . Hence it is expected that you demonstrate some agency and adapt the research as you explore the topic more . On the other hand , the people who fund you are funding you to work in the area of the proposal . Switching to a completely disconnected topic on a whim is ( generally ) not an option . How far can research deviate from the original research proposal ? This is difficult to give a concrete answer to and it will differ from fund to fund . Most generally , if you can show the funding body a path from what you proposed to what you ended up doing ( i.e. , you can show that your intent was to follow the proposal , but you discovered new evidence that a better alternative was possible and you followed that alternative instead ) , then I think you 're on safe ground . In other cases , it will depend entirely on what your funding body is looking for and how they justify their funds to their bosses . You will have to try understand what the objectives of the funders are : is it publications , creation of a product , teaching and dissemination , contributing towards some high-level national/EU directive , etc. ? Will your new direction likewise satisfy those objectives under what was originally agreed in the proposal ? These are important questions . ( Even if you stuck steadfastly to the topic proposed , groking the motives of your funders and what they will look for during reviews is vital for success . If you understand these motives well enough , then as a side result , you 'll have the answer as to how much deviation is acceptable or even desirable . )
In mathematics and TCS ( which is really a branch of mathematics ) , if you do n't have a proof , you do n't have a theorem . ( You write " experiments " , which I will assume means " computer calculations " . Please let me know if this is not the case . ) Doing some computer calculations can be interesting and even sometimes publishable , but it does not constitute any kind of proof , formal or otherwise . ( Added : Well , unless it does , of course . You can prove a theorem by reducing it to a finite calculation and doing that calculation by hand or by computer or some of both . You ca n't prove a theorem which pertains to infinitely many cases by doing finitely many of them and claiming " and so on " . ) Also , although the word " confirm " is often used in this way in empirical science , in mathematics to " confirm a conjecture " means to prove it . I see two possible questions here : How do I write up computational evidence for a result that I can not prove in a paper ? Can I publish a paper in which I do not prove my conjecture but only have computational evidence towards it ? The first question is more straightforward . You state the conjecture -- i.e. , the statement that you think is a theorem but ca n't yet prove . Some discussion of the provenance of the conjecture is probably a good idea but is not strictly necessary . However , if you got the conjecture from somewhere else you must indicate that . Then you document the calculations you made . Finally , you probably want to make some remarks about why the calculations make you confident in your conjecture ( if that is the case ) . Here sometimes informal reasoning can be helpful : e.g. if your conjecture is that for two sequences of integers a_n and b_n that a_n and b_n are always congruent modulo 691 , then if you check this for the first 100,000 terms then in some naive sense the probability that this happened by accident is ( 1/691 ) ^ { 100,000 } , which is vanishingly small . The second question is much more complicated . It can be hard to publish papers in which you do not prove a theorem but " only " give computer evidence ... but not as hard as it used to be . Mathematics is slowly becoming more enlightened about the merits of computer calculations . I would say though that you need to understand the field much better to be able to predict whether a paper primarily containing computations would be publishable than to publish a more " theoretical " paper : many , many referees and journals will say " no theorem , no proof , no paper " , so you should expect to work much harder to sell your work .
I think there is a slight conflict of interest to the disadvantage of the applicant . You might be more negative in a reference addressed to your own employer ( to whom you may feel a duty to help as much as possible with their hiring process ) , than you would be in a reference addressed to a perfect stranger ( to whom you only owe a general duty not to defraud them ) . People recommend other people to their employers all the time , so this is something the hiring committee should be able to deal with . However , if you plan to actually say anything negative about the candidate in your reference ( " I do n't think this candidate has the experience to be interviewed for the role , let alone hired " ) , then you should make sure that the candidate fully understands the situation before choosing to use you as a reference . They might have other referees they 'd prefer to use in that case . As Kimball says in a comment , the existence of this conflict of interest is n't an ethical problem provided all parties understand it . The hiring committee knows your job and expects to take account of your relationship to the applicant when considering a reference , so no problem there . The student knows your job , so the only risk is if they do n't appreciate the implications of that . After that , if either of them thinks you 're too conflicted to use as a reference then they wo n't ask you for one , you do n't need to recuse yourself .
Good on you ! I have a relatively simple suggestion : do a replication study . First , find a collaborator -- a fellow high school student or college student of similar skill and experience . You 'll learn more in a team than doing it alone . Second , read a dozen or so research papers ( probably conference papers ) in the field or sub-field that interests you the most . Pick one , preferably the simplest one you can find . Your goal is to replicate the methods as described in the paper and compare your results to theirs . ( Do n't pick one where you have access to their code . ) Once you have a paper picked out ( or a few ) , recruit an adviser/mentor -- either a college professor or an experienced researcher . You 'll want to meet with your adviser/mentor weekly to talk about progress and problems you encounter along the way . Mostly , this weekly meeting holds you and your partner accountable for progress . In my field ( Computational Social Science ) there are many simulation models that are simple enough to be replicated from their specification . This varies widely in subfields of Computer Science , so your mileage may vary . The point to all this is to get you an experience in the realm of research without requiring that you first go through all the preliminaries . By focusing on replicating one paper , you only need to understand the material and methods in this one paper . You are n't trying to break any new ground . Instead , you are following in the footsteps of other researchers . If they have done their job well , then you should be able to replicate their results . Replication is a valuable scientific endeavor in itself .
For cases of the type you mention I would probably recommend not naming the brands . The reason for this is that the manufacturer is unlikely to be happy if you say that their equipment is not very good ( and they ca n't all be good or there is nothing to write about ) . This is particularly important if they have given you samples/equipment to use for research . The lab I 'm at has done several comparisons of various software and microscopes for surface metrology and in all cases the equipment/software is just referred to as A , B , C etc. . While from my point of view the reasons for doing this are purely maintaining good relations I expect there is a legal aspect too . I know we have received long loans/discounts on some instruments which presumably involves a contract saying we ca n't publish anything negative about the instrument . If a company has provided some equipment used in this sort of thing you may wish to put them in the acknowledgements . Although be aware this may de-anomimise you data . If very few people make an instrument of a certain type saying thanks to company X makes it obvious what it is . On the other hand knowledgeable readers could probably make an educated guess anyway .
end question
start question
What should I do if my advisor insists on being first author , in violation of my field 's conventions ?
I have unfortunately seen these kinds of shenanigans before , so : know you are not alone , whatever cold comfort that may be . This situation has no " pro , " and has the following significant " con : " you are not getting the credit you deserve for your work . In fields where author lists are not ordered alphabetically , order is used to signify the author 's contributions to the paper , and first-author papers are much more important for things like hiring and promotions . I suggest the following steps . 1 . Talk to your advisor Maybe this is just a misunderstanding , or there are other variables in play you 're not aware of ( unlikely , but possible - see <URL> ) . Have a conversation with your advisor to see if you can clear this up . Here 's your opener : I thought that in IT , usually the student who did most of the work is the first author and the advisor is the last - this is the case in all the papers I have read . Why do you propose a different order ? 2 . Run , do n't walk This behavior is typically an indication that either your advisor is completely unaware of conventions in your field ( charitable interpretation ) , or your advisor is aware of the authorship conventions and is deliberately violating them to your disadvantage , which is extremely unethical behavior . In either case , this means that your advisor is simply unsuitable to be an advisor , to anyone , and you should find another one as soon as humanly possible . 3 . If all else fails If you are stuck with this advisor for some reason1 , be prepared for a very bumpy ride . This is not likely to be the last stunt he/she pulls . However , you can at least try to argue your case : there is some advice on the subject <URL> , although that question does not specifically address the case where the advisor is demanding first authorship for him/herself . 1This site is full of students who insist on staying with a completely unsuitable advisor , for one reason or another . I suspect <URL> .
If you do n't have any problems with graduating next semester then just do that . It will give you more time to refine your submissions and to prep for the defense . A little annoying , granted , but it could be a blessing in disguise too . As for working with your adviser , what 's done is done . Perhaps they were delayed in their responses but you may have to accept some of the responsibility here as well , I think . It takes some time to make all of the arrangements for finalizing graduation . It 's not like undergrad where they can just look at the transcript and say " 120cu , good to go " . Heck , just getting a defense scheduled can be a major undertaking . Especially if you 're trying to squeeze in under the wire . Stack the university processing and thesis review times on top of that and you 're really cutting it close . I can certainly understand your frustration ( my M.S. was delayed by a semester due to a similarly inane set of circumstances which led to all kinds of fun ) but my suggestion to you and anyone in a similar situation is to take a deep breath , relax , and use the time that you have to prep as best you can . Aside : This type of advice question is not a very good fit to the normal SO format . I wanted to provide a response since I suspect that many people have gotten into similar situations but have fair warning that it may get flagged .
Assuming the journals you publish in allow it , you can submit your work to a preprint archive such as ArXiv.org . You can also put it up on a personal website . Even if someone tries to scoop you , if you work is ever published , the date it was submitted for review should appear in the final article , giving your work precedence on any other . As for your concerns about reviewers stealing your work , there is not much else you can do besides the above . The peer review system is based on good faith , and hopefully you end up with ethical reviewers .
Are these works available in any published form or any other permanent online form , such as a technical report ? If so then cite . If not , then there 's nothing to cite . In my opinion , it would look strange to cite a project done in some previous course . What you can do is put an acknowledgment in the back of your thesis/paper to your previous " co-authors " .
I varies with fields and journals . Some journals do allows posting preprints on one 's webpage , or on a preprint server . Some not , but they do n't care . ( And some academicians do put their papers on their websites , even if it is against rules . ) Some do n't allow and do care , so putting the preprint on your webpage may disqualify you from publishing this work . ( If it fits your discipline , why not using <URL> ? )
In general , you can put pretty much whatever you want in your CV ( unless there is a template , in which case deciding what to put or not should be pretty straight-forward ) . The question is : what is the point of putting a piece of information in your CV ? Usually , a CV is used in the context of a recruitment process , where the point , in the end , is to give reasons to the recruiter to recruit you instead of someone else . Hence , a piece of information contained in a CV should be instructive , for instance by ensuring that you do have the proper credentials , or by providing evidence that you can be apt to the position you are applying for . Perhaps attending conferences is something relatively rare in your field , and you have attended more than the average PhD students ? In that case , listing all the conferences you have attended could indicate you are very interested in keeping up with recent advances in your field . It could also show that you enjoy travelling . Perhaps you have secure internal or external funding to attend that conference ( i.e. , the funding was not automatically given ) ? That 's also good evidence . You could list them if it provides evidence for an aspect that you are willing to emphasise in your application . On the other hand , if the conferences you have attended had nothing special , or do not help emphasising any particular point , then you might want to keep the space in your CV for something else .
I will talk about publishing as an undergraduate in a general sense . This may change depending on your field of study , where and how the work is published ( journal , conference , workshop , etc ) and what your level of contribution to the end product will be . Let 's start with the easy question . " Is this good for my career ? " I do n't know of many fields where having published work , perhaps especially as an undergraduate , is a detriment . As an undergraduate with two publications as first name ( in my field the student/person who contributed the most / drove the ground level work is first name , the professor is last name and the names in the middle can range from " was vital to the success of the paper " to " they pushed a button a couple of times " ) and several acknowledgements having those papers gave me a definite leg up against my peers when it came time to search for jobs . Having publications under your name can be invaluable if you choose to apply to grad school but companies are often very interested to see what high-level , field-acknowledged work you have completed . It definitely makes you stand out in a crowd . It may seem like nothing but puppies and rainbows but there 's a darker side as well . Academic publishing is a lot of work . Depending on your level of contribution this can mean weeks of brutal work rerunning experiments , tweaking inputs/outputs , editing and documenting . Most of the people I know , their first paper was a brutal experience because Academic writing is unlike any other writing you have done and there can be a steep learning curve in both the technique and the tools . So , unless you have a burning desire for a publication for publication 's sake , the deciding factors for you should be : What is my expected contribution ? How and where will I be credited ? What are my obligations if the publication is accepted ? Let 's break these down . What is my expected contribution ? In my field a couple of professors coming up to you after the fact and saying " We are looking to get this published " is a bit weird . I 'm assuming that these professors were in some way involved in the work as mentors or that this an extension of their work . It is unlikely that this work is fit to be published in its current state . That 's not meant as a slam towards your work , rather it 's a response to the specifics of publication . Academic publication is often fairly stringent in style and method . It is likely that parts of your work will need to be tweaked or polished for publication ( this really depends on your field to be honest ) and , in some cases , completely redone . It is very important for you to demand , in a nice way of course , a roadmap for what needs to be done to get this work published and what you will be expected to do . At that time you should also try to find out how much of the final publication will be your work vs work from others/the group at large . If you have graduated and are starting a new job or heading off to grad school you may have other demands on your time . Writing an academic publication , especially your first academic publication , can be a serious time sink . This will play into the next part ... How and where will I be credited ? Is your work going to be placed , whole cloth , into a template and submitted ? Then you should expect to be first author ( or your field 's equivalent ) and be given an appropriately large share of the credit . Is your work going to be used as a subsubsection , comprising all of 2 lines in the final publication ? Then the credit to you should be , appropriately , smaller . But that 's simplifying things a bit - author order and credit/acknowledgements should be explicitly discussed early in the process . Get it out on the table and nail it down because differences in expectations can definitely damage professional relationships which , to be honest , is probably the most valuable thing you will get out of this . Things like original contribution level , publication writing/editing contribution level , and time/effort commitment to the project should be taken into consideration . Additionally consider your future plans - are you planning on publishing again ? Are you looking at going to grad school ? Depending on the answers to these questions you may find that the most valuable things you get out of publishing are the experience of publishing and the strong network connections you forge with your coauthors . What are my obligations if the publication is accepted ? This is the final piece of the puzzle . If your publication is a conference or workshop piece then someone will have to present at the conference/workshop . It should , ideally , be one of the primary contributors . If that person is you , will you be able to attend ? Who will pay for travel and fees ? Even beyond traveling for conferences/workshops - Who will pay for submission fees ? Recently one of my papers was 3 pages over the limit ( the conference accepted longer papers at a fee for each additional page up to 5 additional pages ) . This cos
I would thank him in the acknowledgments . Although there is no set standard for what is required to be an author , it is generally accepted that they must make a research contribution . Proofreading definitely does n't meet that criterion ( or any of the other criteria that I have seen ) . I did this in one of my recent papers . I just said : We would also like to thank Bob Bob for his helpful feedback on a draft of the paper .
In my opinion it is definitely worth considering quitting an undergraduate project that you have tried and do n't like in favor of doing more reading that you do like . Indeed you should talk to your advisor about it . To be slightly more specific : Pros : 1 . If I quit , I will be reading some graduate texts . 2 . I will be reading something I like . Reading graduate texts is a great thing for a would-be math graduate student to do , especially if you really like them . If you can acquire graduate level knowledge mostly independent as an undergraduate , that will be strongly beneficial in your graduate applications . Cons : 1 . I will lose out on valuable research experience . I am concerned that the lack of it will render my applications to graduate schools in the US rather ordinary . 2 . I have an excellent relationship with my guide.I am a little concerned she might be disappointed with the switch . ( I ca n't work under someone else for various reasons . ) Doing some undergraduate research is not what will make an application to a US graduate school stand out . A lot of students have done this , and it is not necessarily very impressive . If you do research that is sufficiently good and sufficiently independently done then that will grab people 's attention but ( i ) that is very rare and ( ii ) most undergraduates who are in a position to do that had excellent applications anyway . In your case , it sounds like your research is not going anywhere exceptional . ( But you could be wrong , and this is worth talking to your advisor about . ) You 're right that your advisor might be disappointed . When a student strays from the path that you 've laid out for them , it is usually a bit disappointing at first ... but it happens frequently , and most advisors are used to it . The real question is if it 's disappointing enough to have a real negative effect on you ( or your advisor , but I am less worried about that ) , and the way to find out is to ask . It is much better to ask than to just stick with something that you do n't like , I think .
Now you are a postdoc and not a graduate student anymore . As such , you will have many research ideas , that you will not have the time to implement yourself . So , it is time for you to start delegating this work to " less experienced " workforce than you . That means undergraduate , master or PHD students . So , you should discuss it with your advisor that you have a new idea and that you are planning to propose a new undergraduate or MSc thesis . Perhaps he might even propose , working with a graduate student who is a bit stuck at his current stage of his / her PHD , so working in your new idea might be beneficial to both of you . In any of these cases , co-authorship issues should be discussed early and thorough . For undergraduate , MSc students usually the assumption is that they do most of the work ( it is their thesis after all ) but you write the paper and you get to be first author . For teaming with PHD students , things are a little bit trickier , so these issues should be discussed in detail , BEFORE the cooperation begins . Also , make sure that your PI is OK not to be included in the subsequent publication ( since this is your idea after all ) . Of course , if you want to include your PI in your " additional " publication then by all means , go ahead ( this will also help you bend his objections about the time you will spend on your new project ) . But if you do not , make sure you discuss it before doing it , so you will not get into hot water . In this scheme , not only you can multiply the number of your publications more easily and faster but also you help other people , who might be your future collaborators . So , you really have nothing to lose .
Actually , I kind of disagree with <URL> ... I do n't think you should put negative statements about yourself in your cover letter . While they do not want to only here how awesome you would be , they do want to hear how , and why , you would be totally awesome working for/with them . You can look up some tips and guidelines about writing a cover letter <URL> . I also think that any half-page story has no place in your cover letter . It should be fairly short , clear and memorable/striking . I was suggested , two pages maximum . One page is better . But , if it was an important experience for you as a potential researcher , there 's definitely place for it in your cover letter , just not directly . What you should include , however , is : what helped you get back your motivation ( you can say that e.g. a project made you " rediscover your love of science " without explicitly saying that you lost it for a while ) how your approach to research has changed in a positive manner ( e.g. working on the team project made me realize how important and helpful peer input , informal discussions and exchanging ideas was for my productivity ) how your vision of science/yourself changed after that ( e.g. working with Professor X. what made me secure in my opinion that I want a career as a researcher ) basically , any positive result of your experience is worth mentioning , but I would rather mention just what triggered the positive change of attitude instead of motivation-less period before
Regardless of whether it is homework or any other sort of technical document , the correct date to put on a technical document is the date of its most recent revision . If the history is important , other dates can be added as well ( e.g. the submitted/revised/accepted dates on some journal papers ) . As for your professors never saying anything ... they likely had no reason or even ability to discriminate between the different systems you used to date , and it likely did not matter for the purposes of the class .
I do n't think there 's any good way to include these papers on your CV . It 's not conventional to list anyone else 's papers on your CV , so by default everyone will assume you are one of the authors of each paper you list . If you are n't exceptionally clear , so clear that nobody could possibly misunderstand even if they are just skimming and not reading carefully , then you could easily upset people and give the impression that you are misleadingly inflating your publication record . I think you could probably write it clearly enough ( e.g. , a section called " Papers in which I am acknowledged but not an author " or something equally explicit , in a substantially different location in the CV from your own papers ) . However , drawing too much attention to this unconventional choice would itself be a problem . You want the most attention-getting part of your CV to be your own accomplishments . If readers get distracted by something strange , then it will work against the primary purpose of the CV . These papers would count for almost nothing on your CV anyway , so I see no purpose to including them . In fact , including something like this could look bad , by suggested a desperation to list as much as possible , regardless of how meaningful or important it was . The one case I can think of in which it might be a good idea is a student applying to grad school , with no publications yet but with acknowledgments in a paper or two . Then highlighting these contributions would at least be better than saying nothing . ( But it 's not worth it if you are an author on other papers . ) As I was finishing this answer , I noticed the comment that no mention is made of this contribution in the acknowledgments . In this case , the CV is absolutely the wrong place to deal with this issue , since it does n't give an opportunity to clarify . Intentionally omitting someone who carried out experiments from the acknowledgments is unethical , and doing is accidentally is a serious oversight , but your CV is not a good place to accuse someone of poor ethics or sloppiness . ( Without an explanation , nobody would have any idea what to make of this section of your CV . )
It depends on the subfield of computer science . For example , if the paper is in theoretical computer science , then author order is alphabetical , and the equal work put in by the authors is not negated by the author ordering . If in a discipline where author order is meaningful , then it 's standard practice to ( say ) order the authors alphabetically and add a footnote saying that all authors contributed equally to the work .
You must cite them ! Failure to cite photographs and figures is just as much plagiarism as stealing quotations . To some extent , it is tougher to use pictures from other sources , because you need to make sure you have the permissions to use them . You should add the citation in the caption , as well as the requisite acknowledgments required by the author or publisher .
Yes . You could mention it in your SOP and/or in your CV . I have received some applications from students in which they mentioned a technical blog , and so far it has always left a positive impression . In my opinion , keeping such a blog demonstrates : Maturity in writing and communicating ( especially if your blog communicates something technical in an informal way that is not sloppy ) . Organization of thought and effort . Initiative . Love for learning ideas relevant to your discipline .
Recommend not on the first day . I 'm actually in exactly this situation for the fall term , so I was prepping myself mentally for just this issue . In my experience , expressing any uncertainty about the course on the first day prompts almost instantaneous pleading/negotiation/argumentation over any and all stated procedures ( parameters for assignments , grading , due dates , etc. , etc. ) Now , this is partly influenced by the fact that I work at an urban community college where the student maturity level can be quite low for certain courses . If you work at a more high-powered institution then the environment might be different . But I still think it best to be authoritative at the start , gauge the environment on subsequent days , and then if you feel comfortable admitting the situation and/or asking for feedback later on , you 'll be more confident about doing so .
I would not mention this no , this should not have any consequence to the students application , it may be a little out of place . It would be worth advising the student to inform any future places of study about his handwriting he may be able to get some alternate support with regard to exams . I would not see this student as a liability , just maybe needing a little extra support in this area , it is fair for an examiner to not spend ages marking one students paper due to bad handwriting , so long as they give it a fair go and a good effort .
If you do not have publications ( including papers " in press " ) then the publications list can be left empty . If you have papers . You can , however add headings for publications " under review " , if you have any or " manuscripts in preparation " , again , if you have any . You may also have unpublished reports of different types . Such contributions can also be listed under a separate heading . What can be included is difficult to say but in my case , I used to include annual reports I had to write to a super-computer center and a research station , both which were collated with others and printed by the organising body . So any report sitting in a drawer is not valid . Obviously the a " manuscript in preparation " will not be very strong but it will at least indicate that something is ongoing . But , note that a manuscript in preparation should be something worth reading to make it to such a list . In a situation like yours any written material prepared for some official body and with some distribution , can be used to indicate your activities . There is a grey zone which is undefinable ( which is why one generally avoids such listings later in the career ) , so do not put in anything . In short , you need to be able to show these " claims " .
To expand on Dirk 's comment : The status you see means that the reviewers have submitted their reports to the online system , and the handling editor has received an email about this . Now she has to read the comments ( and likely look at your manuscript again to see if they comments are relevant ) , come to a decision , and write a corresponding letter to the author summarizing the comments and justifying the decision . This will in general not take more than an hour . But you should keep in mind that yours is not the only manuscript ( nor , in all likelihood , the only journal ) the editor has to deal with . In addition , this is both the end of semester and conference season in many parts of the world , so it is reasonable to assume that the editor is just very busy with more urgent deadlines , or is n't even in office . ( Remember , editors are unpaid , so this work is on top of the regular duties of teaching , advising and doing their own research . ) In some cases , the final decision even involves two editors ( associate/managing editor and editor-in-chief/communicating editor ) , which doubles the chance of other things getting in the way . In light of that , I would say two weeks is definitely too early to worry and start contacting the editor ; give it at least a month . ( Although I know how stressful the wait at this stage of the publication process is ... )
end question
start question
How to answer " Why is graduate study important at this time in your life ? " , when the reasons are very personal ?
You should probably keep your academic interests as the main point . If you write that you are applying to recover from a tragedy in your life , it might not be clear whether you are actually interested in that specific program ( or are you just looking for something to do ) or whether you might change your mind later . Also , someone could suspect whether you could tolerate additional stress right now . Anyway , if you have been out of work or study for a long time due to the tragedy , it is probably best to briefly mention it .
I do n't think what you 're describing is all that common , and I 've never heard of any sort of systematic program , but it does happen . I ended up spending two months abroad during grad school to participate in a once off trimester program in my area of specialty . There were n't any standard arrangements in place , though : my home university ( very generously ) moved things around so I could do it . I think I 've heard of other cases , all similarly involving unique circumstances like faculty moving around or particular personal connections .
In my experience in the US , I have never seen any sort of decision letter for an application ( whether for Ph.D. or any position ) that gives reasons for the decision . It may be different in other countries , but in the US at least , there are many good reasons to never give such information formally . The actual decision-making process is never as clean and clear-cut as anybody wants it to be , and with the limited information available in applications and even interviews , there are going to be cases where people make mistakes or make good decisions for unclear or hard to state reasons . Lots of good people may get turned down for reasons having nothing to do with them , such as just having too many good candidates in the same area . If an institution gives real reasons in an official statement ( as opposed to something meaningless and bland like " not an appropriate fit at this time " ) , then it is opening up the door for all sorts of potential problems and disputes , not to mention potential legal liability if something could be construed as relating to a protected category such as gender , age , religion , or ethnicity . They also have to worry about seriously unbalanced people who may take it as a personal insult and begin some sort of stalking or harassment campaign ( it happens ! ) . Not giving reasons may feel unsatisfying and cowardly , but it is an easy and safe path for an institution , and as such is generally official policy . Now , if you have an informal trusted relationship with somebody who was involved in the decision process , then it is sometimes possible to get a strictly unofficial take on what may have happened . You might learn things you did n't want to know about how sausage is made , however .
I find that grad students always wait too long to ask for help , either out of fear of looking " stupid " , or out of inexperience , or out of a misplaced sense of stubbornness . If you 've spent a few weeks on something and you 're thoroughly stuck , then you should absolutely ask someone ( advisor , other students , anyone with knowledge ) . You 'd be surprised at how often you were merely barking up the wrong tree , or just did n't know a very important fact or reference , or just had to reformulate the question differently . All of this takes experience , and that 's what an advisor is supposed to provide .
First , it is worth mentioning that there are several models for authorship in use . In some fields alphabetaical is used , in some the last author is considered the important person ( usually project leader ) , in some single author is used even when collaborations are performed . That said , however , the most common form is by weight and I mean weight in an ambiguous way because this is what is usually the problem , weight can be input but also importance or even by bullying . So , the way in which to judge placement in an authorship list has shown signs of collapse , not to mention inflation . To remedy this many journals start to ask for accounts of the contributions made by each author . The notion of contributorship rather than authorship is emerging ( see e.g. the <URL> description of their use fo the terms in practise ) . The ideas are based on the ( expanded ) Vancouver Protocol definitions of authorship which is as follows Substantial contributions to the conception or design of the work ; or the acquisition , analysis , or interpretation of data for the work ; AND Drafting the work or revising it critically for important intellectual content ; AND Final approval of the version to be published ; AND Agreement to be accountable for all aspects of the work in ensuring that questions related to the accuracy or integrity of any part of the work are appropriately investigated and resolved . This has been reproduced numerous times in replies on Academia.sx so you may want to do a search on the <URL> tag and on the term contributorship to see more discussions . So as the idea of contributorship and the definition of what contributions mean the view on author order might become closer to what it originally was intended . There is thus good incentives for listing contributions in paper even if it is not requested by journals . My suspicion ( any certainty will have to come with time ) is that when publications are assessed for job applications and promotions , the contributorship will be increasingly important , and by that coherence between author order ( including appearance as author ) and actual contribution . In the end being high on the list is important , clearly showing author 's contributions is necessary to judge the placement . This , I would argue , is particularly important for early career scientists .
I would pick a major that maximizes your future options . Not necessarily one that will get you a job , but one that gives you a strong foundation so it 's easy to pick up knowledge of other subjects . One good major for this is math . Once you have mathematical sophistication it 's a lot easier to learn other fields , like physics , engineering , computer science etc. . In general , I think it 's a lot easier to switch from math to a more applied field than it would be to switch from an applied field to math . ( Personally I majored in math , and then switched to computer science , which is another major I highly endorse . ) Besides , it is a very fun major . At any reputable university the homework assignments require original thought and no two problems are the same . In terms of career options , most math majors I knew either ( 1 ) went for their PhDs ( 2 ) became traders/took other jobs in the financial sector ( 3 ) branched into software engineering or data science .
My own busy-person email triage has three tiers : No response needed = near-zero cost Minimal response needed = minimal cost Response with significant thought and care needed = significant context-switching cost A brief " thank you " email would go into category # 1 : no bother or burden , but noticed and appreciated all the same . In other words , send the email : it 's not a significant nuisance , and it 's nice to be appreciated .
Your question indicates that you want to use a link to your LinkedIn profile in your CV because " it 'll be far more up to date than the CV in my dissertation . " Are you suggesting that ( a ) you are going to include a CV that is not up to date , or that ( b ) your LinkedIn profile will be updated over time and that you wo n't be able to go back and edit your dissertation ? If you mean ( a ) , then no , you need to keep your CV up to date and a link to an online profile will not work . Your academic CV should always be kept as up to date as possible and it should absolutely be updated before you submit it in an application or include it in a dissertation . If you are doing your CV correctly , it will include different information than a LinkedIn profile and there is a strong expectation that every academic will have one . If you mean ( b ) and are just worried that an archival copy of your CV will be out of date , sure , add a link to LinkedIn or similar . My CV links prominently to my academic homepage on at a permanent ( i.e. , non-university ) URL , which is kept up to date , and which includes a link to the latest version of my CV at all point . I include a date in the footer of my CV although folks will have a date in your dissertation . Personally , I think this is better than relying on a for-profit company and its URLs for posterity . In terms of the QR code , I 'd skip it . These days , almost everybody who reads the dissertation will read a soft copy . A hyperlink will be much more useful . I suspect that a QR code will just end up make the document look dated at some point in the rather near future .
An unmotivated graduate student will usually be a lackluster student at best . These students will be more likely to be distracted by whatever their true interests are . Moreover , in a program like the one you are describing , you will be making a very significant career detour . You would be advised not to make such a move unless you are absolutely sure that it 's something you 'll want to do for the next four years , since you will have a payback requirement . If you 're not sure about it , this is the kind of move that can wreak havoc on your career -- particularly if you ( re - ) discover your dissatisfaction after the classwork is complete , and the service period begins .
@RoboKaren 's advice is good for many fields , and the basic point that you should know something about the departments you 're applying to certainly applies in mathematics -- you do n't want to , for example , say it 's your dream to study number theory in an application to a department which has no number theorists . However , mathematics is extremely specialized , and incoming PhD students ( in the US , at least ) are not expected to have a very specific idea of what they will work on . Most likely , you would n't even understand the abstract of your PhD thesis if you were to read it now . This is true even for the exceptional few students who have done truly substantial undergraduate research ; typically their PhD research is only very loosely related to it . The implication of this for which schools you should apply to is that you should generally aim for departments which are strong in a broad spectrum of fields . Fortunately , there are lots of them . It 's good to say something about your research interests in general terms , but the admission committee understands that by the time you start on your thesis they may have changed radically ( say , from group theory to mathematical biology ) . If you yourself clearly do n't understand that , it can create the impression that you do n't know some basic things about how the field works . ( And of course you do n't ; you have n't even been to graduate school yet ! But nevertheless , you do n't want to draw attention to that ignorance unnecessarily . ) Bringing up research interests is more important for demonstrating that you 've been exposed to some substantial mathematics than for indicating why you 're interested in a particular department . So , to finally come to your actual question : I 'm applying to math graduate programs at the moment . How important is it to tailor the personal statement to the different departments to which I 'm applying ? Unless you 've already discussed possible thesis topics with someone in the department -- which is extremely rare in mathematics and not at all expected -- I would say , not much . Mentioning broad categories like " geometric analysis " is sufficient -- again , as long as there actually are geometric analysts on the faculty ! All of this is intended as general advice for " typical " prospective PhD students in mathematics in the US ( where " typical " includes even most successful applicants to top programs ) . The exceptional few who have substantial research as undergraduates and want to continue in the same direction presumably have research mentors who can give them advice tailored to their personal situations .
The terminology for longitudinal research designs differs somewhat between disciplines . However , to my knowledge most discipline refer to a " cohort " as an entity that can be distinguished by a certain event as for example the year of birth or graduation from high school . The general idea is that there is an observable variable for the cohort membership and that individuals from the same " cohort " have something in common , e.g. the risk to die from lung cancer due to a common time of exposure . Thus , a " cohort study " looks at one cohort or compares different cohorts . In most cases , cohort studies use longitudinal research designs , but there are also cross-sectional cohort studies . The use of the term " panel study " seems to me more vague but a " panel study " is in most cases a longitudinal study which has at least observations from two points in time . Panel studies do not need to focus on cohorts . Hence , cohort and panel studies both look specifically at the timing of certain events and variables . For further information you could for example have a look at the following articles in the International Encyclopedia of the Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences : Mason , W.M. and Wolfinger , N.H. 2001 : Cohort Analysis , in : International Encyclopedia of the Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences , edited by N.J. Smelser and P.B. Baltes , Pergamon , Oxford , pp. 2189-2194 . Duncan , G.J. 2001 : Panel Surveys : Uses and Applications , in : International Encyclopedia of the Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences , edited by N.J. Smelser and P.B. Baltes , Pergamon , Oxford , pp. 11009-11015 .
This is a historical anachronism . The fonts are chosen for the print version of the journal . For a print version , if you use a smaller font , you can squeeze more text onto the same page and print the same paper on fewer pages -- which saves money . So , for print publications , the small font size arguably makes sense . However , today print is less important and the digital format is more important , but journal requirements have n't caught up to this fact . For instance , in computer science , the ACM is a notorious offender : they require papers to use 9pt fonts , which are very small .
Complementary to Suresh 's and Peter 's more comprehensive answers that you should definitely take into account : ( +1 to both ) Use ArXiv ; ie . publish it yourself . Go ahead and write your findings down and put them in public . This will be a good exercise as : you will be covered for plagiarism etc. and you 'll be also able to refer other people 's attention to it . It will be immensely easier to attract people attention to something tangible than just referring to " some idea you think it is great " . As Torvalds said : " Talk is cheap . Show me the code . " ( or Maths in your case ) . people you do not know , can actually find you ; or even cite you for that matter . I know a lot of people who regularly read ArXiv papers to keep up to speed with the bleeding edge of stuff . You might be lucky and really get some attention from people that actually care for your work . you will see for yourself if what you wrote can be formulated in a research paper and it does n't come across as some '' back of the envelope '' calculations . You might even identify where feedback from a collaborator would be helpful . If you think you are up to something good , put it up there . Worse case scenario : nobody bothers and you never know if you were right or wrong .
Is this document important for judges ? You are really asking the wrong question . Any official document that bears your name eternally is important for you and your future . You are a MSc student with probably small number of publications ( if any ) and a MSc thesis is an important milestone on your transition from a student to a researcher . It is also a quite large document ( much larger than the typical scientific publication ) , so writing an excellent document at this scale is a valuable lesson even if you want to work in industry , where technical reports / documentation and deliverables are quite common . Conclusively , you must always strive for excellence and always do the best you can . You must change your student mindset from " Would doing A would get me a better grade " to the adult mindset " Is this really the best I can do within the time constraints I have or could I do better ? " . So you should focus on producing the best thesis document you can ( within your time constraints ) regardless of how lenient the committee might be on judging it .
I 'm not an ocean physicist , or anywhere qualified in oceanography , nor do I have a slight idea of what your topic is on . That being said , research involving water , and any political ramifications that may impact it , typically will impact commerce related to the oceans . In this case , theoretical commercial impacts : Fishing . Your research may potentially result in a ban on fishing , or make it harder to obtain fishing licenses . Trade commerce . Ships are still used to transport goods around the world , including oil . As above , any sort of research that indicates that the oceans may be unsafe or bars certain trade routes will result in economical impacts down the line . National borders . Traditionally , countries own a specific amount of shoreline before international waters . A shifting shoreline may result in a changing border and or possible border disputes . Tourism . Obviously , effects of the water , even perceived , may impact tourism . Insurance . Rising tides = rising premiums . Whether or not these apply to your topic , I ca n't really tell , but it 's better to start with a list of things and then check them off as irrelevant gives the no ethical impact argument more weight .
The reason he might be asking to see your thesis is to get familiar with what you did , and to evaluate the quality of your work . If all the application materials ( your CV etc ) have English titles , he might not realize that the thesis is in any other language . So , I would respond to him addressing what he needs , and not what he asked for literally . I would write an extended abstract ( summary ) of your thesis in English . I would send the following , the extended abstract , conference paper , and thesis . He can gain insight into all of your work from the thesis abstract you just wrote . Your conference paper evaluates your writing . And finally your thesis is sent just because maybe he understands the language . Even if he does n't speak the language , the references , figures , tables , formulas etc. in the thesis should give him additional information about the content and quality of your work , especially in the context of your abstract .
In my experience , citation counts are considerably less important than recommendation letters , but they still matter , especially for tenure . For fresh PhDs , high citation counts are definitely helpful , but they 're not a hiring requirement for most fields in CS . But for tenure , it 's really hard to build a successful case without at least one high-impact ( post-thesis ) publication . Smart committees know to gather citation counts , publication counts , acceptance rates , impact factors , h-indices , and other quasi-objective numerical data from reasonable sources and to compare them with peers in the applicant 's field . ( For my promotion cases , for example , my citation counts were mined from Google Scholar , not ISI , and I was compared against other theoretical computer scientists , not other computational-geometers-who-play-with-surface-graphs . ) Alas , not every committee is smart .
Say you 're a professor reading the application of a prospective student who wants to work on topic X , which is not your specific interest ( your interest is Y ) . You may be thinking along any of the following lines : " I 'm doing Y , and I have lots of interesting research ideas around Y. I want students to help me explore these ideas in Y , so I wo n't supervise a student in X. " " I 'm doing Y , and I can supervise students in Y reasonably well . But supervising a student in X for the first time would require a substantial extra investment of time and effort on my part , and I 'm not able to offer that right now . " " X is really interesting . It would be useful to develop expertise in X . But currently I only have funding for Y ( and PhD offers in our field are always funded ) , so I ca n't take on this student unless they are fully funded by an external fellowship . " " X is really interesting . It would be useful to develop expertise in X in this research group . I 'll take on this student even though I have no interest in or expertise in X. " But then this advisor may turn out to be an ineffective advisor for this student . " X is really interesting . I do n't have any expertise in X specifically , but I do know about the closely related field Y , and I think this expertise would enable me to effectively supervise a student in X , so I 'm willing to take on this student . " ( It may or may not turn out to be true that expertise in Y will translate to effective supervision in X. ) " X is a major up-and-coming topic , which is why I just hired that postdoc with expertise in X to start this fall . With her help , we could definitely get a PhD student started in X. " " I would n't take on a student whose main topic is X , because that 's not my primary research interest . But if the student was working on my topic , Y , I would be open to also pursuing X with him as a side project . " Since you do n't know which of these apply , if you contact this professor , it would be a good idea to indicate that you would be very happy working on Y ( if that 's true ) in addition to your interest in X.
Rtisan is probably right about a local conference carrying somewhat less weight and prestige on a CV . However , there are some other benefits of presenting at a local conference : It 's usually free . With the travel money you save , you can attend another conference far away later on . Now you have two conference talks on your CV instead of just one . ( In other words , " present locally " versus " present far away " is probably a false dichotomy . Even if the local conference conflicts with a faraway conference , there is very likely another faraway conference in the near future that 's just as good . And if the conflicting faraway conference is , like , the one and only awesomest conference in your field , then the organizers of your local conference probably should n't have scheduled theirs to conflict with it . ) Less travel : you get to save a day or two of travel time , sleep in your own bed , see your family , etc. . This may make the conference much more relaxing . Being the attraction : People may be saying to themselves : " Hey , there 's a conference at Podunk University . I think that 's where gman works , so I 'm sure he 'll be there . I was just reading his paper and it will be great to hear his talk and ask him questions . " Networking : as a local at a conference , people are more likely to want to talk to you . For instance , " Hey gman , you live here , can you recommend a good restaurant in town ? Would you like to join us for dinner ? " The opportunity to talk to other researchers informally can be very valuable to a career . Even fielding mundane questions like " How do I connect to the wifi ? Where is Room NNN ? Can you help me turn on the projector ? " can start good conversations . ( Make sure you know the answers to these questions ! ) It can be harder to initiate interactions like this when you are a stranger in a strange city . Help organize : Try to join the organizing committee , or at least offer to help them out . Organizing a local conference is a lot of work , and by contributing to this you will gain the appreciation of your colleagues . It 's also valuable experience , and " conference co-organizer " is a nice line to have on a CV . Finally , conference organizers tend to have more contact with the visiting participants , contributing to Networking as above .
I 'm afraid this answer may be unsatisfying , but at its root , it just boils down to the culture of the field , as determined by early choices in its particular history . Now that it is well established , practices have developed that cement it in place , including clear distinctions between what goes in a journal and what goes in a conferences . Michael Ernst has a very nice write-up of <URL> . In short : Conferences are fast , higher status , higher selectivity , and higher visibility . Journals are where you put a review article or a final " extended version " of a paper ( the typical threshold is " at least 30 % new material " ) . Journals are also important for getting tenure at lesser institutions , which apply the same standards to biologists and computer scientists . This also further lowers the perceived status of journals , since the best departments are less motivated to publish there than the worst .
end question
start question
What should I do if I want to withdraw my paper from a journal but they ignore my request ?
One possibility to put this to an end would be to submit to another journal by an e-mail where you would explain the situation ( the paper has been submitted elsewhere , you withdrew it when you realized it was not handled properly , and you got no acknowledgment of this withdrawal ) , and with a CC to the editor-in-chief of the first journal . That way , the editors of the new journal would know for certain that you withdrew before submitting again , and you would be covered from possible accusations by the first journal . However this corners the first journal in a difficult situation , so it might make them react violently ; I would warn them before hand , and only use this as a last recourse . You can also try to get advice and help from a senior in your field , who will know the editors and might help smooth things out . A third possibility would be to contact a relevant committee in an academic society ( EMS has an ethics committee that could be contacted about a publication in a math journal for example ) .
I think the best answer to this question has already been given as a comment : You should ask your advisor . The fact that you are asking this question suggests that you and your advisor have n't discussed in detail what your thesis should consist of . It 's important to have this conversation , even aside from the particular question you are asking here . ( You do n't want to risk discovering much later that you and your advisor had different visions for what the thesis should be like . ) This is a good answer to so many questions on this site ( I have started to think that there should be an " Ask your advisor ! " closure option ) , but it seems especially true here . From the OP 's comment I can see that the master 's thesis is being done in mathematics . The expectations and requirements for a master 's thesis in mathematics are so highly variable across institutions and countries that I can think of almost nothing ( other than " Ask your advisor ! " ) which would be guaranteed to be universally applicable . In mathematics programs in the US , it is especially unclear what work constitutes a master 's thesis , especially in pure mathematics . Unlike the situation in many other countries , there are relatively few full-time master 's students in American universities , even compared to the number of master 's degrees awarded : in my experience , more master 's degrees go to talented , ambitious undergraduates who get them alongside their bachelor 's degrees , or to PhD students who have decided to drop out of the program and get a consolation degree . In my case I got a master 's degree along with my bachelor 's degree at the University of Chicago , and for such a top university you might be surprised to hear how minimal the requirements were : I had to complete all nine trimester courses that first year graduate ( i.e. , PhD ) students take ( I did so over two years ) and pass a pro forma foreign language exam . [ In particular I did not write a master 's thesis . ] When I went on to my PhD studies ( at Harvard ) I found that I was about as well prepared as most of the other students . I do n't recall that my having a master 's degree came up once during my five years in a PhD program ... with the possible exception that some students would , a year or two into their program , fill out paperwork and pay a small fee to get a master 's degree , whereas I already had one of those so chose to keep my money . Having been heavily involved with the graduate ( mostly PhD ) program at the University of Georgia in recent years , I can say that here a master 's thesis is whatever the advisor and student agree that it is , subject to the approval of two other committee members . Writing a thesis is one route ; there is another route involving more coursework and some exams . Among master 's thesis advisors I 've talked to , the sense is that the student should take the thesis as an opportunity to engage with some piece of mathematics at a deeper level than they have done before , to the extent that they have mastered it and can show this mastery with an original ( or at least , independent ) exposition . This description seems rather at odds with the one given in another answer to this question : NO . Undergrads may get away with using one ( or a few ) papers to synthesize the essence into their own viewpoint , but at the post-grad level you should be reading for width and depth , which means using every seminal work in your field as well as exploring the newer papers on the topic . This is probably a correct description of some academic fields , but not for mathematics . Very few mathematics undergraduates are reading " real " math papers at all . The task of reading , understanding and writing about even one " real " math paper may in fact be sufficient for a master 's thesis . There are even certain papers out there for which rewriting them so as to contain the level of detail and completeness that would satisfy a master 's thesis committee would be a real service to the mathematical community . I think that most PhD students in mathematics do not use every seminal work in [ their ] field : I did n't , for instance . I am not saying that just any old thing will suffice for a master 's thesis in mathematics : I am saying that the global requirements are very few , so it becomes more important to talk to your advisor . I have so far supervised one master 's thesis . My student carefully read and wrote about two papers concerning geometry of numbers and Legendre 's Equation ax ^ 2 + by ^ 2 + cz ^ 2 = 0 . She then tried to extend the techniques of the second paper to diagonal quadratic equations in n \ geq 4 variables . Much of this was easy , but the key was the existence of a " magic sublattice " defined in the three-dimensional case by the necessary congruence conditions for Legendre 's Equation to have a solution . After much trouble ( and some help from me ) , she was eventually able to prove that for more than three variables such a magic sublattice did not exist . She wrote up a thesis which contained exp
Publishing a shorter conference version and a longer journal version of the same article is common practice in at least one discipline I am familiar with ( computer science ) and maybe in others . So that by itself is not an offense . Keep in mind that conference and journal publications are philosophically different and serve somewhat different purposes : Publishing in a conference proceedings is a quick way to get your research published . And of course you also get to attend the conference and speak about your work to people working in your area . Hence in rapidly moving fields this is the standard venue for publishing exciting new research . However , proceedings papers have strict length limitations so one can not include as many details as in a journal article . And most importantly , the review process for conference publications is faster and usually not as strict as for journal articles . Many people consider conference publications not to be proper peer-reviewed publications , and when citing a result from such a publication one must be aware of a very real possibility that the result has not undergone the fullest scrutiny as to its correctness and may be wrong . ( Of course this possibility also exists in journal publications , but to a lesser extent . ) Publishing in a journal takes a lot longer for the review and publication process , but there are fewer or no space limitations , and the review is a proper peer review that ( ideally , though not always in practice ) provides strict assurance that the results of your paper have been checked and are correct ( or use proper scientific methodology and are likely to be replicable , in experimental sciences ) . Because of these differences , in a field like CS one common practice is to submit a short and quick version of your paper to a conference to get the ideas out in front of their intended audience as quickly as possible , and then to follow up later with a longer , more detailed , version of the results , and to submit that to a journal for strict peer-review certification and the accompanying credibility and prestige . With regards to your question , I think there are two potential pitfalls you need to beware of in your specific situation : It sounds like the journal editors are unaware that you concurrently submitted a short version of the paper to a conference . Since you made the conference submission after the journal submission ( which is the opposite of the usual order of doing things , as someone else pointed out ) , there is a possibility that you are violating the journal 's submission policy . I suggest making very sure that that is not the case , and if in doubt contacting the journal editors to inform them of what you did and ask if it 's okay . There is nothing shameful or dishonorable about making such an inquiry - you are trying to do the right so it makes perfect sense to ask such questions . Even if you verify that with both submissions you did everything by the book and did not break any rules , NEVER claim or make a representation in your CV or publication list that the two versions are different publications . That in my opinion would expose you to serious criticism of dishonesty and resume-padding . Benoit Kloeckner 's answer gives a good explanation of the proper way to cite the two versions by including both in the same entry in your publication list . The bottom line is that in some areas it is acceptable to publish two versions of the same article , one in a journal and one in a conference proceedings . I should add that in my opinion doing so is also of questionable value , unless you are in a discipline where this is the standard practice for publishing for the reasons I listed above . You will not get , and should not try to get , double credit for publishing the same material twice .
There are no problems associated with you reviewing a paper again , regardless if it resubmitted to the same or a different journal . Since you have seen the paper earlier and know its earlier problems you can better judge how it has improved and to what extent it is now publishable . You should definitely let the editor know that you have been involved in the process of this paper earlier even if he/she has not indicated the paper has been rejected somewhere before . That information provides the editor with a better perspective of the development of the paper and can make the decision to accept or reject easier since the willingness or capability of the author ( s ) to improve the manuscript is set in perspective . You can always contact the editor and state that you are willing to take on the review but felt it was necessary to convey the information . I do not see it as necessary but it is of course a nice gesture .
One problem you will need to think about is if you aim for a research job within earth Sciences of a more technical job . The latter may be easier because your knowledge is certainly in demand . The former will be more difficult since you lack an Earth Science background . Note that I do not say impossible . Will you compete . The answer is definitely not an easy no . But , the position you will be looking for will need to be heavy on , for example , signal processing to make you of interest . Usually working on data is followed by interpretations of the data in terms of Earth Science applications . You will of course have a definite disadvantage there . Having some documented understanding of Earth Sciences will be beneficial . I would encourage you to find a meeting where you could meet specialists and discuss opportunities and also just see what is done out there . If you are in the US then attending the AGU ( American Geophysical Union ) Fall Meeting in San Francisco ( December ) would be a good option . In Europe the EGU ( European Geophysical Union ) meeting in Vienna ( April ) will be good . There are also more specialized meeting on Remote Sensing . A good way in could be to strike up collaborations where your expertise adds to the mix . Building sensors . The remote sensing sensors are built by electronics experts such as yourself and not by earth Scientists within the earth Science community ( departments ) . Earth Scientists will provide input to what specs a sensor would need but that is usually the dividing line . So the answer to the possibilities lies outside Earth Science , you most likely would be looking at space agencies or physics departments . On the whole , I would say that your expertise is valued in Earth Science but the total lack of documented knowledge in the subject ( s ) will make the opportunities smaller . I need to add that Earth Science , in its widest sense is a very broad and covers many different departments/subjects which is why trying to find some persons with research profiles that attract you a good venture .
Yes , German universities oftten require an official copy of your high school certification , even if you already have a university diploma which implies the completion of a high school . The same happened to me when I was starting my PhD in Germany - I also was required to present my high school certificate , although I also had two university diplomas ( bachelor and master ) . In a similar manner , both of my university diplomas were required .
Most established academic journals are indexed in what are logically called " journal indexes " . These indexes commonly record all publication metadata , and usually also include a record of all citations . Such indexes are thus called <URL> . Now , the problem with viXra is inherent to its " alternative " nature : it is most definitely not indexed by conventional players ( Web of Science , CrossRef , PubMed , CAS , etc. ) . You thus have two ways of looking for citations to your paper : <URL> includes content from viXra in its results ( see <URL> 's first hit , for example ) . It probably also records citations of such articles , but the quality of citation matching is limited by Google 's heuristic algorithms . They 're good , but not as good as DOI-based mechanism that commercial databases nowadays employ . A regular web search with you name , or the title of your paper . This is not as automated , but it may give good results as to who is citing your work , especially if this is one of your first papers and you do n't yet have a large web presence . ( Obvious caveat : if your name is John Smith or Li Wang , web search will not help much . )
" ... a quick - one , two , you 're published ! " That 's not how it works . What works is : Make it a publicly available preprint ( online repositories like arXiv , a preprint series of some institute , university , maybe via your personal website or blog ... ) . Submit to some peer reviewed journal that complies with papers that are available as preprints ( and there are journals that do not cost you anything ; you will not get " open access " for free , but in many cases the preprint can stay freely available ) . Put the paper in your CV and add " submitted for publication " . Then the paper will be visible and checkable and it also shows that you know how scientific publishing works .
I 'm not entirely sure about what kind of publications you are talking about when you say ' published by vendors ' ( white papers , brochures , user manuals ? ) . But if you are referring to scientific literature , my answer is : by all means . I do n't se why you would refrain yourself from commenting the possible limitations or drawbacks of published methods . Just stay modest and consider the possibility that these publications came out a while ago and that the general knowledge in the field improved since then . Being critical , if done properly ( give objective reasons ) , is certainly something to be encouraged at the Master 's level , and yes the appropriate section for this is the " State of the art " section .
Small errors that do not affect the results or conclusions of the paper are normally handled through publication of a correction ( or erratum ) . This is handled by the journal editor , who will be in contact with the authors for confirmation that they agree as to it being an error , and provide for the exact correction to be published . The journal that published paper should have a policy on corrections , check it out ! Physical Review Letters 's editorial policies and practices state , for example : Errata . -- The Errata section contains notices regarding errors or omissions in papers previously published . Besides the standard Erratum , several special categories of documents may appear in this section . In the online journal , each of these documents involve bidirectional links between the original article and the document in the Errata section . The category of the corrective document is indicated in its title and in the link from the original article . The standard Erratum is a statement by the authors of the original paper that briefly describes the correction ( s ) and , where appropriate , any effects on the conclusions of the paper . Thus , what you should do is : Make double sure it is actually an error . Then ask someone else to double check it again . Preferably someone more senior , i.e. with some experience of academic publication . Write to the corresponding author , pointing out the error . Be nice , and make real sure not to assume to worst . You say " this is a pretty big mistake and suggests they have n't actually read the paper they referenced " : depending on context , it could actually be something minor like a copy-paste mistake ( pasting the wrong reference , when they meant another paper ) If you do not obtain a response , or they respond but do n't intend to correct the error , then consider contacting the editor . I can understand why , as an undergrad , you would consider contacting the editor directly without writing to the authors first . However , as long as you remain professional in your correspondence with them , I think it 's best to contact the authors first . It 's more polite , and they may actually be able to provide you with some explanation you have n't thought of . Contacting the editor before the authors is somewhat overdoing it ...
Such resources , especially if they are a supplementary to the paper , i.e. in some sense a part of it , should be referenced in a footnote and not in bibliography . Do include not only the URL but also a short description ; and do try to keep that URL valid - once you publish that link , it 's frozen forever . It also helps to include the opposite citation . In the readme file of that library , include full citation information of your paper . This will allow others to gain extra information about the methods , and also give you citations if/when others build upon your work . Some publishers also support binary attachments for supplementary information . If they do , you should use it - prepare a package of the current stable version and upload it there . It allows for reproducability , as a specific version is referenced which relates to the actual paper , and not some improvements done in 2020 that change everything ; and it also attaches all relevant information together with the paper at the publisher 's site , which will stay valid even if that github repository goes away for whatever reason .
There are multiple questions that remain unanswered here : Did you meet all of the deadlines for the admissions process ? Did the people who wrote your letters of recommendation send in their references on time ? Did the school promise you a reply-by date ? If so , why did you not contact them at that time ? Did you get an email confirming that the application was complete ? If any of those were missing , then it 's entirely possible that you did n't have a complete application -- in which case , the school is not necessarily required to do anything , because they do n't have a complete record to consider . Moreover , a lawsuit is a horrifically bad idea under the circumstances -- it 's far more time-consuming and expensive than anything you 're going to get back from the school . It 's a waste of your time and money ( unless they rather unlikely made written promises of admission , in which case they may be in bigger legal troubles than just having to return an admission fee ) .
Yes , that 's a problem , and you will absolutely want to fix it . The problem is that it 's actually a two-stage problem to correct : First , you will need to contact the journal to fix the citation . Then , after the citation has been corrected in the article , you 'll need to submit a correction request to the various citation trackers ( such as ISI and Scopus ) . They will need to fix your citation in their database , if the article has already been entered . Note : It may or may not be possible to correct the journal -- the editors may or may not be willing to issue a correction to fix a reference . However , it may be possible to correct the reference with the citation indices , even if it 's not correct in the journal . However , the road will be tougher ; you 'll need to show that the paper that should be cited is indisputably yours .
Do not send too many emails -- this will undoubtedly annoy a professor who is possibly on vacation somewhere when they return to see 10 + emails from the same undergraduate ( ? ) . As to your second point , that is absolutely a no . Why are you even asking professors with whom you are not close enough that they do not even think that your major is related ? I feel like you may have more major problems , but I would not send more than a couple of emails at this time . If anything , the fall semester will begin soon and you can approach any professors in person to ask for a letter .
If the paper has not yet been accepted for publication , you are free to withdraw the paper from consideration . Depending on the policies of the journal to which you submit the article , you may need to disclose the prior submission , and explain why you withdrew the publication from consideration . Unfortunately , there 's little you can do to stop the publishers of the first journal from doing something unsavory with your article . You will need to exercise vigilance in monitoring the work in this area to ensure that the paper is n't mishandled or worse . Be sure to maintain records of all of the correspondence you have had with the journal -- and make sure of all it is documentable -- phone calls wo n't suffice here . However , if all the journal has is a PDF of your original article , it makes it a lot harder to do anything with it : it is tedious work to convert it into the template that most publishers use without significant effort . Thus , without the original graphics and text files , it will be difficult for them to " transmit " the paper elsewhere .
I always use Dr. ______ whenever I am e-mailing someone at a university and do not know if they have a doctorate . If they do have a doctorate , I have n't insulted them . If they do n't , they chuckle and are pleased .
It is n't much clear as to why Mr. K would insist you to work with Ms. E . It might be either of the following It might most probably of Ms. E 's suggestion/influence . They might be on the same team ( @virmaior 's point ) Mr. K has just got another student he prefers over you . To figure out why and how to react bases on why , @demitau 's suggestion would be most appropriate ; speaking openly with Mr. K should provide a solution . If the answer to the last question is what you require ( how to let Ms. E know I 'd rather work with Mr. K ? ) then the most diplomatic approach is to say something like this : state that you feel much honoured to work with her . But it seems you current research interest are much inclined to that of Mr. K. Hence the decision .
If you want to try making a few changes , to see if they have a positive effect , before deciding , here are some ideas : Each semester , take one of the classes you 're interested in . Before reporting the week 's results to your advisor , anticipate what he might prescribe as the next step . Write up your ideas about next steps each week , to show to your advisor for his opinion and/or green light to go ahead as you proposed . Set aside one or two hours every day for literature research ( reading of papers ) . In the beginning it might take you more than a week to get through a paper , but it will get easier with practice . Please note , your distractibility is something you could talk over with a doctor ( general practitioner ) , if this is a significant problem for you . There are a number of things you and your professors can consider trying that might help . If your doctor screens you and finds a noticeable difference between you and the general population in this regard , you can get some assistance with management of the distractibility from your university .
As Peter Shor indicates , one can not uniquely decode the professor 's intent from this response . You 'll have to get more information from him to be confident of his motivations . Let me say that taking on a coadvisor could show a lack of confidence in the student , but more commonly it shows an advisor 's lack of confidence in her own experience or is done for a good , subject-oriented reason ( i.e. , to bring in specific expertise ) . My first PhD student -- taken on when I was not yet tenured -- was coadvised with a more senior faculty member . This was because I was nervous about myself , not about him ( he was really great ) , but independently of my own gingerness it turned out to be a very good idea because his second adviser imparted some key technical knowledge that got used in his thesis in a very nice way . Now ( I am tenured and ) I have four students who are solely advised by me : I got a little older is the main difference . So I can understand this faculty member 's perspective . On the other hand , at least in my field ( mathematics ) advising a master 's student is much easier than advising a PhD student : they stay for 1/3 to 1/2 of the time and the whole experience is not as intense . Because of this , " splitting " a master 's student is less common ( and no examples spring to mind , but then again in mathematics , a master 's degree is more likely to be done rather casually en route to greater things or as a terminal degree ) . From a neutral ( read : uninformed ) outsider 's perspective , I would say that if you 're already sitting in this guy 's research group then that 's pretty close to taking you on as a master 's student . One thing you could try is just to organically increase your interactions without " putting a label on it " . In other words , instead of sitting in on the group , can you actually do some work for the group ? If so , you basically are this guy 's master 's student , and after a couple of months of work it will be much easier for all involved to call it that . If on the other hand you express an interest in doing work for his group and he tells you why you ca n't at the moment ... then there 's your answer . Another tack to take would be to ask the professor for a specific suggestion of who could co-advise you . Then you can take it up with that person ... who of course may suggest single-handedly advising you . I think the suggestion to co-advise without a specific person in mind to do the other half of the advising shows that he is not very enthusiastic about advising you . Good luck .
You must cite them ! Failure to cite photographs and figures is just as much plagiarism as stealing quotations . To some extent , it is tougher to use pictures from other sources , because you need to make sure you have the permissions to use them . You should add the citation in the caption , as well as the requisite acknowledgments required by the author or publisher .
end question
start question
How likely is it that PhD application is not reviewed by professors if TOEFL minimum is n't met ?
I do not know about US schools , but for my UK university the IELTS requirements are non-negotiable . Most of the time we see this right away . Sometimes we screw up and read and evaluate the entire application before noticing . In all cases the student is not offered a place . Other UK universities , especially ones that struggle to fill their spots , sometimes will argue with the administration that an exception should be made . From my understanding , they almost always lose .
Why not ? What 's the disadvantage ? An afternoon of paperwork ? One extra class you have to take ? Compare that to the advantages : Let 's say you are looking for work , ca n't find any in your chosen field ( medicine ) , and so begin looking to work in a chem lab . Being a " medical lab science " major does n't necessarily mean you know how to do a lot of chemistry , it may just mean you know things about handling biohazards like blood carefully . A hiring manager who does n't know your school or that program does n't know how much or little chem is required for such a major . You ca n't prove you know any chem unless they ask for a transcript or you have relevant work experience . But having " Minor in Chemistry " on your rsum would show that . So you could potentially land a low-level chem lab job easier that way .
I think it is perfectly reasonable to expect a timely response , however it seems to be the case that many graduate schools are overwhelmed with applications and underestimate the time it takes to deal with them . A slightly more cynical view would be that many graduate school admin departments are understaffed and do n't have the resources to cater for expected number of applicants . In my case I submitted my application on 28 Feb and was informed that interviews would take place " during the week of the 19 March " . This date came and went and I assumed I had not been successful , so I called the Faculty Graduate Office the following week and was informed that the process was taking longer than expected but I would be notified of the status in due course . On 5 April I received an email saying I had been selected for interview and " we will contact you shortly with an interview date and time " . On 25 April I was given the interview date ( for the middle of May ) . I would recommend that you just call them and ask to know the status .
The big underlying question here is what it means for a paper to be " related to a grant " . Different funding agencies have different rules on this , either a more " staff-oriented view " or a more " topic-oriented view " . Many pure science funds , for instance the <URL> , take a liberal stance on what kind of science can be enabled through each individual project . Essentially , while a project is given to support a specific idea , they are fully aware and quite happy that in addition to , and sometimes instead of , this project , other more or less related studies will also happen by the staff paid partly or in full through the project . At the end of the day , the SNF and other similar agencies care not so much about the specific piece of science that is described in the project , but that some valuable science is happening and that PhD students are graduating . Based on this view , researchers funded through SNF are expected to acknowledge them on every paper they do , no matter if it has to do with any of the science described in the project description . The collection of all papers acknowledging this project is then not understood as " all papers on topic X " , but rather " all topics enabled by funding project Y , on topic X and any side projects that the funded students did in addition or instead " . Other , especially more applied funds such as most of the European Commission 's <URL> programme , are much more interested in specific topics than in funding just about any research . For them , acknowledgements have much more the meaning that you seem to imply , that is , that citing this project in the acknowledgements of the paper implies that this contributes to the mission of the project . How strongly this is enforced or checked depends on the project officer . Most people also seem to take a rather liberal approach in practice , but there are certainly project officers that have formally complained about projects using the allocated funds to sponsor other research . Might he go into troubles if it is discovered by the funding agency that the papers are actually not related to the grant proposal ? So at the end of the day , it really depends on whether the agency actually considers this " topically unrelated but financially enabled by the grant " paper as " unrelated " . I would say , in absence of any other information , you can safely assume that your co-author did nothing wrong , and that the agency may be fine with this acknowledgement .
It depends . What does your acknowledgement say when you had submitted your application ? If you were told something like " you will be informed your result by XX month/year " and you have not received anything in that regard by that period , then you can write an e-mail to inquire the status of your application . If you were told something like " only successful candidates will be informed by XX month/year " and you have not received anything in that matter , then you can write an e-mail to your contact person to know the status . In any case , you can write email politely to know about your application status if you think it is already too late . There is no harm to inquiring application status .
Such a section usually is n't required for papers in my field , but you should probably put something like " Joe Smith moved from The University of Bobtown to ACME , Inc. during the preparation of this manuscript . "
I agree with all of @Nate Eldredge 's comments . If you have a good relationship with your advisor , you should be able to say " This paper lies outside of my field of expertise . I do n't feel qualified to review it ; in fact , even to understand it at a basic level would require me to spend substantial time familiarizing myself with the terminology of a different academic field . " According to your comments , you do not feel comfortable saying this to your advisor . So here is what I would suggest instead : do the reviewing together with your advisor , in person . So for instance you could begin by saying " I started reading the paper you assigned me , and I have some questions I 'd like to discuss with you . When can we meet to talk about it ? " Then when you meet you can begin to engage with all the unfamiliar stuff and see for yourself how far away it really is from your interests and those of your advisor . If it turns out that your advisor does n't understand the paper either , I would try to subtly lead him to the conclusion that neither of you should be reviewing it . If he tries to shove it onto you , reiterate that you are doing it but that you want to get his input . If necessary , ask a question of the form " How would you handle this review job if you were in my place ? " The point being that the advisor is in your place since he is the one who has been asked to do the reviewing . To pull this off properly may require some verbal aikido . The worst case scenario is that after all this your advisor makes clear to you that he does n't care that neither of your have the expertise to review this paper ; he wants you to do it anyway . At that point he is asking you to commit academic dishonesty , and you will be in a tough spot : you will have to decide whether turning in a noncommittal review of a paper that you do n't understand is the least evil .
Letters of recommendation often end with " ... If you need further details do not hesitate to contact me on ... " , and this is not a useless formality . If committee members have some questions about the candidate , they are very likely to email or telephone the person who wrote the recommendation and ask them . The content of the letter matters greatly , but it is even more important that the person who signs under the letter actually knows you well . This is the main reason why a general and vague letter does not make you much good . Sadly , some professors are too busy to write the letter themselves , and they sometimes ask their students to prepare a letter which they are happy to sign . Be vary of this line , as the busy professor is likely to forget your name the next minute you step out his door , and therefore will not be able to provide details on you if asked . This also diminishes the effect of the recommendation , if not negates it .
I must disagree with some of the answers . Some assume that it is a problem with the person asking the question and giving suggestive answers with a very limited number of fixes ( " I would strongly advise performing a major revision on your presentation of the proofs " ; " two potential problems . One is that you may be in error , [ ... ] . The other is presentation [ ... ] " ) . If we are attentive enough , we all know well what the source of our problems are : The magic word is feedback . If people complain consistently that our papers are hard to read , the suggestion to work it over has a point . If again and again referees find errors in the manuscript , we will take much more care to avoid errors ( proof-read , double-check , triple-check ) . But if we get an outlier answer and can not fathom what exactly should be the problem , it is very , very likely that we are not the source of the problem . Working the paper over in this case is a waste of time . The reason ( s ) that a referee rejects a paper are virtually unlimited . He is wrong , she does not care , he is busy , she is right , but explains it badly . Whatever . But what you can do is to read very carefully the answer and ask yourself under what circumstances a person would give the answer . Is it aggressive , dismissive , bored , sad ? It is rather short or more detailed ? Does it look like the referee invested time or it is hastily written with boilerplate passages ? On this you could often discern what the real reason for the rejection is . Everyone will sooner or later have a paper rejected for inexplicable reasons , it is normal . Nothing to be afraid of . That said , the best strategy already mentioned by other answers is to cut the losses and simply go to another journal . I would advise to challenge the decision if and only if the editor made it clear that the decision is not final and then if and only if it is objectively important to have it published in this specific journal . In that case do everything in your ability to check and recheck your paper and hone it to perfection because you will only get exactly one chance to convince the editor .
( I assume here that you 're talking about admission to PhD programs . ) I 'm not in computer science , so I ca n't speak with authority . We have a number of users here who are in US computer science departments and maybe one of them can step in . However , I would think that first-author publications would not be essential for admission to good PhD programs in the US . Keep in mind that in the US system , most students would enter a PhD program immediately after their undergraduate ( bachelor 's ) degree , without doing a masters first . These students would not necessarily have any publications at all . The admission committee would expect somewhat more from a student with a masters , but I 'd think any publications , first-author or not , would be a pretty good sign of your research ability and preparation to start a PhD . Another thing to note is that recommendation letters are very important for admission to US PhD programs . If your advisor writes you a letter which speaks highly of the work you did , that should help your application a lot .
This professor was just trying to reassure the folks who are feeling doubtful or worried . Bottom line : if you feel worried about something , that 's okay , it 's a common phenomenon , and feeling that way is nothing to worry about ; if you do n't feel worried about something , great ! No need to feel worried !
It seems the National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate ( NDSEG ) Fellowship states : What GPA do I enter for my school if I just started attending ? You can enter 0.0 as your GPA -- reviewers will understand that you have not yet received a GPA for that school and will not view it negatively . Link : <URL> Will follow-up if I receive any formal statement from the UCSC Office of the Registrar .
I 'm in a CS department at a mid-ranked school in the US , and have reviewed applications for Ph.D programs in CS for the last 6 years . I did n't compile detailed numbers , but my sense is that the number of candidates with " actual " publications ( as opposed to fluff pubs ) is of the order of 5 % . I suspect this number is higher for the top-ranked school .
Unless the search committee is swamped and is looking for reasons to reject a candidate , a late letter will not tank the application . But here 's what can happen : letter requests are sent out for candidate A and B. B 's letters are delayed . In the meantime , A 's letters come back and they are quite good . The committee starts going ahead with interviews for A. Then , for other reasons , the committee feels that A might suffice to cover the area that A and B both overlap in , and they might move on to other candidates . This would only happen if the letter is REALLY late ( multiple weeks ) . And if candidate B has any level of interest , there 's always someone who 'll chase down the letter writer . So overall I 'd say not to worry greatly , but make sure the letter is n't more than a week or so late . Also it would n't hurt to check with the committee on the " hardness " of the deadline .
In the U.S. mathematics departments I 'm familiar with , writing " Ph.D. " after your name would not be disastrous , but it would be a bad idea . It can look insecure , like you are worried readers will assume you do n't have a Ph.D. if you do n't remind them frequently , or pompous , like you feel having a Ph.D. is an important distinction that must be emphasized , and I see no upside to balance the risk of appearing insecure or pompous . To clarify , I do n't think merely listing " Ph.D. " after your name would undermine an otherwise great application . Nobody is going to take it that seriously . However , it can be tricky to get the tone right in academic job applications , and some applicants inadvertently write things that could be read as insecure or pompous . ( Indeed , it 's natural to feel insecure , and it 's easy to come across as pompous if you try too hard to convince the reader that you 'd make a great hire . ) The danger is that the reader might piece together several small things into an overall negative impression , maybe even subconsciously . From this perspective , it 's safest to eliminate issues you can identify , even if they would n't be decisive by themselves , just in case they might reinforce other things you 're unaware of . Note that conventions for the post-nominal use of " Ph.D. " may vary between countries or even universities , as well as between fields . This is a matter of culture , and you 'll need to figure out what the culture is like where you are applying .
First , I would recommend reading some of the requirements from schools you intend on applying to . Most schools have very similar requirements , but it may be worth looking at the schools that you are most interested in attending before you get started ( page requirements , etc. can deviate from school to school ) . Since you are applying to PhD programs you will want to be addressing the questions of " What makes you an individual well suited to research in computer science ? " and " Why should institution X accept you ? " -- this will involve talking about your past achievements , what made you want to pursue a PhD in computer science , what type of research you want to do , etc. . As far as definitive strategy goes , there are numerous routes you can go ( I will leave a couple of links at the end of this post ) . One that I would recommend is to write the majority of the statement such that it can be sent to any institution ( i.e. , is not institution specific ) . Set it up ( as far as continuity goes ) so that your last paragraph is why you want to attend institution X . This way you will only need to re-write the last paragraph for each application you send out . Here are some helpful links I found : <URL> <URL> <URL> Hope that helps !
Here is what I think about the topic . Acknowledgements section is indeed an important part of any dissertation , obviously , not from a scientific standpoint , but from an ethical perspective . Even if you have a good memory , I would still suggest to keep track of various contributions that other people made to your research and your overall success during the program . If you do n't want to keep track throughout your program , it is IMHO crucial to make such list before finalizing and submitting your final document to the committee . On the other hand , if your memory is not that great , then keeping track of people 's help during the program is a must . As I also was trying to create a nice acknowledgements section for my dissertation , I have seen and read a wide variety of examples , ranging from quite brief and formal to very personal , which read more like a life story ( while some are interesting , generally , I do n't think you need to strive to make that section so - it should be sincere , cover most of people , which help you appreciate , and nicely written in terms of wording ; however , it is not a novel or , even , a story , so I would n't at all worry about the being interesting aspect ) . I think that both extremes ( too brief/dry &amp; life story ) are not appropriate or good , so I would recommend to write several drafts to create a writeup , nicely balanced in terms of content , people coverage , style and size . Since I mentioned above the size aspect , keep in mind that some universities limit the size of an acknowledgements section ( usually , such limits are spelled out in a Dissertation Guide ) . For example , at my school , that limit was one page . Needless to say that it was quite a challenge to squeeze maximum relevant information and keep the contents/style readable and balanced .
I 'd recommend trying to gather some objective data on outcomes . For example , in the <URL> you can search by " name of school " and " year of degree " to find a list of people who graduated in 2014 or 2015 . It 's not guaranteed to be complete , and it sometimes mixes together people who were in different departments at the same university , but it 's usually pretty good ( and sometimes easier than finding this information on math department websites ) . Then you can start googling people , with " math " appended if necessary , to see what you can find . If you ca n't find any indication that someone is working in academia , then they probably are n't . If they are , then you can gauge how pleased you would be with such a job . This should give more reliable data than self-reported difficulty of finding postdocs , because it avoid filtering through the departmental culture . Some cohorts of grad students are optimistic and enthusiastic , while others are more apprehensive , and it 's not clear to me that this correlates particularly well with actual success on the job market . It 's also worth keeping in mind that the relevant issue is job opportunities , not actual outcomes . If one person complains about the difficulty of finding a job and another does n't , you ca n't conclude anything without knowing where they were applying . ( Sometimes students at more prestigious universities apply mainly to fancier postdocs , because they would n't be happy with less prestigious jobs . ) Unfortunately , this is more difficult to gather objective data on , but I think it 's a second-order effect .
I believe that this sort of disclosure can be ethical , especially to a neutral third party , and when only discussing papers that have already been accepted and/or published elsewhere . ( Papers still in the process somewhere else might be different . ) . Anonymity of referees is n't a deep ethical good in its own right - it has very clear and specific reasons , and this does n't seem like a relevant violation . Consider the reasons why referees are often given anonymity : 1 ) to allow referees to give honest feedback without fear of ( real or imagined ) retaliation , 2 ) to encourage authors to engage with the referee 's arguments , not their personality or status , 3 ) to avoid the appearance/possibility of quid pro quo reviews , and 4 ) to ensure that broader perceptions of the article are not influenced by knowledge of its referees . None of these problems would occur by giving the names of articles to a ( I 'm going to assume ) completely uninterested immigration clerk . If you want to be very conscientious , google your contact to make sure they are n't doing immigration processing to make ends meet while an adjunct professor :)
If you feel that A is sufficiently familiar with your work and your expertise and can comment upon those responsibly , then it is not inappropriate to ask him for a reference letter . Your perception of your relationship maybe , however , different from his . And if that is the case he will probably politely turn you down ( he is too busy , he does not feel comfortable doing it , etc. ) in which case do n't take it personally and do n't hold it against him , and certainly do n't force the matter . Having a weak letter at times is worse than not having one at all . If the request was made to a complete stranger , it is possible that person may develop a bad impression due to this request out of the blue . But since you have been in correspondence with A , the worst that can happen really is that he would say ' no ' . To put in a personal perspective : I have had an experience where an expert in the field , who has read some of my papers , and who has invited me for seminars ( and hence whom I have personally met ) , turn down a request for a reference letter because he feel he is not in a position to write me an extremely strong letter . I have had also an experience where an expert in the field agreed to write me a reference letter based on having read some of my papers and having conversed with some of my co-authors . We only had e-mail and Skype discussions after he agreed to write the letter and want to find out more about me and my interests .
end question
start question
Does a survey require an ethical approval ?
The question of what sort of ethical approval is required is a complicated one , depending on the local laws , funding sources , university policies , and journal policies . I do n't think anyone can give a definitive answer without knowing these details . For example , see <URL> for an indication of the rules imposed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services . Since we have the forms of informed consent , are n't they sufficient ? No . If ethical review consisted of nothing but saying " be sure to obtain informed consent " , then it would be replaced by a simple rule requiring informed consent . Even that is tricky ( what exactly are the risks you need to inform participants of ? ) , and there are other issues for a survey . For example , are you following best practices to ensure anonymity of survey respondents ? If none work out , is there a repository for unpublished work like ArXiv in epidemiology ? I do n't know , but I ca n't really imagine the community would look kindly on using such a repository to avoid ethical review . The institute ethical committee denied a post hoc approval . It makes sense for ethics committees to be reluctant to approve research after the fact . One reason is that it puts a lot of pressure on them to approve research that 's not perfect but can no longer be fixed ; another reason is that if post hoc approval is an option , it creates an incentive for researchers to skip the initial approval in the hope of forcing it through the process later .
I do n't think that survey URL 's domain plays a significant role in trustworthiness of a doctoral survey request . What is far more important IMHO are the contents and writing style of the invitation letter as well as having solid professional or academic online profiles ( as most likely most people will be looking you up anyway ) . In regard to the software selection aspect , my advice is to check the following resources : <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Just keep in mind that some answers are posted by people , affiliated with firms - creators of some survey software . Finally , I would like to emphasize that , when selecting survey software , it is important to consider its features and format flexibility in exporting the results for further data analysis ( I assume such analysis is planned ) .
Well , clearly , it depends on many factors ( my answer is probably strongly influenced by the Computer Science field ) . If you want to apply for a non-research industry position , then clearly , the postdoc might not appear as a strong point , unless you can travel , attend conferences , manage a budget , develop an application/software/experiment , apply for patents , etc , in general any transversal skill that you can justify . But if the postdoc is just sitting in an office writing theoretical papers for a couple of years , then it 's probably not the best choice . If you want to apply for a research industry position , then a postdoc can be a good point , although of course , the closer you can be connected to industry , the better it will be . Ideally , you could do a postdoc in industry ( in CS , IBM , Microsoft , Intel , HP , and many others offer this possibility ) .
ETS , which develops and administers the GREs , <URL> of all of the institutions that are officially licensed to receive GREs . If you look through , you will notice that almost all of these institutions are in the United States . Now , there are a bunch of other universities around the world that at least are willing to receive a GRE . As noted in the other answers , however , the fact that an institution is willing to receive a GRE does not mean that it is required or even particularly helpful . It is primarily a US test , and even within the US it is not used by many departments and given little weight ( unless one does horribly ) in many others .
If somebody copies your text , then the fact that you posted this text publicly and earlier on the internet ( in a location you ca n't feasibly control , so it wo n't look like you faked the historical record ) will prove that they plagiarized . It 's a little trickier if somebody in inspired by your idea and writes their own paper that does n't cite yours , since there 's no way to distinguish this from independently coming up with the same idea . It would be unethical to do this , but it could in principle happen . If you pointed out your prior posting , you would deserve to at least share the credit . However , people might still downplay your contribution . " Sure , there was an earlier internet posting outlining the basic idea , but it was n't nearly as well developed and nobody noticed it since it was posted somewhere obscure . The real scientific breakthrough occurred when the idea was independently rediscovered , properly understood and worked out , and disseminated to the research community . " You could end up as a footnote , which is still credit but a sort of grudging credit . I do n't expect this will cause any problems . It 's not worrisome unless your ideal is attractive enough to seem worth stealing , while remaining obscure enough that someone could hope to get away with it . The biggest barrier to intellectual theft is publicity : once enough people know about your idea , anyone who claims to have found it independently will get shot down by someone saying " You may not have known about this , but that 's just your own ignorance , since the rest of us know Awesome Academist came up with this idea in 2015 . You should pay more attention to the internet . " Furthermore , if your idea really stays obscure enough that someone could get away with stealing it , then your posting evidently did n't have much impact on the community and you arguably deserve only a footnote 's worth of credit . ( People deserve some credit for reaching the goal first , but more credit if they make a bigger contribution by circulating their ideas and influencing the research community . ) I doubt you need to worry about theft , but trying to publish your paper formally could help address this possibility by putting your work before a broader audience . Anything worth stealing is worth publishing in the first place , so if theft worries you then you should consider publication .
You should ask your advisor , but it is reasonable for an advisor to allow you time ( potentially several weeks or months ) to essentially be away from the lab and your research in order to interview for jobs . In my opinion , this is a concession that is reasonable to give as a reward for hard work during previous phases of an advisee 's research . If not , the advisor likely does not have the advisee 's interests in mind . That could come back to bite him/her later when attempting to find new advisees . On the other hand , if you 're spending a lot of extra leisure time on the trips that is not part of the interview , then it should probably be considered vacation time .
The best reference is the one that is both honest and based on extensive firsthand knowledge of your qualities . Emeritus status would seem irrelevant to me .
I 'm not an ocean physicist , or anywhere qualified in oceanography , nor do I have a slight idea of what your topic is on . That being said , research involving water , and any political ramifications that may impact it , typically will impact commerce related to the oceans . In this case , theoretical commercial impacts : Fishing . Your research may potentially result in a ban on fishing , or make it harder to obtain fishing licenses . Trade commerce . Ships are still used to transport goods around the world , including oil . As above , any sort of research that indicates that the oceans may be unsafe or bars certain trade routes will result in economical impacts down the line . National borders . Traditionally , countries own a specific amount of shoreline before international waters . A shifting shoreline may result in a changing border and or possible border disputes . Tourism . Obviously , effects of the water , even perceived , may impact tourism . Insurance . Rising tides = rising premiums . Whether or not these apply to your topic , I ca n't really tell , but it 's better to start with a list of things and then check them off as irrelevant gives the no ethical impact argument more weight .
The decision of whether someone should be a coauthor is completely independent of monetary compensation : authorship depends on what sort of intellectual contribution each person has made , and it would be unethical to treat them differently based on their job ( paid assistant , student , colleague , amateur , etc. ) . People in different roles may be treated differently based on their contributions . For example , an assistant who does no creative or insightful work , but instead just carries out explicit instructions in a straightforward way , should generally not be a coauthor . ( Still , the assistant should be thanked by name in the acknowledgments . ) When the assistant 's work starts to involve exercising nontrivial skill and judgment , coauthorship may be appropriate . If the assistant is doing a serious part of the creative intellectual work , then coauthorship is mandatory , even if the supervisor 's role is deeper .
You could write something like the following . Short and sweet . To the editor , Please find attached an article for consideration for publication in the journal Phytoneuron . I assert that this is an original contribution and it has not been submitted for consideration elsewhere . Could you please acknowledge receipt of this submission ? Best regards , Your name Your Affiliation Title of Article Authors Abstract Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet , consectetur adipiscing elit . Proin egestas odio non mi mattis rhoncus . Vivamus ultrices urna a ante tristique pellentesque . Nam tincidunt lacus a mi sollicitudin tincidunt . Curabitur malesuada , quam sit amet iaculis lobortis , enim lacus commodo turpis , nec elementum mauris libero ac enim . Quisque justo mauris , eleifend id ornare vel , luctus eget tellus . Etiam auctor ultrices tincidunt . Curabitur diam nulla , aliquam nec gravida a , consequat non nulla . Cras viverra massa id felis blandit gravida . Pellentesque enim mi , convallis vitae ornare quis , ornare sit amet dolor . Pellentesque velit urna , feugiat non tincidunt in , sollicitudin sed purus . Phasellus laoreet ligula nec odio mattis fringilla . Fusce sed arcu mi . Pellentesque dictum erat sit amet sapien pharetra porta .
As a general rule , my PhD students need to do two things to get a PhD : Publish 3-4 papers on a coherent topic , mostly in top-tier theoretical computer science conferences , including at least one paper without me as a co-author ( and preferably at least one paper that was previously rejected ) . Jump a bunch of administrative hurdles : do n't screw up classes , do n't screw up TAing , pass quals , gather a committee , propose a thesis , write a thesis , defend a thesis . That 's it . In my experience , most PhD students do way more than this . A couple of comments on the original question : Very few students " finish " their thesis topic . Equivalently : If a research question can be closed in just one or two papers , it 's probably not a good thesis topic . Good research opens as many new problems as it solves . Reaching the point where further collaboration with a student is unproductive means the student-advisor relationship has failed . Sometimes students really do exhaust their research potential , despite their advisors ' efforts ; in my experience , those students usually do n't get PhDs . ( Most successful students reach " critical mass " long before they finish . ) More often , this happens because the advisor is n't giving the student enough appropriate guidance .
In this context reviewer and referee are basically synonymous . In mathematics I think referee is more common , but I think in some other fields reviewer is used more often . In mathematics , " reviewer " also can mean someone who writes a review of a published paper , such as on <URL> , but in the context of journal submissions this usage is not relevant . In my experience though I have never seen a list of reviewers from which you can select though , only to choose the editor that handles your submission . But perhaps some journals do offer this possibility .
I think you have largely hit the nail on the head in your own post . There is nothing intrinsically wrong with charging for valuable experiential information . In fact , this really could be an extension to charging for ' edits ' or tutoring . Really if they are providing non-sensitive information regarding the procedures and what the admissions panel look for - then I do n't see any major ethical quandaries . However , you highlight a key point . They could be leaking information explicitly obtained from the panel ( that I assume they would have delivered in confidence ) . If this is the case , then I imagine it should be intuitive what the schools reaction would be . The reason this is unethical ( from my POV ) is that they are no longer sharing experiential information , but providing them with explicitly ' leaked ' outcomes that would give a disproportionate advantage . By analogy with the edit example . It would be fine for a tutor to edit and provide feedback on a students work . To the majority of people , I think they are aware this occurs and there are no ethical problems . In fact , a tutor might go so far as to show them example assignments . In fact , my department actively encourages students and postgrads to seek and help out students , respectively . However , if the tutor provided the marking key ( obtained from another postgrad running the unit ) and gave this to the student - that is blatantly unethical .
" I contacted the communications department via e-mail and asked if it is illegal and/or unethical to apply . Response said that company employees can apply , which means , I can apply . " I think that answers the ethics about it as well . As long as you are open about the fact that you are a company employee , there is no scope for you to violate any ethics . Any possible violation ( which I do n't think there are any ) would be in the company 's hands . Think about this - why is the company offering a scholarship ? They probably want the recipient to graduate and then work for the company . Thus by attracting top students to apply for an attractive scholarship , they gain a highly skilled and motivated employee . Sure , the fact that you already work for them might give you an advantage in the application process . But this is a private company giving out privately earned funding . They should be able to pay whomever they choose , for whatever reason . In the end , there is really little difference between this , and an internal hire .
Yes , you can list this as an invited talk . Even though the first invitation was not to you , the second invitation most certainly was . Here is another way of thinking about it that may make it clear : imagine that rather than inviting your professor , the organizer has simply asked your professor : " Who do you think would be good to invite to my session ? " and your professor suggests you . This would clearly be an invitation ( albeit one where you benefit from your professional network , which often happens ) . The only difference between this situation and yours is that the suggestion was preceded by a failed invitation of your professor .
The description of this particular fellowship includes the phrase : Winners are chosen based on individual merit , including academic performance and preparation , intellectual capability , English proficiency , and the potential for contribution to scientific education and research in Vietnam . " Leadership " means the ability to work with and through others . It is much harder than people think - a good leader is humble yet decisive , a good listener yet able to motivate ; he can synthesize the thoughts of the group into a common goal and vision , use that vision to obtain resources and allocate them in a way that helps the group achieve its goals . Doing all that without appearing to be " the boss " is real leadership - something that comes with practice . Selling cookies to support your local charity is initiative ; getting together with your friends to sell lots of cookies and build a new school , that 's leadership . I have heard it said that Leadership is what bridges the gap between responsibility and authority Leadership lets you change the scale of your impact ; and since this particular fellowship is explicitly created to find individuals who will have impact on scientific research and education in Vietnam , you need people who have both the academic skills and the skill to translate this into impact " on the system " . Demonstrated leadership experience is an opportunity for the selection committee to explore whether you will be able to make an impact - they are not looking for the next CEO , but you will be amazed how much difference a good leader can make in any collaborative environment . In the US this trait is becoming so highly valued that some high schools have an explicit course " Leadership " on their curriculum - a chance for students to develop and practice these kinds of skills , often in the context of community projects . It is obvious from the selection summary that intellectual ability , preparation etc. are most important - but I hope you can see that leadership as I tried to define it here has a place in this academic environment .
Some universities allow faculty to nominate those chosen for honorary degrees . From what I understand , some even allow certain members of the graduating class and/or student council to nominate &amp; vote . At other institutions , the senate , department heads , deans , president or chancellor may pick the candidates . Some institutions may have a nomination body and a voting body . I would think that it depends upon the size of the institution . To find out for sure , check out websites for specific universities . Often times universities have focused areas of research or a campus wide research goal for which they have TONS of funding . On most occasions , honorary degrees are awarded to those who are conducting research in that field . They often award honorary degrees to those who are active in their communities as well . Another common thing with honorary degrees : once an individual has been granted one other institutions will sometimes scramble to recognize that person as well . This is especially true if both institutions are located in the same area , or if they largely focus on the same research matters . People who make a difference on a global scale are often chosen as recipients of honorary degrees not only because they 've made a difference ... BUT because a university is , after all , still a business . If they give someone famous an honorary degree , you can bet it will be on the news . It will even get better coverage if other universities have also awarded the person with honorary degrees ! Sometimes they look for a unique person to give an honorary degree to - because that will also get more coverage ( for example , people from minority groups or from third world countries ) . Each university has their own policy regarding nominations and different criterion , but they 're all about creating a buzz . They may pick a First Nations community leader as a recipient in hoping that they will attract more students from that community ... They also use honorary degrees as a way to network . If they want to meet their idol , they award them with an honorary degree so that person has to come and meet them to accept it ( it is , after all , only polite , right ? ) . If you 're curious about individual schools , you can look up the honorary degree recipients - they will often state why the person was given the degree . The key thing to remember is that they could come across anyone and find a reason to nominate them . They may see a firefighter on the news who saved the lives of people by rushing into a burning building . They attribute great courage to that person , so they nominate them to receive an honorary degree in emergency service operations . Their spouse , friend or neighbor may tell them an inspiring story which urges them to do more research on the person ... Then that person ends up nominated ! Yes , they have criterion , but it is flexible . They can word their statements for nomination in such a way that anyone would be fit for an honorable degree .
Unless I totally misunderstand what kind of colours we are talking about , your student did what I would consider best practice . Using a consistent colour scheme for all figures in a publication or presentation is a good thing for the following reasons : It is aesthetically pleasing , in particular on posters and presentations . If two plots have colour axis for the same variable or measure , it facilitates comparing them . If colours encode the same things across plots ( e.g. , red is always species A , blue is always species B ) , it increases readability , as the reader does not always have to check the encoding for each figure . This also holds across publications , if they are about the same topic . this makes it harder to see which figures are cited from the paper and which are his own Citations should suffice to indicate this . You can not rely on stylistic mismatches to detect images from other sources anyway . I put some effort into it As <URL> , developing a colour scheme is rarely a scientific achievement . And even if you consider it to be one , your student can cite it and reuse it . After all , being reused is what scientific results are for . Remember that many scientists use plotting and typesetting programs developed by other scientists . An acknowledgement does not hurt though , but I would probably not be very insistent on it .
As with any situation , there are many levels to any answer ... Mainly , the question is : was the data-set published ? If so , who owns the copyright ? Probably not your professor , but the university . If it was n't published , then it is n't ethical to use the records you kept of it for another purpose , without authorization from your employer . However , there might be a solution , regardless of your fall-out before graduation . [ 1 ] Just get your current advisor to ask him ! One staff researcher to another , the situation is not the same as you dealing with your formed professor . [ 1 ] I am amazed at how many times I have read this situation ( I can not speak to my adviser/professor / ... ) raised in questions on this site ! Every time , I think : before or around the time of graduation , are n't you a bit young to make " enemies " ? I can sure name many people I thought fools or who annoyed me during my studies and early career , but I always tried as hard as I could to get things done in a manner that no bridge was burnt ...
There are ZERO ethics involved . First , you suspect , but do not know , who the original reviewers were . You may be right , you may be wrong . Next , suggestions for potential reviewers are just that -- suggestions . It is the responsibility of the editor to pick appropriate reviewers , and your suggestions are just one potential source of information in the process of doing so . I 'd say even if you recommend people who you respect to referee your papers , they 'll surprise you regularly with critical reviews ( if they 're doing their job ) . The biggest ethical quandry you can get into in the process of recommending referees is probably some sort of pre-arrangement with those you suggest . This is to be avoided as less than stellar behavior .
end question
start question
Should a CV for a fellowship application ever include test scores even if these scores are not requested ?
If you are going to cite your scores , then you should check to see if there is a reporting mechanism from ETS that will allow you to send official copies of the scores to the recipients . For instance , NSF had a " college code " so that you could send a report directly to them . Other fellowships may be similar . One caveat that should be mentioned : if a university or fellowship specifically instructs you not to send something , do n't send it . I know that some schools do not want and will not accept additional letters of reference , award citations , publications , and so on . If this is the case for the specific application you 're completing , then you 'll want to find some other way to provide the information . This might be in the form of a mention in one of your essays ( if appropriate ! ) , or in a " supporting information " box in the application .
The context for what the CV is going to be used for is key . I have a single CV that includes " everything " since I started grad school and selected things from before then including seemingly unimportant part time jobs . Having a long CV makes it easier for me to create short CVs because it means I need to delete things instead of remember things . For your intended context , I would not include the work experience , but might include the degree in politics . Including that degree will likely lead people looking at your CV to think you are older ( which might be a pro or a con ) . If you are worried about age discrimination , I would drop it completely .
Since we 're talking about the humanities , let me answer with a Simpsons quote : Ned Flanders : I do n't understand . Is God punishing me ? Reverend Lovejoy : Short answer , " yes " with an " if " ; long answer , " no , " with a " but " I believe that academic CVs should be tailored to the requirements of the situation . If you 're applying for a faculty position in the Department of Film and Media Studies , a Kickstarter campaign in which you raised money for an independent movie is appropriate . Otherwise , adding this information is about as useful as saying that you like pina coladas and getting caught in the rain . PS . If you were <URL> , I 'd hire you right away if I was head of Social Psychology or Cultural Studies . PPS . Thank god , I 'm not head of an academic department .
Simply list in the section about employment who you worked for . The places you apply for may ignore this if they so choose , but at least you can document that you were working during this time and were not , as one could be tempted to speculate , in jail , unemployed , or homeless . But then , it may also be that the people who look at your application think that it is quite beneficial to the program to hire someone who has seen other parts of the world , whether or not you learned specific tasks and skills there that are useful for your postdoc work .
What you will soon realise is that there is no one CV to rule them all . More precisely , you will find that you need to tailor your CV for each job application etc , by ( de ) emphasising various parts of it . Getting a summer internship at McDonalds ? Emphasise the hamburger flipping . Applying for a grant , emphasise the research . Thus how much research experience you include in your CV depends what you are planning to use your CV for . If it were to get a PhD position , I would say " Yes " . Publications stay . They always count . Gradually , the research projects you did as an undergraduate will become uninteresting for your CV , for example , as you start filling your CV with new and exciting activities . This always happens . When you are starting your research career , you will be asked to review papers . You can list what journal/conference you reviewed for on your CV . Later you will be on conference PCs or journal editorial boards . Then all of the reviewing experience will become irrelevant for your CV .
The big underlying question here is what it means for a paper to be " related to a grant " . Different funding agencies have different rules on this , either a more " staff-oriented view " or a more " topic-oriented view " . Many pure science funds , for instance the <URL> , take a liberal stance on what kind of science can be enabled through each individual project . Essentially , while a project is given to support a specific idea , they are fully aware and quite happy that in addition to , and sometimes instead of , this project , other more or less related studies will also happen by the staff paid partly or in full through the project . At the end of the day , the SNF and other similar agencies care not so much about the specific piece of science that is described in the project , but that some valuable science is happening and that PhD students are graduating . Based on this view , researchers funded through SNF are expected to acknowledge them on every paper they do , no matter if it has to do with any of the science described in the project description . The collection of all papers acknowledging this project is then not understood as " all papers on topic X " , but rather " all topics enabled by funding project Y , on topic X and any side projects that the funded students did in addition or instead " . Other , especially more applied funds such as most of the European Commission 's <URL> programme , are much more interested in specific topics than in funding just about any research . For them , acknowledgements have much more the meaning that you seem to imply , that is , that citing this project in the acknowledgements of the paper implies that this contributes to the mission of the project . How strongly this is enforced or checked depends on the project officer . Most people also seem to take a rather liberal approach in practice , but there are certainly project officers that have formally complained about projects using the allocated funds to sponsor other research . Might he go into troubles if it is discovered by the funding agency that the papers are actually not related to the grant proposal ? So at the end of the day , it really depends on whether the agency actually considers this " topically unrelated but financially enabled by the grant " paper as " unrelated " . I would say , in absence of any other information , you can safely assume that your co-author did nothing wrong , and that the agency may be fine with this acknowledgement .
Unlike a resume , the contents of your CV should typically be comprehensive and complete , including both research experience and service . You might want to reshuffle the positions of sections within the CV for a target where you want to emphasize one aspect vs. another , but the content should be no different .
In general , I would leave out the financial amounts of scholarships and fellowships from CV 's . If it 's a small dollar amount , putting it on diminishes the amount of the award . If it 's a well-known award ( such as an NSF fellowship ) , or at least well-known in your field ( for example , a fellowship or scholarship by your field 's professional society ) , the details are already sufficiently well-known that they do n't need to be mentioned . I might only list them if they were ( a ) rather substantial in value and ( b ) not well-known enough to be on most people 's radar screens ( at least in your field ) . At the same time , listing just a few sort of calls attention to the fact that the other awards might not be so large . So again , I 'd lean towards not including them at all .
PhD admission committees look for evidence of your ability to successfully complete the PhD program . Published papers can be a big hint that the answer is " yes " . Unless it can be argued that the journal is a predatory one , I would suggest mentioning the published paper in your application if you think that the paper is of good quality . Even when the journal is not so well known ( but has good standards ) , it shows that you can perform the type of work expected from you if they choose to accept you .
What are the red flags that he mentions ? In general , a red flag is anything that makes the application look inappropriate or weak in comparison with other applications . This is a vague term , as you 've recognized . It can mean something a little different to each committee member . ( I 've been in discussions in which one committee member thought something was clearly a worrisome sign while another was completely unbothered by it . ) In practice , when you first look at a group of applications they come across like this . There 's a small group that should obviously be admitted , and a large group that do n't look like good choices . The latter are the ones with red flags . Then there 's a group that look like they could plausibly be admitted , but there are too many of them so further distinctions have to be made . That 's the group where support from a potential advisor would be most helpful . I have applied to a top school , to a leading professor , and they says that I " would be a terrific addition " to the group . Would this mean that if I 'm trying to avoid the red flags , 100 % that I will get an admission ? It 's completely unclear . First of all , it depends on how the admissions committee works . For example , it sounds like support from an advisor helps much more in Wolfgang Bangerth 's department than in mine . Without knowing where you are applying , it 's impossible to say what will happen in your case . Furthermore , who knows what this professor 's statement means ? Maybe they tell lots of people that they would be terrific additions . Maybe you 're special but someone even more impressive has also applied . It 's not worth spending a lot of time trying to interpret statements like this , since you just do n't have enough information to say with any confidence what they mean .
I have heard stories about some ( mostly weak ) young mathematicians include the names of some people ( influential enough ) to facilitate the acceptance of their papers or to help them for employment , grants , etc. . In fact , two years ago , an almost innocent case of this was going to happen to me . In Iran , most departments of mathematics have this ( written or non-written ) rule that a master or a PhD student should have at least one paper with his/her supervisor , otherwise she can not graduate or she misses some points from her thesis grade . I had a master student and she wanted to get the highest grade and therefore she asked me if I allow her to write a weak paper and include my name as a co-author of the paper . I deny it and she missed 1 ( out of 20 ) from her thesis grade . Of course , to compensate the 1 point unfair reduction , I defended her and asked the jury to not reduce any more points from her grade .
By " I see things like , " I assume you mean " the options are , " i.e. , the list of options you have given is exhaustive . I shall also assume that you are an engineering student , with a degree at " Bachelor of science " level and you are currently studying at " Master 's of science " level . The question about academic background is looking for your highest qualification , so I would list " master 's of science . " You could call the university to confirm ! EDIT . I do not agree with <URL> remark that a UK MEng degree is provided in lieu of a Bachelor 's and has the same study length : UK BEng degrees are typically three years , whereas UK MEng degrees are typically four years . It is possible that <URL> is attempting to compare Bachelor 's degrees between different countries .
You joined a PhD program without a master 's degree ? Well ... a master of science is about doing an small version of a PhD . In that sense , it could be beneficial to show that you do have some experience in research . On the other hand , the fact that you left , probably without results or something to prove how well did you do it so far , might not be so positive . But anyway , honesty should be the most important thing , and you should n't hide what you have done before . Also , it is definitely more beneficial to fill those gaps on your CV with the PhD time , instead of letting them think that you were just lounging around ...
A small sidenote to start things off : If I tell them " I read from Wikipedia that ... " I get dismissed immediately , yet in online forums we use it like a Bible . Well , one of the reasons for that is that " I read in Wikipedia " is almost synonymous with " I have exactly 5 minutes worth of knowledge on the topic " . The problem here really is n't the fact that you read Wikipedia , but that citing from it implies that you have read nothing else on the topic . If I am an expert in whatever field , I would probably not take a concern from somebody who implies that all his knowledge comes from a few-minute Internet recherch very seriously , either ( no matter what source ( s ) he actually found ) . Also , which online forums " use it like a Bible " ? Most that I hang around at are very critical of Wikipedia quotes , mostly for the reason I stated above - arguing based on a Wikipedia entry does not exactly establish creds as a person knowledgeable about the subject . Now , let 's discuss the real question here : What is the real reason Wikipedia is perceived negatively among many professors , even for informal use ( e.g. as an introduction to a subject ) ? ( note that the question is specifically about using Wikipedia as an introduction to a subject , not as a primary , citable source ) Honestly ? It is probably a combination of feeling threatened , reluctance to embrace change , and lack of knowledge how Wikipedia articles actually evolve over time . " Feeling threatened " in the sense that Wikipedia is kind of decentralising knowledge compilation , which is of course not necessarily something that makes academics ( the people that used to be more or less the definition of " compiled knowledge " in pre-internet times ) very comfortable . " Reluctance to embrace change " in the sense that Wikipedia is ( in comparison to text books or lectures ) a very new ( and radically different ) way to get an introduction to a topic , and most humans tend to be sceptical of this kind of disruptive technology . " Lack of knowledge " in the sense that many critical academics simply have not taken the time to study how ( especially popular ) Wikipedia articles actually evolve over time . I am convinced many would be positively surprised if they knew how well quality control in Wikipedia actually works in practice . I remember that in 2004 , c ' t ( a well-known German magazine widely read by IT professionals ) ran <URL> where they took random articles out of various encyclopaedias , anonymised them so that one could not tell the source anymore , and had domain experts compare them to anonymised Wikipedia articles for quality and technical errors . Wikipedia was consistently rated higher-quality than even well-respected standard encyclopaedias . That being said , I assume that the average quality of Wikipedia articles degrades a lot for entries on more esoteric topics , so I actually agree that for deeply scientific topics , one should be somewhat skeptical of Wikipedia , just as one would be about any other single source . Finally , I have to say that I know many professors that do n't have a problem with using Wikipedia as a starting point for your review of a subject . However , if you write , for instance , an seminar paper , you are expected to read the primary sources ( and I fully agree with this ) .
A cover article is noteworthy , but not all noteworthy material goes on all CVs . I include a note about cover articles on my CV iff I am also including citation counts . I only include this extra information if the CV is for something that is trying to evaluate the " impact " of my research .
Yes . The affiliation serves two purposes : acknowledgement and identification . Even if it is not part of your thesis research , if you are receiving resources of any kind from your institution , you should list them as your affiliation . These resources include money ( whether directly related to your research or not ) , computing equipment , internet access , printer access , electricity , phones , faculty and student colleagues ( whether coauthors or not ) , library access ( either physical or electronic ) , whiteboards , local coffee shops/bars , and the general intellectual atmosphere that encourages you to do research in the first place . You can afford to be generous . Also , the affiliation helps identify you as an author , especially if you have a common name , or you publish other papers with the same affiliation .
From my experience , reviewers get the whole proposal and also read the whole proposal . Reviewers try to get a complete picture of the applicant and skim the proposal for all relevant information in this regard . This means , that probably no reviewer will read every word of the proposal , but potentially , every word will be read by some reviewer . The reviewers base their review on the whole picture they get , but usually their feedback is only for the part for which they are specialists ( e.g. the scientific strength of the applicant and so on ... ) .
I 've never seen anything like this on a CV . If you have other publications , I certainly would n't include this . It would look like you are trying too hard to find something to put on your CV , which could do more harm than good . Let your publications stand for themselves . One thing you could do when describing the various jobs you 've had , is to include the statistical analysis work in the description of the activities you performed in that job . You could also mention it in the cover letter , if it is relevant for the job . Finally , do bring it up in the interview as an example of how you work in a collaboration .
Should I include my PhD as " ongoing " in a separate section to the rest of my education ? Or can I just indicate it as part of my education , but with a note like " 2011-present " or something ? The second option . I.e. , just indicate it as part of the education while noting explicitly something like " 2011 - 2016 ( expected ) "
I have written a couple of articles for 2 different daily newspapers . In them , I have discussed the issues of my academic field . Should I include them in my CV ? Yes , certainly , as long as you clearly separate them from your academic publications . Strictly speaking , they are form of publication , so it would n't be lying to list them together with your research papers under a vague enough title , but this would be a very bad idea . It would come across like you are trying to make your publication list look longer by inflating it with non-academic publications . [ If the newspaper articles had nothing at all to do with your academic work , then mentioning them probably would n't make sense . However , it sounds like they do . ] If so , under what title ? Is press release appropriate ? What is the most common and accepted term ? Definitely not press release , since a press release is something else : it 's a document given to journalists to inform them about a possible story they could write about . Occasionally newspapers publish lightly edited versions of press releases , without gathering much more information , but this is considered bad reporting . I do n't think there 's a clear standard for how to list this information . You could list it in several ways : outreach , other publications ( if you have a " scholarly publications " section , say ) , writing for the general public , etc. .
end question
start question
Is it advisable to mention the dollar amount for grants on a CV ?
If you 're applying for academic jobs in the US , your ability to acquire funding is one component of your viability as an academic . So definitely add in the information about the amount of money . It will stand out ( in a good way )
As a general rule : anything which is clearly academically related can go on your CV . As you say , there are certain things that are required or nearly required on your CV , but even these vary by discipline and sometimes people in the same discipline have divergent ideas . ( For instance , every once in a while I find a CV which does n't list the candidate 's undergraduate institution , or lists it without indicating the years that they spent there . I would have thought that was strictly required . I guess I was wrong . ) What to fight in adding " academically related " information to your CV is clear : if you put in too much routine stuff , you 'll get a bloated mess of a CV that few people will actually read . Drawbacks of a lengthy CV can be mitigated by very careful and clear organization . Nevertheless , you can compare CVs of two absolutely cognate people -- e.g. who attended undergrad and grad at exactly the same time and arrived at their current institution at the same time and with the same seniority -- and you 'll find significant variations , including up to at least 1/3 in the total length . It 's really your choice how much detail to put on your CV , and I would be skeptical of anyone who tells you too stridently what you must and must not do . Having said that : yes , very early career academics ( especially students ) really struggle to have a CV that does n't look unhelpfully skimpy . Conference work sounds like a great thing to put on a junior person 's CV -- and in fact , even on a senior person 's , although a more senior person might be more selective about the kind of conference work that goes on your CV . One tip : " conference volunteering " might be an undersell . Most conference organizing is unpaid , hence is volunteer work . " Conference assistant " sounds like your work was really on the level of secretarial work / technical support . If that is an accurate description of what you did , great . If you do such things more than once or twice , you should think about asking to be let in on some of the more content-related aspects of the work . For instance , if you had a say -- however small -- in choosing or recruiting the speakers or attendees , then I would go for something like " co-organizer " rather than " assistant " .
I would say yes . I have done so from when I received my first grant/stipend . I ceased listing once I received a permanent position ( or thereabouts ) and started getting multiyer grants from national sources . As long as you think adding it shows that you are active and competitive ( well merited ) in terms of receiving the trust to receive money it will be a good thing . You need to constantly evaluate the possible pros and cons of adding informaton to your cv , including funding . I would imagine that being in a soft money situation , listing funding will only be a positive . But , be aware that gaps in your funding stream may become question marks unless they are explicitly explained .
I believe you may get some tips from the answers to a question of mine on this very site : <URL> As for myself , I list the peer-reviews I have done in a " Administrative and collective duties " or " Community involvement " . Or , in a short CV which does n't have such divisions , I put it with the broader " Other skills and activities " section ( i.e. not teaching , not research projects ) . What I include is : list of journals for which I act as reviewer ( " Regular reviewer for many chemistry journals , including ... " ) funding bodies ( NSF , private trusts , etc. ) for which I act as expert ( including , e.g. , NSF division , but not the exact programs ) evaluation committees on which I sit It feels obvious , but it 's always worth repeating : do not include any confidential information , such as titles or author lists for reviewer papers or projects . I think it 's safe to list the number of reviews performed for each outlet if you want ( but I do n't do it ) .
Yes it is common to send multiple PhD applications to multiple schools . I am doing this now , I would RECOMMEND it actually because getting into PhD programs is difficult .
I would imagine this may vary from field to field , but in the biological sciences the caption text in journal publications is often verbose to the point of absurdity . That being said , I would simply use common sense ; If the description takes more than a paragraph , you should definitely " refer to text " . Generally speaking , the caption is simply a textual guide as to how to read the plot , with ( maybe ) a sentence drawing the reader 's attention to a particular feature of the plot . It should mostly describe the plot , and only sparingly discuss it .
I see no reason at all to leave any reasonable skill or ability off of your CV . Play a musical instrument ? Won some medals in a sporting event ? Program an android app ? Have a black belt in a martial art ? Add a section called " Other skills " or " Personal Information " and briefly list these skills . There are two reasons for this . First , it can help a potential employer think of you as a real person , perhaps someone they would like to know . Second , many skills can take years of dedicated practice to master ; if you can master one such skill , then there is a good chance you can master whatever new skills may be required in the new job . Here is an example from my life . Many years ago I programmed a video game ( one of the old " text adventure " style games . I placed this on my CV , not thinking much about it . It turned out that one of the elder faculty conducting the interview had played that game and remembered it fondly . This alone certainly did not " get me the job , " but anything that can smooth the way can be helpful .
Acceptable ? Sure . Useful ? Probably not . If you 're applying to graduate programs , then listing these courses would be appropriate . On the other hand ( at least for US schools ) , you need to submit official transcripts for those courses anyway . Also , if you expect those courses to play a significant role in your admission , you need to make that case in your application statement . If you 're applying to an academic position that is primarily teaching , then listing the courses might be appropriate to show that you have at least taken courses on the topics you intend to teach . But if you expect those courses to play a significant role in your hiring , you need to make that case in your application statements . If you 're applying to an academic position that is primarily research ( including most postdocs and tenure-track faculty positions ) , there 's no point in listing what courses you 've taken . With rare exceptions , your research record ( as listed in your CV , described in your research statement , and judged in your letters ) is essentially the only thing that matters for such positions . Teaching experience might play a role , but classes that you 've merely taken wo n't . If you think specific courses significantly strengthen your case -- making you one of those rare exceptions -- you need to to make that case in your application statements .
I do n't find such citations to citation counts very helpful in reading an article . Assuming such numbers are reasonably accurate , they only represent a snapshot of the popularity of a technique at the time you wrote your article . I would recommend simply saying that it is a popular technique and leaving it at that .
The preferred details for typesetting your research statement are likely to be highly subjective . Different things are likely to be pleasing , striking , or off-putting , depending on the individual preferences of whoever is reading your application . I would agree that italics are one of the preferred methods to provide <URL> without being too flashy or distracting . Whether or not that is the appropriate choice for your research statement should probably depend to some extent on the style and content of the rest of your application as well . If you have access to a university writing center , you should try to speak with someone there to decide on the style and arrangement of your application . To speak to my own experience , I generally will not consider a candidate more capable or skilled in independent thought , rigorous work , or attention to detail , because it is typographically emphasized on their application .
The status of subreviewers , and even the designation as reviewer or subreviewer , varies a lot from venue to venue . In some places , reviewers are official and are listed in the proceedings . In others , it 's as you say : informal assistance provided to the actual reviewer . A student should definitely list instances of official reviews ( i.e where there 's documentation of their effort ) in their CV . But if the subreview is less formal ( or there 's no record of it maintained by the conference ) , then I 'd be inclined to leave it off the CV , mainly because it 's difficult to verify . I understand the desire to indicate some degree of competence with research critiques , but the danger is that without documentation the process is ripe for abuse or at least inflated claims .
they do n't seem to understand the subject very well . You sound like you are in a level of expertise that you could judge the quality of the lectures . You may then ideally speak to the professor about your allegation they still do this . I am ignoring the regional limitations and considering the question in a general context . Is it even considered an accepted practice ? Assuming that there are no institutional guidelines that goes against assembling questions from the internet ( which you must check if you have n't done already ! ) , from a logical perspective viewing this as a student , the practice is similar to posting questions from the text book or peer reviewed journals . The professor in any case is responsible for the question and its relevance can be questioned with supporting evidence . From the point of view of a student , you could also do a student peer review about the quality and relevance of the question supported by discussions and critical reasoning . If the result of such an assessment goes against the question , you could then report him/her with proof your views about the practice . NOTE - This is not limited to internet based questions but also any questions even from the sources you think are authentic .
We encourage our graduate students to take internships for 3 months during summer ( at Microsoft Redmond and MSR Cambridge ) . This is a bit like a sabbatical . In our experience , these are extremely valuable for the students and for fostering research collaborations . Usually one publication results for the student , but the experience and the contacts they gain can not be measure in the regular units . We do not allow our students to go on such ' sabbaticals ' if they are not already performing well . The lucky students who do get to go need to act as ambassadors for our university . We do not use internships as a way of kick-stacking the research of a student-gone-astray . Unless by sabbatical , you mean vacation , in which case , I 've answered the wrong question . Students are entitled to 6 weeks vacation per year ( not including Christmas ) . They may take it in one chunk if they wish . Whether we allow it depends on what project deadlines need to be met and so forth . Generally , we encourage them to split up their vacation into smaller chunks ( 1 week here , 2 weeks there ) .
Students have lots of reasons for taking courses and I do n't think I want to be in the business of telling students that there are right and wrong reasons to take a class . I certainly think it 's a good idea for prospective PhD students to think about who might be good letter writers early on in their program and to make sure they work with some of them -- not doing so can make the academic job market very difficult . I do n't see this as being substantively different . If you take the class , do well , and then ask for a letter , you might get a good one . Or you might not . So I 'd say go ahead . That said , there is something very mercenary about the way you have phrased your question that makes me skeptical . Do you really think that working with faculty would n't teach you anything ? If it 's true that the only reason you want to take a class is because of the letter you might get , something seems off . Maybe your interests are different enough from the professor 's that I 'm skeptical that this person would be such a great letter writer for what you want to do . Being able to excel in a Masters program means not resenting the idea that you may have to learn from professors when you could " just read the book . " I think it 's OK to take a class for a recommendation but you should use this as opportunity to learn something you are passionate about in ways you could not with just the textbook . Talk to the professor . Let them know you are an advanced and passionate student . Get feedback on your work . Go beyond what is just in the book . If you do that , you will get more than you would otherwise . In the process , you will also earn a much stronger letter . If you ca n't get over that hump , I suspect that your recommendations -- and your experience in grad school -- will underwhelm .
What you will soon realise is that there is no one CV to rule them all . More precisely , you will find that you need to tailor your CV for each job application etc , by ( de ) emphasising various parts of it . Getting a summer internship at McDonalds ? Emphasise the hamburger flipping . Applying for a grant , emphasise the research . Thus how much research experience you include in your CV depends what you are planning to use your CV for . If it were to get a PhD position , I would say " Yes " . Publications stay . They always count . Gradually , the research projects you did as an undergraduate will become uninteresting for your CV , for example , as you start filling your CV with new and exciting activities . This always happens . When you are starting your research career , you will be asked to review papers . You can list what journal/conference you reviewed for on your CV . Later you will be on conference PCs or journal editorial boards . Then all of the reviewing experience will become irrelevant for your CV .
Short answer : No . Long answer : Determining the minimum bar for which a PhD can be awarded is a bad exercise . If you are merely working towards the minimum you will not successfully complete a PhD . One thing to note is that PhDs in the US tend to be open ended ( to the extent you can continue to get funding ) while in Europe they tend to have fixed durations . This means in Europe the bar comes whether you are ready or not while in the US you get to chose when you defend . Neither is easier , just different .
If it 's your opinion that your readers wo n't have time to read your whole document , you might want to consider adding an executive summary at the top of your document . This would take the form of a short paragraph which essentially includes all the key phrases or sentences that you would otherwise have highlighted in bold font throughout your document . If you make your summary pithy , punchy and exciting , you are more likely to entice your reader to read through the remainder of the document . One might indeed say that highlighting key phrases throughout your summary is a touch lazy . I wrote a similar document and went through and highlighted key phrases , just as you are considering . Then I wrote an executive summary section as the first paragraph , reusing or paraphrasing the key points . I removed the text formatting in the main text body , rewriting the phrases relating to the key points given in the summary to avoid repeating them word for word . To my mind , the result looked more professional and read much better .
I assume you are creating your for some ( job or graduate studies ) . I understand that having three to four good referees is good enough . You need not provide more than that . I am particularly speaking about the academia in US and I believe it would be different elsewhere ( e.g. UK ) . Of course you may put different referees according to the requirement . I mean you may need to create different for different occasions . Some referees would be better able to acknowledge your work for a given situation . For example you may need to take a from a ( for example ) Mathematics teacher when applying for in Math . In fact I have also seen that many people do not put the references . In an application process , they are required to separately provide the names and contacts of the referees .
There are , of course , a number of ways to do this , as there is no fixed " CV " format even within a field , let alone across them . I will tell you my own methods for doing this : Long sessions , such as full or half-day workshops , breakout tracks , etc. go under Teaching Experience , with the conference information placed in lieu of normal course information . For example : Session Organizer , " An Introduction to Doing Good Research " , Learning Institute , Association for Right Thinking People Annual Conference . October 2011 , 2012 and 2014 Smaller sessions get pulled into Invited Talks , which in my CV is actually Invited Talks and Organized Workshops , which then have ' Panel Moderator ' or ' Symposium Organizer ' instead of an author . For example : Symposium Organizer , " Novel Methods in Being Unimpeachably Correct " . 2016 . Society for Doing Science Annual Meeting , Chicago , IL .
Have a look at the copyright transfer document that you have signed . Typically , it will only transfer the copyright of the conference paper that has been included in the proceedings . That means that you or your university / institution remain the copyright owner of the slides . Be careful , though . Often the slides contain figures that are also included in he article , and the copyright of those may have been transferred . Many copyright statements allow you to use figures and such on you own or your institution 's website , but not all . If you do have figures or other material in your slides that you do not own the copyright of ( anymore ) , then it is wise to either : ask the copyright holder for permission for them to be used on your own website , or leave that material out , or create a new version of the respective material ( which often can be done if you have the underlying raw data )
end question
start question
Can a master 's thesis still be good if it lacks demonstrable results ?
My Masters project ( synthetic chemistry ) did n't actually generate results other than failure and black goop ( so nothing novel ! ) until the last two weeks of time I had in the lab , and even then , there was insufficient purity and quantity of my compound to do a complete ' standard ' panel of analysis . It was the 4th year of an integrated BSc/Msci course , was graded including a viva and I achieved a mid 2.1 . The main purpose of a research Masters , at least in chemistry , is to accustom you to ' proper ' research methods , while allowing you to pursue something novel and to demonstrate your ability to conduct research to a sufficient standard . In my cohort there was typically a tradeoff between novelty of project and quality of results , where one forgave the lack of the other . As long as your thesis is written with an awareness of its deficits ( aims far loftier/broader than the time/resources available sounds like a good start ! ) and you write good further work and conclusion sections where you tie this awareness in , making sensible conclusions and observations on the few cases you have achieved , I think it is definitely possible to write a good one ! As Paul indicated above , you should discuss these concerns with your supervisor and possibly head of class ( or equivalent ) . I am sure they will have dealt with someone with your concerns and circumstances before .
Literature reviews , often referred to by journals as just " Reviews " can and are their own form of research paper . My very first publication was a review like this , so it 's clearly possible . How viable a paper like that is will probably depend on the conventions of your field . For example , mine generally requires that these " expert reviews " ( in contrast to a meta-analysis or systematic review ) be solicited by the editor , not cold submitted . That involves shopping your manuscript around a little to see if anyone is willing to " invite " it , having a senior person backing you who can prompt a colleague to invite it , or finding a journal who accepts cold submitted reviews .
As Peter Shor indicates , one can not uniquely decode the professor 's intent from this response . You 'll have to get more information from him to be confident of his motivations . Let me say that taking on a coadvisor could show a lack of confidence in the student , but more commonly it shows an advisor 's lack of confidence in her own experience or is done for a good , subject-oriented reason ( i.e. , to bring in specific expertise ) . My first PhD student -- taken on when I was not yet tenured -- was coadvised with a more senior faculty member . This was because I was nervous about myself , not about him ( he was really great ) , but independently of my own gingerness it turned out to be a very good idea because his second adviser imparted some key technical knowledge that got used in his thesis in a very nice way . Now ( I am tenured and ) I have four students who are solely advised by me : I got a little older is the main difference . So I can understand this faculty member 's perspective . On the other hand , at least in my field ( mathematics ) advising a master 's student is much easier than advising a PhD student : they stay for 1/3 to 1/2 of the time and the whole experience is not as intense . Because of this , " splitting " a master 's student is less common ( and no examples spring to mind , but then again in mathematics , a master 's degree is more likely to be done rather casually en route to greater things or as a terminal degree ) . From a neutral ( read : uninformed ) outsider 's perspective , I would say that if you 're already sitting in this guy 's research group then that 's pretty close to taking you on as a master 's student . One thing you could try is just to organically increase your interactions without " putting a label on it " . In other words , instead of sitting in on the group , can you actually do some work for the group ? If so , you basically are this guy 's master 's student , and after a couple of months of work it will be much easier for all involved to call it that . If on the other hand you express an interest in doing work for his group and he tells you why you ca n't at the moment ... then there 's your answer . Another tack to take would be to ask the professor for a specific suggestion of who could co-advise you . Then you can take it up with that person ... who of course may suggest single-handedly advising you . I think the suggestion to co-advise without a specific person in mind to do the other half of the advising shows that he is not very enthusiastic about advising you . Good luck .
Just because it 's not published does n't preclude being able to cite it . You ca n't not cite the thesis if you 're taking information from it ! The degree-granting institution should perpetually retain copies in its library , and most universities these days store PDF copies as well . A copy may be harder to track down , but a determined reader should have no enormous difficulty in getting a copy of the thesis . Example : Smith B. ( 2013 ) , General Relativity , MSc thesis , University of Cambridge , UK .
The purpose of disability accommodations are to put students on a fair playing field . If you have a condition and if your physicians , mental health providers , and university disability office feel that it puts you at a relative and unfair disadvantage by making you foggy and confused , requesting accommodations sounds both ethical and wise . The fact that you happen to be a relative high performer in spite of your disability does not mean you are not at a disadvantage relative to your peers in this concrete way that can be accommodated for with extra time ( for example ) . The reality , of course , is that accommodations are not evenly distributed . In general , socially and economically disadvantaged students will be less likely to be diagnosed and provided with accommodations for their legitimate disabilities . There is also a sense that some people have that students will fabricate or exaggerate disabilities to receive accommodations that would help any student but that do not actually compensate for a legitimate disability . In this final sense , people might think you are trying to game the situation . It would be wrong to game the situation but it does n't sound like you are suggesting that . Despite others perception , it is both ethical and in your interests to be accommodated for your legitimate medical disabilities and I would definitely do it .
The <URL> Of , relating to , or characteristic of an educational institution or environment ; concerned with the pursuit of research , education , and scholarship ; scholarly , educational , intellectual . has a focus on education . The <URL> Academic institution is an educational institution dedicated to education and research , which grants academic degrees . also has a focus on education and a requirement to grant academic degrees . To me degree granting is critical to being an academic institution . I do not think of any non-degree granting institute as being academic . Places like the German MPIs and US National Laboratories are cutting edge research institutes , but not academic-institutes . Non-academic research institutions often have a grants office , just like their academic counterparts . Further employees at non-academic institutions that wish to conduct research can often get a research appointment at a local university .
You could aim at technical universities ( in Germany and Switzerland , they are called " Fachhochschulen " , Universities of Applied Sciences ) . Their focus is more on applied research and teaching . I worked 2 years there as a researcher without a MS in CS .
Yes , this is a fairly standard description of a supervisors role in undergraduate research projects . Typically supervisor , despite potentially limited input , are responsible for the research conduct of their students . This might include booking of resources ( e.g. , labs or super computer time ) and ethical approval for research that involves human and animal testing .
I do n't think you need to be too formal here . Just include whatever information you believe is relevant , for example : Master 's Thesis : " Topic " , at University X , supervised by Prof. Y. Theses are different from regular publications anyway .
It can not be a research paper without a project . Research papers are for describing the results of the projects . Even review articles represent projects to collect the information about the current status in the particular branch of the science . Once you are a co-author , you have been involved into that project . Co-authorship always assumes significant enough involvement . Hope this answers your question .
This depends a great deal on the professor and course in question . Better to ask first if you plan to do this . Also , check the syllabus if there is a stated policy regarding help on homework .
Depending on the extent of your work , you may be able to get a paper describing your package and methods in PLoS One or a similar journal , or the Journal of Statistical Software . Alternately , The R Journal is a peer-reviewed journal covering R software , which may be an appropriate venue if you do n't have enough methodological material to build out a full paper for another journal Finally , many journals accept code supplements for papers describing the use of your method , so you may be able to publish your routine 's in a paper about the actual work you are doing .
I would say this is your opportunity to explore and find a ( hopefully small ) gap in the literature that you can fill . Reading literature reviews is the best way to start . I had a similar experience a little earlier in my degree ( masters ) , and I was able to pick a topic that I loved , and it kept me going ; I am almost finished , and it has been , IMO , a successful endeavor . If you are applying to a PhD program after , you will have experience exploring a little on your own . Your advisor will be able to say in their recommendation letter that you took initiative in your research . The difficult part will be carving out something meaningful that you can do in 7-9 months ( 1 month to research and decide &amp; 2-4 months for thesis writing and defense at the end ) . Your advisor should be able to help you to narrow the scope to something manageable .
You should try to publish before you finish your thesis . An idea in a published paper will be recognized as yours , there are more chances of an idea getting stolen from a thesis .
The PhD thesis should be on a much higher level than the Honours/Masters thesis , offering a contribution to human knowledge that is of a sufficient level of " significance " to warrant publication in a respected journal . Significance is highly subjective , and you also do not necessarily have to publish to be awarded the PhD ( sometimes the peer-review delay means that they come out afterwards , or there may be some intellectual property issues that make it beneficial to refrain from publication ) . It is awarded based on your supervisors consent and a review of academics in your field . So the " significance " would probably be judged by them in terms of how much original work they see as a reasonable expectation at that stage of your development ( first 3 years of serious/committed research ) . Unfortunately it also means that some people who probably do not deserve PhD 's are awarded them anyway for fulfilling grunt work for their easy-going supervisors . It is possible that some Honours/Masters thesis might even be more significant/higher quality than a PhD thesis . Unfortunately , this does not mean that the submission of the thesis will award the degree that they deserve . The university may have a policy to upgrade the student 's enrolment if the supervisor senses that such progress is being made . However , it is impossible to upgrade to a PhD without completing Honours and I believe nearly every single university has a policy of a minimum period of enrolment before submission is allowed . A subsequent question that you may have is how to gain a PhD without enrolling in one , which is another level of achievement completely . As for the difference between Honours/Bachelor and Masters it would depend on your university , but both have no requirement for publication quality research and are usually small tasks/ideas that are not worth the supervisors time to think about alone , or involve a lot of labor . In fact , in my school , many Honours thesis are of a higher level than the Masters , because the smart Honours students will either graduate into the work force or go straight into a PhD . The Masters students are usually those who can not find a job and are not suited to research . However , I believe some other universities may require a mandatory Masters degree to start the PhD . You may get a better idea by looking at some titles/abstracts of completed theses . The PhD level will be something like a new method/observation/application whereas the Masters/Honours will be an application specific set of measurements/simulations or even simply a literature review to gauge the needs of future work . The word limits are also typically different ( although note that quality is NOT proportional to the number of words ) , with PhD at 100K , Masters at 50K and Honours at 30K at my university .
In my case at least , the following helped me deal with busy academics who do n't respond to my emails ( both as a student or academic ) : Face To Face Meeting : If an academic does not reply to your email , trying to talking to him/her face to face through an online chat ( e.g. , Skype ) or in person , is much better for you , than a phone call from you . This is because , he/she will get a better understanding on what you are , and he/she needs to make a commitment to listen to you ; because he/she knows you are looking at him/her . Arranging The Meeting : Because he/she seems very busy , find his/her department , and try to find the secretary for his/her research group . And kindly ask the secretary to ask the academic for a meeting . Worst Case Scenario : The secretary ask the academic that Mr.x wants to have a meeting you . The academic for some reason does not want to do that , so then he/she will search at his/her mailbox and then will answer your emails . At least you get an answer to your sent emails .
Here is one rule of thumb : You should be sufficiently confident with the topic to be able to guide your student to success . This means in particular that you should know the topic in which the student is supposed to work in well enough such that : You are certain that the workload is manageable in the time outlined by the examination regulations . You know that there is enough low hanging fruit in the topic such that it is clear that even a mediocre student should be able to write a thesis that is good enough for the standards of your field and school . There are some types of results that a student may obtain during the thesis work that would suffice for the student to write a great thesis , possibly leading to a subsequent publication ( given interest by the student ) . You think that you can advise the student with the problems that you expect to occur in the scope of the project . You have sufficient time to actually advise the student and in particular have the time to read into the details of the subject in case the student needs some guidance on them . Depending on the field , it is debatable whether it is OK to hand out topics of which the advisor has comparably little knowledge , given that all requirements from the list above are fulfilled . Also , the list above focuses on the minimum requirements . Again , it is debatable whether satisfying all points on the list is enough already ( unless I forgot something important ) . As far as coming up with new thesis topics is concerned : probably everyone has their own approach for this . One way is to collect the ideas that you have in your own research into idea lists , and after some time filtering them by the criteria above .
I 've sat on an IRB panel and we 've never been concerned about the source of funds for participant gift-cards . p.s. Note I 'm an ethnographic fieldworker and I often buy small gifts for the families and individuals who participate in my projects . It 's too much of a pain to pay for these out of my research account ( why do you want 15 stuffed bears and keychains ? ) so I buy them out of pocket .
While I do n't really like adding answers to questions that have too many already , I also think it 's a little hard to cut through the arguing any other way . It 's not rude to ask for a letter of recommendation . Ever . ( I mean , if you do it rudely , then yes , but the bare fact of asking is n't ) . It might be unlikely to succeed , or unrealistic in some cases , but it 's not rude . You should try to ascertain whether this is a normal thing to do in your field . In my field ( mathematics ) , it borders on inconceivable that an undergrad would carry out and publish truly impressive work without an established researcher in the field supervising them and able to write a detailed letter about it . Maybe there are some other fields where that can be the case , though I ca n't say I know what they would be ( perhaps some of the other answerers are ) . Similarly , JeffE 's advice to try to create a dossier of the level that might be appropriate for a faculty position sounds completely preposterous to me , but I suppose it must not be in computer science . Whenever you ask someone for a letter of recommendation , think about what you are hoping the person will say , and whether they are placed well to say it . So , I would only consider asking for a person to write a letter based purely on having read my research if I knew they were familiar with it , and could place it in a context that is not obvious to the people reading the letter . It can be very valuable to have a letter saying essentially " this paper is actually really important . here is why . " I 've read such letters , I 've written such letters . But the paper has to be really important ( in the view of the author ) for such a letter to work . I suspect a lot of the argument here is based around whether the answerer really thinks this is an impressive publication or not ( which we are all guessing about ) . So , if I were you , I would ask some of your professors whether they really think this potential letter writer will be impressed by the publication . If they think maybe yes , then you can email her/him , and say : Dear Prof. X , I 'm a student at the University of Y and am applying to graduate schools in country Z ( or maybe be more specific ) in underwater basket weaving , with a focus on the use of hemp . Prof. W thought you might be interested in this publication of mine , since it relates to your work on macramae at the bottom of the Mariana Trench . I was wondering if you thought you could write a strong recommendation for me on the basis of this publication . Thank you very much for your time . Sincerely , Joe Schmoe Asking someone if they think they are able to write a strong letter for you is good way of leaving them an easy out , and not getting a terrible letter since someone finds it easier to write a terrible letter than to say no ( it happens ) . I would almost certainly reject such a request since I really would n't feel like I could write a strong letter . But if the publication really is that good , maybe someone will feel like they can .
Consulting the <URL> reveals that one of their conferences , CATA , is ranked C. I did not check any others . Indicators that the conferences are not good include : The conference is extremely broad . CATA covers topics including Algorithms , Programming Languages , and Multimedia . The conference is in an exotic location ( e.g. Hawaii ) . People involved in the conference are not the leaders in their field . Conference is not well established . Conference does not appear in the Conference Ranking list , even though it has been around for a long time . Note that conferences satisfying some or all of these criteria are not necessarily poorly ranked .
end question
start question
How do you deal with trolling students ?
a student asks you why our noses run and our feet smell . My answer would be Sorry , I do n't know the answer to your question . Please ask the experts . This is the professional answer I 'll provide . Professional in the sense that I only say what I know . Be careful if you try to use some sense of humor to answer those questions . You can easily step out of boundry . In particular , the two examples you have may have something to do with health/privacy issues . If the student keeps asking this kind of questions , you 'll know he has other reasons to do so ( such as another student has running nose or came to classroom with bare foot ) . Talk to the student privately or take it to your superiors . Edit I received comments about part of my answer " Please ask the experts " . I 'll explain . I am recommending to pretend the trolling question is a serious one . I can not guess what trolling questions the OP was asked . There are many possibilities . Many trolling questions are of personal type . I give an example here . A young male handsome prof. teaches in a college . He is asked all kinds of questions every new semester . The most frequent one is " Professor , when are you going to get married ? " The prof. always replied " Sorry , I do n't know the answer . You need to ask my fiancee . " In this case , the expert is his fiancee . You can use other serious ways to answer the trolling question . The point is to be serious ( or jokingly serious if you can ) about it so that the troller wo n't be able to continue the trolling . End of edit
Writing " good " papers is an integral part of being a good academic , and therefore it is , in my opinion , something that supervisors should teach their students . This means you should be active in teaching them how to write , and less active in the actual writing itself . Struggling is part of any learning process , provided they are struggling with writing , and not with your reviews . The best you can do is to provide the student with clear goals of how the paper should look , how it should be structured and what it should contain . Looking back at my own first papers , I usually started writing before knowing exactly what the bottom line , e.g. the take-home message , should be . Discussing a plan of the paper , both with regards to content and the writing process , with the student before letting him/her write it is probably a good idea . When reviewing the manuscript , I think it 's important to provide clear , consistent and constructive criticism . Specifically : Clear : If you do n't like a sentence , paragraph , figure or table ( do n't forget these latter two ! ) , make sure you tell the student exactly what you do n't like about it . This may require putting intuition aside and thinking through why you 're not happy with it . Consistent : Avoid editing ping-pong that lead to the same paragraph being re-written 20 times back and forth . It 's probably a good idea to keep copies of previous iterations with your own comments . This also helps the students if you can tell them they 've done a good job fixing things from the previous iteration . Constructive : This is kind of obvious , but I ca n't be reminded of it often enough . Deadlines are a bummer , but they 're as much part of the academic process as the writing itself , so the best you can do is to teach your students to prepare for them adequately , i.e. plan ahead . Addendum As for authorship , in my opinion , teaching a student to write a paper in no way qualifies as co-authorship . It 's part of your job as an academic . Co-authorship is something that arises out of having contributed significantly to the contents of the paper .
It 's an old adage that " You do n't truly understand something unless you can explain it completely to someone else " . Writing notes effectively forces you to explain the topic to yourself . Oftentimes , when writing over notes from a class or from what you 've read , the simple process of re-explaining it to yourself will clarify points that may have been confusing earlier . For this purpose , I try not to write notes as I 'm reading , but rather I 'll read a section and them summarize that in my notes . Having read the full picture , I can then ensure that my understanding of the topic is more complete , and my notes should reflect that . On a different note entirely , repetition enhances retention , and writing notes is at the very least doubles the number of times you 'll see it ( once in the book , and once as you write it ) , which should help your remember it that much better .
Committee must be convinced that the money will be well used . It would look best if you told you would invest the money to become better at the field of your studies ( buy literature , go to conferences , pay for some courses or certifications , publishing your articles in journals ) . However , trying to look perfect could backfire . In my country it would be reasonable if you wrote that part of the scholarship would be spent on something not related to education . But that depends on the country , culture , traditions , committee members etc. . You must also convince the committee that you will do good in studies . That is why you should mention your study results and achievements . You must convince the committee that you like the field of your studies , you are passionate and will keep working hard . If your studies have helped you at your work , mention that . Also mention your short and long term goals - educational and professional . You can also mention your strongest characteristics and give arguments . ( example : leadership abilities , you lead a student team in project x which was successful . ) The motivation letter as a whole is the answer to the question " Why do you deserve a scholarship ? " edit # 1 : I changed the part about spending scholarship money on something not education related , because of the comment by Trylks .
Learning is a life long activity . Graduating with a PhD is not a license to stop learning , it 's a license to ( eventually ) get paid to do research and learn more :)
If this is an informal request for internal review -- definitely go ahead . It is common practice to have close associates review work , and your thoughtful comments will gain you respect . If this is a formal invitation from a journal -- it is a clear conflict of interest . It probably should never have been sent to you , quite honestly . This is not to say you could n't provide an unbiased , thoughtful review , but to an outsider this would really be questionable . I suggest you take the high road , decline the invitation , and send a letter to the action editor reminding him of your close association .
I think there are two parts in your question : can someone with a Bachelor from the US get a job from a university or research lab , and what kind of visa such a person would need . For the first question , it 's really depending on the university . As for the visa , it depends if it would be for a PhD student , or for a " regular " researcher ( i.e. not a student ) . However , in both cases , the visa application depends on the country , as far as I know , there is no Schengen Research Visa . For instance , for France , there are two types of Visa the person could apply to ( <URL> ) <URL> . However , for this one , they say : University graduates should be PhD . Lower graduates will be required to add proof of profesionnal experience in the same field for a minimum of 1 to 3 years ( the lower the degree , the longer profesionnal experience expected ) <URL> . According to this <URL> ( in French , I could n't find an English version ) , a " convention d'accueil " would basically be the work contract with the university/lab , and the eligibility requirement seems to be a Master degree or equivalent ( but it could be the case that a 5-years US Bachelor degree counts as an equivalent to a 5-year French Master degree ) . As far as I understand , that would be the best option for someone who wants to do her PhD in France . It would also be possible to apply for a student visa , but I think it 's not possible to get a work contract with such a visa . Another solution could be to apply to a : <URL> . There does not seem to be anything specific to research in this case . So , to sum it up , I do n't think there is a unified process to apply for a visa in Europe as a researcher , and each country has its own rules . Note that these visas are not automatically Schengen visa , and I 've known the case of some extra-EU students , who obtained a visa in one Schengen country , and were not allowed to travel in other Schengen countries before becoming officially resident of the country .
I am not sure you can call it a job , but if somehow you put it nicely as a internship , or unpaid internship , you might be lucky enough to find someone that would like to invest some time on you . Keep in mind that apart from your will , there must be some supervisor that would be willing to guide you along the process . For that to happen , either there must a be an open position , or you have to convince them that you are worth it . One thing you could do is not to as for income , since you mention your main goal is to upgrade research experience . If you need income at any case , then you can as for student-job positions which are common in Europe ( especially in Germany ) . But , still the Professor will need to spend some of his funds on you . Prepare a good motivation letter to convince the Professor , get quality recommendation letters , show some proof that you have the potential to conduct research " independently " ( if you have some publications in the field that would help you ) , make sure you find a research group that fits you ( more precisely you fit them , in the sense that you know the field they are working on , you know the tools they use for the specific research ) But since you are a Bachelor student , and I assume you do n't have much to offer you should keep your demands as low as possible . Alternately , check if your university has cooperation with other universities , maybe you can go to a university that could fit you as an exchange student ?!
Complementing the other answers , either in addition to , or apart from , asking for the codes and running them yourself , I do n't think it is a bad idea to explicitly ask the authors , something like this : The standard algorithms for executing ( bla bla bla ) , e.g. as followed in the works of Refs . [ 1-3 ] ( feed these in ) , are suggestive of a standard accuracy in typical algorithms . The current work appears to have bettered the same , which is a strong point in favor of publication . However , the authors should include a comment in the manuscript , mentioning what changes have they implemented to the typical algorithms so highly prevalent , which leads to this enhanced accuracy . My jargon may have to be twisted a bit here , but I think I convey the point . This being a query in the referee report , the authors shall be obligated to feed in the details , and if there is some manipulation involved , it may end up being exposed . Hope that helps :)
This is , as you say , a common problem . It certainly is realistic to try to get more out of your students than the other faculty . However , depending on how substantial the gap is between the norm and your expectations , getting into a better school may turn out to be the only realistic and sustainable way of aligning goals and reality . If the statement that the PhD theses in the new school are like bachelor theses in the old school is not just hyperbole , this may certainly turn out to be the case for your friend . how can he motivate his students to work harder and produce better work when other students in the program do n't ? Step 1 is certainly to figure out why they should work harder than their peers ( who still graduate ! ) in the first place . It 's likely that your friend never really gave this much thought , because in his old school , working your ass off was simply what PhD students do . Here it is n't , so he needs to find a motivator that works for them . The two solutions offered by Brian ( tell them that they wo n't find an academic job if they do n't publish , and show them what cool things they could be doing ) are good , but they will work only if they actually have aspirations to stay in academia , or respectively have substantial internal drive to do good research . Both may have been a given in the old school , but not necessarily so in the new one . Other potential motivators may include : Getting to see nice conference venues ( do n't laugh - this works much better than you think as a motivator ) Serving as a stepping stone for a cool industry internship , e.g. , at Microsoft . Finding a problem that they personally really want to solve , i.e. , real curiosity-driven research . Bonuses ! Most likely difficult to implement in many universities , but depending on his financial capabilities , there should be some goodies that he can offer in exchange for going beyond the work of peers . It does not need to be a super-formal , but knowing that the students that work hard and get published are also the ones that get new laptops first is certainly a motivator for some students . The most important step is really to start giving it a thought why they should be working hard in the first place , rather than lamenting why they do n't . Step 2 , and strongly connected to Step 1 , is then to find the right students . This was again something he has maybe not given too much thought , as in his old school most students were good to excellent . In his new school , there are almost certainly also people for which some of the above motivators will work and compel them to produce good research , but he will need to identify and actively recruit them to his cause . The most important part of this is to make clear that things in his lab are different than in the rest of the department . Students are not graduating without papers . Students are expected to work on their research X hours a week , for whatever a realistic X is , and so on . If this is the message that your friend is communicating plausibly , most of the students will stay far away from working with him , but that is ok - he does not want those students anyway . However , even at a weaker school , there are likely going to be students who are dissatisfied with the status quo and who are actually going to be appealed by your friend 's less lenient approach to PhD school , especially once he builds up a track record of students actually going beyond the norm in the school . Step 3 is going to be the most difficult , but maybe the most important , step . He then needs to meet his students half-way . Despite all of the above , he is still not going to be working at a top-tier research university . That means he will need to re-evaluate his expectations on his students and the papers they produce . This may include both , quality and quantity of results . He needs to realise that it actually is much harder for his students to produce good work in this environment than what it was for him . He likely had a stimulating and high-competition environment to work in . They just have him , and maybe one or two other more ambitious students . All the other students ( who plan to graduate without papers ) are frankly more of a distraction than support for them . All the other faculty are simply of not much help . At the end , he may be ok with his students not , or not immediately , submitting to the very best venues . Instead , he needs to ease them into it ( without teaching them bad practices ) . In computer science , a good way may be to initially submit to workshops at the top conferences . This is allows students to go to the top conferences and see what the work is like that is published there , but getting a paper accepted at those workshops is achievable for most students given a little supervision . Really , the core in this step is to get away from the mindset that is common at top schools that only the very best publication venues are good enough . What is also important in this step is the right kind of expectation manage
Simple ideas : Seminar where a professor gives a talk on his/her current research . Provide beer . Invite an alum from one of the companies you 're talking about to give a talk on something new from the company . Provide beer . Simple cook-out , which includes beer ( even better if this is a recurring event , monthly , once a semester , etc. ) . More involved ideas : Mini-poster conference , where a quorum of students have posters about their current research . Alum can act as judges , if you want to award prizes . Provide beer . Invite a famous alumus to give a talk . This always involves more work than you 're expecting , but can have big pay-offs . Might necessitate actual cocktails ( and possibly pay for the speaker , but if you play it right you should find an alumnus willing to do it for free ) . Field-trip to a local engineering firm that may have something interesting to look at ( or a tour ) . Drinks at a local bar afterward .
In the US , supervising graduate students is generally considered part of the normal workload of a faculty member and there 's no extra pay for doing this . The number of students supervised is typically a factor in tenure , promotion , and pay raise evaluations . Not supervising enough graduate students can hurt your evaluations and might possibly result in your not getting tenure or promotion or a pay raise .
Krantz in How to Teach Mathematics does actually want to become friends with his students ( Sec . 3.1 , Breaking the Ice ) : Since I so enjoy a class once we have all become friends , I find the period of tooling up to that happy steady state generally too long and too painful . What usually happens is that there is a period of two to five weeks during which the students look at me as though I am from Mars ... You should consider ways to make yourself seem like a human being to your students ... Find some way to open up to your students so that they will open up to you ... My view is that you should show students from day one that you are a person , and that you are going to spend the term doing your best to communicate with them . But elsewhere gives this warning ( Section 2.10 , Grading ) : You do not want to develop the reputation among students as an instructor with whom grades can be negotiated . I 've had this rep , and I do n't know how I got it ... This process is unpleasant and ( can be ) degrading both for you and the student . Doing a careful job of grading in the first place , and posting carefully written solutions for students to see , can help to assuage much of student discomfort with grades . Now , Krantz is a teacher " of long experience " ( Sec . 3.1 ) , and I can see this being interpreted differently/incorrectly if you are close in age to your students . Also , this will vary based on your institution and quality/maturity of students that you 're getting . In my experience at community colleges , the strategy I was forced to start using early on was to be relatively strict at the start of the semester ( adamantly not allowing any bit of variation from the course policies when students test them ) , and then becoming a bit more flexible and friendly later in the semester . Added : More Krantz ( Section 5.9 , Begging and Pleading ) : It really is true that if you look and/or act like a student then students will find you more approachable . They will more readily come to you with propositions that they would n't consider broaching with a more wizened ( or older ) faculty member . In short , younger faculty are more vulnerable . This is one reason for dressing differently from students and maintaining a slight distance . Again , this may sound cold . But I speak here from hard personal experience .
The difference between descriptive writing and critical writing is much like the difference between a newspaper report and an opinion column . Descriptive writing is the act of reporting on what 's in the literature : Smith found that when X occurred Y and Z also happened . Critical writing analyzes what has been done , and takes note of trends , as well as possibly offering feedback on the overall quality of the research : Smith found X occurred in the presence of Y and Z , as did Jones . However , Doe has demonstrated that Y and Z normally occur in conjunction with one another , so it is not clear if X actually influences Y and Z , or if it is an independent effect . What you can see from the above is that critical writing does require some descriptive writing , but it goes well beyond it in terms of the depth of analysis .
If the advisor is well respected externally in her field and active ( what is her publication/conference record in the last 5 years ? ) and relatively supportive in other ways ( interesting conversations about research topics , is available in person when students drop , has funding ) and if she has a group of supported students/postdocs in her group ; then my advice is to decide whether your personality allows you ( cheerfully or pretend-cheerfully ) to take on some leadership roles in self-mentoring . start a weekly or bi-weekly group meeting , journal club , or similar where also people in the group talk about what they are doing . ( try to arrange that it is convenient time ( check his class schedule/university meetings ) but do the meetings even the weeks he can not show . schedule a 20-30 minute meeting with him once every week or two regularly to discuss progress , do n't count on him to set it up . Make sure to prepare something ( at the beginning ) that is n't asking for help so much as showing off things you find interesting or have accomplished that week . The point is to avoid appearing as if you need hand-holding , but to get some interactions going which are positive and useful for yourself to succeed . ( And show of how much of a self-starter you are ) . The delay in publishing papers - if there are senior co-authors , also look to them . On the other hand - choose another advisor Sometimes email gets buried , but a consistent ' never replying or acknowledging an email from student ( colleagues , department admin ) ' gives me the heebie-jeebies . We have had several faculty in my department over the years who had that trait and in their particular cases it never made any sense except as some stupid passive-agressive issue . So , on the basis of that trait alone , I 'd suggest finding someone else who is more excited about their work and respectful of other 's time and energy .
Offering to give a presentation about your work sounds like a very good idea . I would suggest contacting the professor as soon as possible saying that you would be keen to present your work . By giving them early notice , you give them the chance to either arrange something for you , or to pass your details onto anybody in the wider department who may run the sorts of seminars/colloquiums where such talks often take place . In terms of other things you could do , if they 've already told you that you 'll be introduced to other members of the research team then that sounds like a lot of that will be organised for you . Another thing you may want to consider is to see what other regularly seminars , journal clubs , research groups , etc. already exist that might be of interest to you . If this is somewhere that you may have the opportunity to go and work at then you want to have the fullest sense of what your working environment would be like . As for putting it on your CV , I 'm not entirely sure that a visit is entirely relevant . If it was a visiting job then include it , but something casual like this probably not . It is the sort of thing that may be well worth discussing ( if it 's relevant ) in a cover letter or supporting statement that goes alongside applications .
" The most exciting phrase to hear in science , the one that heralds new discoveries , is not ' Eureka ! ' but rather , ' hmm ... that 's funny ... " ( Isaac Asimov , thanks to EnergyNumbers for reminding me of it ) If you 're worried that it will distract the flow of your thesis , why not put it in a " special " part of your thesis ( e.g. , an appendix ) and refer to that from the main text , at the point that would be most logical . [ Following the description of your experiment . ] In the next few sections , I describe the results obtained from operating the Pocket Helium Flux Positron Annihilator on a variety of samples : metals ( section II.B ) , graphene ( section II.C ) and heavy water ( section II.D ) . You will also find in Appendix A a description of the observations made following an accidental operation of PHFPA without a helium flux [ you may not want to be specific and say : some moron forgot to replace the bottle ] which allowed to check what happens when electroneutrality is violated on the m scale . An appendix is a good place , or maybe a small section as the end of the relevant chapter .
I was asked to provide my comment as an answer , so here it is . It is yet another way to cite software . However , it requires some effort from the software authors . I developed an Open Source Web tool for modeling and gathering data when following a certain theory/methodology in software engineering . Here is how you would cite it : Graziotin , D and Abrahamsson , P 2013 . A Web-based modeling tool for the SEMAT Essence theory of software engineering . Journal of Open Research Software 1 ( 1 ) : e4 , DOI : <URL> This is possible because I opted to publish a software paper in the <URL> . It is a fully Open Access journal . This journal only accepts software papers on open source software for research . A software paper is a special kind of paper , which describes the software-e.g. , what is it about , implementation and architecture , its availability , and its reuse potential . The editorial process works as in any other research venue , and articles are peer-reviewed . The article processing charges are 25GBP . However , they can be fully waived if you can not afford them . What it is nice with this approach is that researchers have an extra motivation to open their software for research : they get a publication for that , plus citations . Additionally , writing a software paper is far easier than writing a methodology paper . I wrote a <URL> . TL ; DR ; Great experience , go for it .
The PhD is generally awarded to students for their individual contributions to science . That 's the whole point . It 's not only about advancing science , but advancing science yourself . Otherwise , we would grant a new PhD to each member of a research team every time they had significant new results . Everyone is aware that it 's possible to be more productive in teams , but the degree itself is really only about what you can add . So the encouragement to work on your own is there to make it easier to demonstrate what you have personally added to the body of knowledge in your area . Distinguishing your work from another student 's could be very hard if you do everything together . This is the traditional view at the very least . All this being said , discussions , brainstorming , help diagnosing problems should all be a part of students working with others ( students , postdocs , researcher professionals , the supervisor , and other faculty ) . You just have to keep your work separate enough that you can make an easy case for yourself when it comes time to defend your dissertation .
First , some conferences have really strict timing and you will be given no extra time . Second , if there is important slide or two , just do it . But make sure that you only slightly extend your time ( e.g. 10 % ) . If you are going to extend it by 50 % , or 200 % ( I saw that , and I was pissed at both the speaker and even more - the chair for allowing that ) - please , do n't . Side note : as a chair I am an ass . And while I give something like 1 min grace time ( for 15 min talks ) , then after that : speaker : " But there is an important slide afterwards ! " me : " But not as important as other participants ' time . " EDIT : By all means I recommend rehearsing and finishing on , or before , time . I only answer the question - whether to use extra 40 sec for 2 unfinished slides or not . " You should prepare to avoid such situation " is as on-topic as " you should go fishing instead of attending a conference " . ( If the question is " Given X , should I do A or B ? " all legitimate answers should assume " X " , even if it is a suboptimal/nasty/unprofessional / embarrassing situation . )
end question
start question
Should I quote Wikipedia if I ca n't rephrase it ?
Should I quote Wikipedia if I ca n't rephrase it ? Yes . If the important thing is the facts ( and not the phrasing ) , then forget what Wikipedia said , read the source cited there , and work from that to find your own wording . But if Wikipedia has a better phrasing than anyone else has , and you want to copy that phrasing , then you need to credit it to Wikipedia . You should n't use this phrasing while trying to disguise the fact that it came from Wikipedia , or try to modify it just enough that nobody can be sure of its origins . You should either credit Wikipedia or rewrite it from scratch . If the quote is genuinely great , then using it makes sense , and nobody will care that it came from Wikipedia . ( It 's reasonable to question Wikipedia as a source for facts , but that 's not a reason to avoid crediting it for good writing . ) However , I 'm not convinced this quote is so obviously wonderful that quoting it would look natural . Would it be that much worse to say something like this ? " Schroedinger 's book was written for a popular audience , but it was nevertheless highly influential among scientists . For example , it inspired Crick to take up the problem of the physical basis of genetics . " ( Note that the Derry reference you mention never says it inspired Watson except via Crick . Wikipedia cites Watson 's book " Avoid Boring People " for its influence on Watson , but I have n't checked what he says there . Derry cites " The Double Helix " , but I have n't checked that either . In any case , you 'd need to check these references , see how to incorporate Watson , and add a suitable citation . ) I 'm not saying this phrasing is ideal , but it could be good enough , and I bet you could come up with various alternatives , depending on exactly what you want to convey . I doubt it 's crucial to your paper that this one sentence convey exactly what Wikipedia said . If it is , then quoting Wikipedia is fine , and if it 's not , then the whole issue is not so important .
In general , you can put pretty much whatever you want in your CV ( unless there is a template , in which case deciding what to put or not should be pretty straight-forward ) . The question is : what is the point of putting a piece of information in your CV ? Usually , a CV is used in the context of a recruitment process , where the point , in the end , is to give reasons to the recruiter to recruit you instead of someone else . Hence , a piece of information contained in a CV should be instructive , for instance by ensuring that you do have the proper credentials , or by providing evidence that you can be apt to the position you are applying for . Perhaps attending conferences is something relatively rare in your field , and you have attended more than the average PhD students ? In that case , listing all the conferences you have attended could indicate you are very interested in keeping up with recent advances in your field . It could also show that you enjoy travelling . Perhaps you have secure internal or external funding to attend that conference ( i.e. , the funding was not automatically given ) ? That 's also good evidence . You could list them if it provides evidence for an aspect that you are willing to emphasise in your application . On the other hand , if the conferences you have attended had nothing special , or do not help emphasising any particular point , then you might want to keep the space in your CV for something else .
Different institutions have different policies on robes for faculty members at graduations , although most will arrange for robes for faculty who do not have their own . However , if you take advantage of this option , you might not get much choice in your regalia - so if the institution that you are graduating from has its own particular design for regalia that you love , it might be worth getting your own . I have heard that there are institutions who will require that all faculty members wear the same design of regalia for graduation ceremonies , in which case spending a lot of money on a non-traditional set - which you then can not wear at commencements - would be less than optimal . Since you have an assistant professor job lined up , you could just ask someone at your new institution what the policies are there .
The quotation is really more for fun than for substance , so you 've got a lot of leeway , and even more so because this is in a Ph.D. thesis . So really , it 's up to you whether you translate it at all . That said , I would suggest approaching it based on the degree to which you like the prosody and meter of the quotation . If the sound of the words themselves is a significant part of what makes you enjoy the quote , then by all means keep it in the original language , where it will be well appreciated by some readers and challenge the rest . If the substance is more important than the sound , then it may be better to translate . For example , I do n't know much of German quotations , but if I were using a French quotation , then I would not translate " Ceci n'est pas une pipe , " but I would definitely translate " Les grandes personnes ne comprennent jamais rien toutes seules , et c'est fatigant , pour les enfants , de toujours et toujours leur donner des explications . "
Most established academic journals are indexed in what are logically called " journal indexes " . These indexes commonly record all publication metadata , and usually also include a record of all citations . Such indexes are thus called <URL> . Now , the problem with viXra is inherent to its " alternative " nature : it is most definitely not indexed by conventional players ( Web of Science , CrossRef , PubMed , CAS , etc. ) . You thus have two ways of looking for citations to your paper : <URL> includes content from viXra in its results ( see <URL> 's first hit , for example ) . It probably also records citations of such articles , but the quality of citation matching is limited by Google 's heuristic algorithms . They 're good , but not as good as DOI-based mechanism that commercial databases nowadays employ . A regular web search with you name , or the title of your paper . This is not as automated , but it may give good results as to who is citing your work , especially if this is one of your first papers and you do n't yet have a large web presence . ( Obvious caveat : if your name is John Smith or Li Wang , web search will not help much . )
It does n't sound like he is just being kind . Using the wording " strongly encourage " is a good sign . Many US universities do not let individual professors have much of a say in a admissions and his response may be a reflection of that . Furthermore , many professors are not willing to commit to advising any students before they have been accepted . It sounds like this professor wants you to apply and would be open to talking more if you are accepted ( or are visiting ) . You can continue to look for advisers , but I 'd imagine most of them will say the same thing . It 's never a bad idea to see what else is out there , but it 's hard for many professors to say much this early in the process .
It sounds to me like he is just making sure that you will have other options if it turns out the school wo n't admit you with an outside advisor . I do n't think there 's any harm at all in telling the truth . If he wants you as a student , the fact you have other options should n't make a big difference to how much he is willing to help you in the admissions process . In fact , sometimes having other options can even make you more desirable , as it indicates other people/schools think you are valuable too . ( In my case , having other offers allowed me to negotiate a slightly better package at my top choice grad school . ) If you 're worried that he will be less interested in helping you with your application if he knows you are also looking elsewhere , you could always say that you have applied to/been offered place ( s ) elsewhere , but that the opportunity to work with him remains your top choice . Regardless of how you reply to him , however ( and as I said , I do n't see any reason not to tell the truth ) , I would say that it 's always a good idea to apply to a range of schools . Hopefully you will get in to the school you want and be able to work with him , but if the school has indicated there might be a problem with this ( even if you and the professor think they are wrong ) , you may want to have other options .
If you are applying as an international student , you need TOEFL . It does not depend on you high school education . For international students , you will be considered as a non-native english speaker , so toefl is necessary . If you are applying as a domestic student ( meanign you have citizenship/greencard ) , you dont need toefl . Anyways , toefl is a very easy exam !
some have suggested complaining or going to some authority , but offer no specific suggestions about how to do this First , you need to understand how the authority chain is structured in academia . Your first course of action is to confront the instructor , which you 've already done . The next step up would be the department head , and after that , the dean of the school -- but I would n't recommend going past the department head with your complaints . You need to do this very carefully . You need to be level-headed , respectful , factual , and specific . Be sure your case is compelling . In the event of a " he-said/she-said " debate , assume the department head will probably lean toward having the faculty member 's back , rather than believing an offended student . Many students are too quick to complain when things do n't go their way , making it easy for complaints to fall on deaf and jaded ears . For example , in the scant details you 've provided here : Assignments are graded without rubric . I wo n't dispute the value of rubrics , but this is hardly a grievous offense . Many instructors do n't opt to use rubrics . Homework is graded inconsistently with instructions . This will be very hard to prove . A lot of assignments are by nature subjective , and it 's hard to pinpoint why grades are given the way they are . Students often turn in work that is inconsistent . For example , say I assign some problem to be answered with an essay question . One student gets right to the heart of the matter , but the overall work is sloppy , and it reads like a draft that was hastily written 10 minutes before class . Another misses the point a little bit , but the essay is carefully crafted and has a lot of supporting detail . A third addresses the matter from an angle I had n't considered before . How are my instructions supposed to cover all those cases , and more ? ( Moreover , assignment instructions are often very hard to get right the first time around , because you do n't yet know how students might misinterpret stated requirements . ) Tests are very hard , but contain no relationship to the course assignments and lessons . The first part of that is not a problem , although the second part is . If you start out by complaining about difficult tests , you may come across as a whiner and get very little sympathy or support . Be very careful about even mentioning that " tests are very hard . " You 'll also have to figure out what you want the end goal of your complaints to be . Do you want action taken before the semester is over ? Or are you only looking to give feedback so that next year 's students do n't find themselves in the same unfortunate circumstances ? If you 're hoping for intervention this term , probably the best you could hope for is for the department head to counsel the instructor , urging him to get his act together before the end of the term . But there are two sides to every story , and , unless your complaints are true on a large level , you 're unlikely to get much sympathy . In other words , a bad question here and there on an exam is part of getting a new course underway , as are confusing assignments . If these are just normal " growing pains , " you 'll come off as a malcontent . On the other hand , if these are verifiable , wholesale shortcomings in the ability to conduct a course fairly and effectively , you might get a department head to step in , and urge the professor to get his act together . Even then , though , you 'll probably have to make it to the end of the course , and you might see very little improvement . It 's unlikely that the instructor will be reassigned midstream . In short , you 'll have to convince the department head that this faculty member is bordering on incompetence , and that it 's not merely a case of an unpopular professor . This might be a tough sell .
There 's a small chance it might help but probably not . If your page has been on the internet for any length of time then it 's already going to be stored in a number of library archives like archive.org It 's possible to remove pages from the site but it takes time and there are other archives . Example : <URL> Also your publications are likely to be searchable through a number of online systems for finding papers such as google scholar .
I 'm not sure what your discipline is , but I understand the situation you 're describing . Does your school have a general education-type program in which you could offer some tantalizing courses ? We 've had a lot of success with a course on " banned books , " " Shakespeare on Film , " or " The Vampire Tradition . " Such courses , if interesting enough , might bring more students into your major . I taught a " Fundamentals of Lit " class that was intended for non-majors , and I had Engineering and Computer Science students who told me it was the first time they 'd read a story in college and they really enjoyed the class . The other point you raise somewhat indirectly -- the value of the study of humanities . This is one of those " do n't get me started " kinds of topics , because I believe the value of it is tremendous in a number of ways , but most important to other majors is the increased ability to communicate effectively . Business majors may get what seems to be a " good-paying job " upon graduation , but without the communication and critical thinking skills they would learn in the Humanities , they 're not going to progress very far .
What you 're referring to is an indirect source . In general , you should always work as hard as you can to find the original source . If that is not possible , all of the major style guides include a way to cite indirect sources . Note that you should not cite Wikipedia ( see the " do not cite Wikipeida " note at the end of this answer ) . If an indirect citation is absolutely necessary , it should come from a reputable , peer-reviewed journal or other academically respected source . According to <URL> , the MLA rule is to name the author of the indirect source in the text and cite the work you have in-hand : For such indirect quotations , use " qtd . in " to indicate the source you actually consulted . For example : Ravitch argues that high schools are pressured to act as " social service centers , and they do n't do that well " ( qtd . in Weisman 259 ) . Note that , in most cases , a responsible researcher will attempt to find the original source ... <URL> further clarifies that the indirect work should be included in your Works Cited list : ... include the indirect source in the Works Cited . The APA rule ( also from <URL> ) is to exclude the indirect source ( called the " original source " , below ) from your reference list and only include the work you have in-hand ( called the " secondary source " ) : ... name the original source in your signal phrase . List the secondary source in your reference list and include the secondary source in the parentheses . Johnson argued that ... ( as cited in Smith , 2003 , p. 102 ) . [ ... ] Also , try to locate the original material and cite the original source . The Chicago rule ( once again , from <URL> ) is to cite the indirect source , followed by the in-hand resource : ... Chicago discourages the use of [ indirect sources ] . In the case that an original source is utterly unavailable , however , Chicago recommends the use of " quoted in " for the note : Ian Hacking , The Social Construction of What ? ( Cambridge , MA : Harvard University Press , 1999 ) , 103 , quoted in Manuel DeLanda , A New Philosophy of Society ( New York : Continuum , 2006 ) , 2 . That said , do not cite Wikipedia in a formal document ( unless , perhaps , you are actually writing about Wikipedia or collaborative editing techniques ) . I love Wikipedia , and I believe it is reasonably well-maintained and has a lot of good information . However , you have no way to verify if the information in an article is true -- or , if you do have a source to verify it , you would just cite that source . Aside from the tired , " Anyone can edit it ! " complaint , two severe issues with Wikipedia as a citation source are : You get whatever version of an article stands at the exact moment your web browser fetches the page . No matter how hard Wikipedia 's editors work , they ca n't stop a bad edit from reaching your web browser if it was made seconds before you fetched the page . Wikipedia does n't undergo any kind of pre-publication review ; all review is post-publication , which means you may see totally unreviewed information . ( You can mitigate this by citing a specific past revision , but it still stands that a post-publication review process means that any given revision of an article could have claims that have been reviewed by absolutely no one except the author . ) In order for a reader or reviewer to ascertain the usefulness of a source , it must have an identifiable set of authors ( or , for anonymous works , at least a consistent , reasonably small set of authors ) . Wikipedia makes that requirement incredibly difficult to satisfy . ( Again , it 's possible to satisfy this requirement if you cite a specific revision of a page and find out what contributors wrote each part of a page , but it is still difficult since a potentially huge number of contributors have helped build that revision . ) It 's hard for a Wikipedia article to be reputable where there are no clearly identifiable authors to which a reader could attach a reputation .
Unless it is the fact that paper A quotes paper B that you intend to highlight in your thesis and not the content of the quote from paper B itself , you need to read paper B . If you reproduce the quote by itself , you should cite the original . If you need to refer to paper A 's reference to B , then you need to cite both .
No , and no . You should not try to hype up yourself with subjective comments in your CV or elsewhere in job applications , say . Other people do n't do this , and if you do you will seem strange and possibly desparate . Your CV should be a list of objective information . It is the job of your references to compare your work to other people 's and say how impressive it is . About the most you can do is keep the review in a personal " feel good " folder and look back at it when you need self-encouragement .
My wife and I were both MEXT scholarship recipients for the graduate school " research student " scholarship . I got mine in the US by embassy recommendation . My wife got hers in Japan by university recommendation . ( University recommendation within Japan is highly competitive and would be impossible without very good on the ground connections at a university that receives slots from the Monkasho ) . Assuming you mean the embassy/consulate version , you need to apply to the consulate that covers your city . There 's a written test and an interview . Depending on the numbers , they will either do everything on the same day ( common in the US ) or split everything across multiple days . To successfully get a scholarship via consulate/embassy recommendation from India , you are going to need to do really well on the written test for Japanese and the test for English . Moreover , I would recommend ( against the instructions the consulate may supply ) first identifying professors in Japan with whom you would be interested in pursuing a graduate degree . After you 've come up with a list , e-mail them indicating you are hoping to apply for a MEXT scholarship . With this in hand , you can describe a specific project . This is key because you need to submit a project idea as part of your application . Preferably , you should write this in Japanese and get it checked by a native speaker capable of academic writing . With this in hand , you will also have an interview if you make it that far . I have no idea how the interview is evaluated , so I do n't have any tips on that . At the time I applied , I was already in a PhD program in the US in my 3rd year , had Japanese grammar knowledge at about the N3 level , kanji knowledge at roughly the N2 level ( currently , I have the JLPT N1 ) . I had lined up a project with a Japanese professor . I may have already met with him at that point in time . Best of luck .
This can not be answered in general . It depends on the contract you have with the institution and the applicable law in your jurisdiction . It may depend on how you were funded as well . I know of examples from both extremes : your university owns 100 % and your university owns nothing , as well as everything in between . Some intermediate setting is probably more common , but , as I said , it depends .
Yes it definitely can be done . If you have an idea then do a literature review of the subject and if you have a contribution that builds on the activity in one of the journals you find then publish there . Perhaps also look into doing a conference paper first . See <URL> for the difference between the two . The best co-author for your case would probably be a professor or grad student at your university . No , co-authors are not required . They can be useful though if you need their help/skills in the project . In computer science , journal papers usually occur during one 's PhD . Bright Masters and Honours students usually start publishing conference papers , but journal papers are not unheard of .
You should use the date conferred . Universities will have an official date where all degrees for the term are conferred on everyone . This is usually not the same date as the graduation ceremony as there can be multiple graduation ceremonies across multiple days , but trying to keep track of all of them would be confusing . It 's much simpler to just pick one day after all the ceremonies and say all degrees are official as of that date . That being said , I 've never heard of an employer ( or anyone ) who really cares about the particular date as long as it 's clear that you 've already met all of the requirements of graduation .
Nope , and I doubt anyone would notice or care . Everyone can be a member , all it takes is a bit of money .
I would recommend raising your concern to the editor . If the editor is honest , they will not ask the authors to follow the citations en masse . Given that the citations are all in the same journal , however , it is possible that the editor is part of the same citation cartel and may blow off your concern . In this case , it may be worth raising the concern to the publisher and/or one of the major indices . Citation cartels have been gaining attention in recent years , and if this is part of a systematic pattern of coercive citation , then those larger organizations may be motivated to investigate and sanction .
end question
start question
How can my colleague use our joint results in his PhD thesis ?
Do n't worry , be happy ( and be truthful ) . There 's nothing wrong in including in one 's thesis stuff that you did n't do yourself , as long as the delimitation between what the candidate did and what others did is clearly marked . And by that , I mean no lies , but also no half-truths either . Basically , the presentation will thus depend on the interaction between you two and his part in the analysis ( which ranges from " nothing " to " he suggested ideas that I tried " to " he ran my code himself " ) . In the first case , he could say : As part of project X , I sent these results to Dr. John Doe at Big U. for him to perform his widely acclaimed topological Bayesian half-filter analysis . This analysis revealed that ... There 's nothing wrong with presenting results obtained by others from your work , as long as they shed light into the phenomenon you 're studying . I once had a student who published a work , which was built upon by another group during his PhD , and he presented this at some length ( and critiqued their extension ) in his thesis . That 's part of the whole story . If the collaboration was closer , just make sure the thesis clearly indicates its nature and the contribution of everyone . Then , no fuss !
In computer science in general , you can submit thesis extracts to conference just as freely as you would submit them to a journal . In both cases , the principle is the same : a thesis is not really a peer-reviewed publication , so your submission would still be the first peer-reviewed publication of the material . You must , however , cite your thesis and clearly acknowledge the source of the material as being adapted from your thesis .
For things like the list of authors at the top of a page , the authors do n't put those into their own manuscript at all : they are added in by the publisher during layout . The publisher will work to their own style guide . That style guide may be based on some combination of tradition , design aesthetics and user feedback . In those rare cases where the author is responsible for putting these in , here are the rules , in descending order of precedence . Do what the style guide says . If that 's not clear , ask the editor ( for a journal paper ) or your supervisor ( for a thesis ) If you still do n't have a clear answer , do what other recent documents that are most similar to yours have done ( so for theses , this would be the most recent theses in your department ) If you still do n't have a resolution , use your own aesthetic judgement .
You may if you want to , but it is not generally required . Of course , check your local regulations . It is recommended to plan on having an index or not when you start , rather than adding it later . Indexes were not required in the past , though check historical local regulations .
As many have pointed out in the comments ( Nate Eldredge , Dan Romik , Per Alexandersson , etc. ) , the point is not to catch you cheating ( as if you were intentionally trying to manipulate your results ) , but rather to verify your process of obtaining such results . We all should be so lucky as to have an adviser take the time out of his/her schedule to verify our processes . I would also like to add that -- and this assumes your thesis could/will lead to an academic publication at a journal or conference -- that your adviser 's reputation is potentially on the line by attaching his/her name to such a document . In other words , by becoming a co-author on your [ future ] publication , your adviser is essentially saying , " Yes , I helped work on this , and I am sure of the methods and the results contained within . " The bottom line ( tl ; dr ) is that you should n't take this as a personal attack . You should be thankful to have someone who can invest the amount of time necessary to ensure the correctness of the work you 've done .
Generally , the agreement that you sign with a journal publisher is not just to allow publication , but rather to transfer ownership of the copyright to the publisher . After that point you do n't own the copyright and ca n't publish the material your self except under the terms of the copyright transfer agreement . Some agreements are quite liberal while others are more strict . However , most journal publishers specifically allow for the publication of papers that are substantially similar to parts of " published " MS theses and PhD dissertations - under this system you can still make copies of your thesis or dissertation freely available online . Furthermore many publishers are OK with theses or dissertations that basically consist of chapters that were previously published as papers in their journals . A few publishers ( for example I believe that this was an issue with the American Chemical Society although they 've updated their policy ) have not allowed these practices . In short , copyright is most likely not going to be an issue in publishing research papers based on your thesis . Another issue that you did n't discuss in your question is rewriting the thesis material to fit into the short form of a journal article . Thesis chapters usually need to be significantly shortened for journal publication .
Just because it 's not published does n't preclude being able to cite it . You ca n't not cite the thesis if you 're taking information from it ! The degree-granting institution should perpetually retain copies in its library , and most universities these days store PDF copies as well . A copy may be harder to track down , but a determined reader should have no enormous difficulty in getting a copy of the thesis . Example : Smith B. ( 2013 ) , General Relativity , MSc thesis , University of Cambridge , UK .
Of course , you 'll get there by engaging in a lot of activities where you will meet new people and work with people who will learn to know you . I recommend choosing them according to a few criteria : Activities of a seemingly technical ( or practical ) nature . As a PhD student , you probably do n't want to be on boring committees , board-style meetings , interdepartmental seminars . You will meet people , but not in a way that fosters collaboration . ( However , you may want to attend these events for other purposes . Meeting key people involved in hiring decisions at a given institution is one such purpose that comes to mind . ) Informal settings . This favors meeting new people and getting to know them much better . Favor small meetings over big ones . Aim for a few persons you want to meet . Identify people you would like to approach ( at a big event ) , then check what events they attend . Manage to invite people for talks at your institution . Okay , this one might be a bit difficult for a PhD student in some places , but if you can manage to get someone invited for a day or two , get him to give a talk and discuss your research and his , it will be worth it . Do not shy away from " learning " events : tutorials , " hands-on with XXX library " type of things . All in all , I think the kind of events you want to engage in are : Open source projects : you listed that one already Workshops close to your research topic : these typically involve few people and long discussions . Many of my strongest collaborations ( and a few friendships ) grew out of workshops . Tutorials organized on topics related , but not too close , to your research : you will learn stuff , meet people in a relaxed setting . Do n't be shy of going to workshops where you already know some of the stuff , if only to put it in practice and discuss with the best experts . Also , be ready to present your own work and identify convergences with lecturers and other participants .
I highly value humor and love to entertain whenever I can . In formal writing , I would encourage you to go ahead and write something that you think would be funny . Then reread it . Then reread it again . Read it aloud . Read it silently . Read it again tomorrow while you edit it . And read it again . And again . And again . Imagine reading it out loud to the people with the least sense of humor you know . Imagine reading it to a person with a furrowed brow , in a bad mood , who is trying to find anything they can to rip apart what you have laid down , to find a reason to cast it aside as useless junk . Then read it 10 more times , as any good writer must inevitably do . Now imagine reading it again in 10 years ( if you are lucky and what you 've done turns out to be of use ) . Personally , I have found that after the 20 + time I 've read something , it is n't even funny to me anymore - and I think I 'm hilarious ! But even the best jokes I 've ever told never landed 100 % of time , or to 100 % of the audience - and in formal writing I do n't even know who the audience is - they might speak my language as a 2nd ( or 3rd or 4th ) language . Being stubborn , I like to write humor into anything I make . But after the 20th read through I realize it just is n't funny any more , even to me - and if that 's how a reader would feel who does n't get or appreciate the joke , it just is n't worth it any more to me to include it . I 'm basically writing a technical instruction manual , and there 's a reason those things are n't really funny - you are supposed to read them and refer back to them repeatedly , and jokes get old fast . If I really like a joke , I 'll save it for when I can make it in person , in a talk or in a presentation , when I can personally hear the laughs ( or gauge the room and know to skip it entirely ) . Or I 'll be funny on a website like this so I can wallow in a mass of glorious unicorn points . But in formal writing like a thesis or important research paper ? Well , you decide after you 've read it for the 30th time if it is still worth inclusion , or if that emoticon makes you smile - or if you want to poke it in its tiny little semi-colon eye .
Adobe Acrobat has a feature called <URL> . It lets multiple people in real-time comment on a single PDF so long as the PDF is hosted in a single place ( e.g. , if your department has network storage or there are services online to host such files ) . It works pretty well and is already built-in . Alternatively , you can email them each the PDF and then use the <URL> features to combine them , then send out that PDF . Not as nice but it does n't have to be hosted .
One may prove their knowledge by these aspects . They may have a certificate of the courses they have passed . They may have a publication or patent registration in the field of their personal studies . They may have worked in the field of their knowledge and their projects and portfolio is a proof of their knowledge . A website designer may not have any certification of their design knowledge , but the websites they have designed are the proof of their knowledge . You may have done voluntary/paid teaching at your undergraduate university or in an educational institute , so you have the certification of your teaching activity and that may be counted as a proof of your teaching and your knowledge . ( Also teaching/research assistantships to a course which you have never passed but you did assistantship in that area . ) You may have some publications in the area of your knowledge , for instance , a published paper or book ; or a contribution to a publication which is so related to your knowledge . You may have done some jobs related to your knowledge . An engineering design , done some code-developing , etc. . You may have a recommendation letter from a professor in which has written that you have sit in their class for that course , but you have never registered for the course ; so it proves that you have the knowledge of the course . However , as far as you are registering for a graduate program , you must fulfill their requirements not what is generally/logically reasonable or what seems to be acceptable . So it is better to provide all your proofs in your CV or their application process website and let them ask you for more official documents . Also , you can email them and ask for your special issue . P.S. . It seems that your question indicates self-study knowledge , but some people may have done some non-degree programs and certificates of those courses may also prove their knowledge in the course .
You ca n't ethically do anything based on ideas from this paper until it is made public ( by the authors as a preprint , or by the publisher ) . In particular , before that point you ca n't refer to the paper , you ca n't use the ideas without referring to it , you ca n't publish or otherwise disseminate results based on it , and you ca n't discuss it with other people , including your collaborators . It can be really frustrating to know something important and be unable to tell anyone else for the time being , but there 's no way around it ethically . The reason is that submitting a paper for publication is not considered to release it for other use or dissemination until it is actually published . The people involved in processing and evaluating it ( most notably the editors and reviewers ) have an ethical obligation to keep all information about the submission strictly confidential and not to use it to gain any personal advantage . Once it is published of course it can be treated the same as any other paper , and in the meantime the authors can choose to make information publicly available via preprints or talks ( in which case others can follow up on this information as appropriate ) , but nobody else is authorized to release any information before publication beyond what the authors have chosen to share , or to use it for any purpose other than reviewing the paper . Otherwise it has the same ethical status as using material you stole off the authors ' desks . There 's no reason why the research community has to work this way in principle , but it 's the system that has evolved over time . ( Note that as recently as the 1930 's , famous physicists were <URL> as to how peer review should work . ) It 's possible that in the future we will move to systems such as submitting for publication only after releasing a preprint . That seems to be the trend in some fields , but we have n't yet made a full transition if we ever will , and the community 's ethical principles still offer protection to authors who choose not to distribute their paper before publication . Nobody signs a non-disclosure agreement when reviewing a paper , but the ethical principles are well established . Deliberately violating them would be a serious form of misconduct , which could easily be career-ending if it was more than a minor or technical violation . Pete L. Clark asks in the comments whether referees are allowed to prepare follow-up papers , as long as they do n't distribute them before the original paper becomes public . I.e. , does the " you ca n't ethically do anything based on ideas from this paper " really mean you ca n't do anything , or just that you ca n't disseminate anything yet ? ( Let 's assume it 's a single-authored paper that is not discussed with anyone else in advance . ) My interpretation is that nobody can stop you from thinking a little , and you may not even be able to stop yourself , but actively working on and writing a paper of your own would be abusing your position as referee . There probably is n't a consensus as to exactly where the line is for what 's strictly forbidden , but either side of the line could still look terrible . If you want to publish work you began thinking about as a referee , I 'd strongly recommend against doing it so quickly that 's it clear you had to have known about the original paper in advance .
In the context of a university , self-plagiarism ( or auto-plagiarism , as it tends to be known ) generally only refers to submitting the same work for two or more different credit-bearing assignments within the institution , or submitting work which has been awarded credits at another institution . There 's generally no restriction on using work submitted for a university degree in a publication , unless the university specifically expresses its ownership of that work ( which sometimes happens if the work was involved in a commercial or collaborative project ) . You can get into trouble for publishing the same work in more than one publication , but because the contract you sign with the publishers will specifically prohibit you from doing this ( or will specifically allow it ) this is not plagiarism as much as it is fraud . Even then , providing they know in advance , most publishers will allow authors to include chapters in monographs that are based around previously published articles , providing the initial copyright holder gives their consent ( which in academic work they usually will , as long as the original publication is cited ) .
The International Standard ISO 8601 is YYYY-MM-DD . See <URL> and <URL> . Sadly this is not used by everyone as can be seen in this <URL> : The most popular order is day-month-year ( Little-Endian , cyan in the image ) , used by about 57 % of the world population . Next is year-month-day ( Big-Endian , yellow ) , used by about 29 % . Then month-day-year ( Middle-Endian , magenta ) , used by about 6 % . The remaining 8 % use a mix of the above . <URL> But , in the end the most important is the standards used in your university or the conference or journal you are sending your papers to .
Supplementing the answer from abatkai : The rules likely vary by field also . In chemistry , converting previously published papers into a <URL> is generally accepted and commonplace . My thesis contained a chapter that was prefaced " Portions of this chapter were previously published as ( citation ) , and have been reproduced with permission . Copyright is held by ( publisher of the journal ) . " This was followed by further copyright information and the statement required by the publisher . My institution also required that I submit paperwork in support of my use of published and copyrighted material . In addition to consulting your adviser and your institution , you should consult the journals in which you publish . Many have policies in place for this . For example , from the American Chemical Society 's <URL> : The current ACS Journal Publishing Agreement covers several permitted uses by authors ... Permitted uses of all versions include : Use in theses and collections of your own work
No , but make sure you cite it and mention it , to avoid being accused of copying and pasting from Wikipedia . In any case , it is great that you have contributed to Wikipedia and I wish more people considered using pieces of their introductory chapters for Wikipedia . Just make sure that people know that you copied to , not from , Wikipedia . ( I mean , the order is irrelevant , i.e. whether you first wrote text for Wikipedia or your thesis , but the authorship is . )
Ok I did this before . This is actually quite simple and straightforward , so without sugar coating it , you should have three main parts : Introduction and Conclusion : The reader should be able to go only through your introduction and conclusion chapters , and see what is going on . I 'm hoping you know what chapter numbers they are by now ! Background and Related Work : After introduction you should have a solid background and related work chapter ( s ) . Do n't introduce something that you do n't use and do n't hide some background read here . Ok ok , the last two parts you did n't ask for but I wrote it to be a complete reference for others . Ok now to your questions : ' I 'm a qualified PhD ' chapters ! : Now two to four chapters should be explicitly cover your own work . So : 3.1 Separate theory from practice : I do n't want to see some theory stuff and then suddenly a pipeline to a compiler . It has many advantages in terms of defending it and then correcting it later on if necessary . Also the examiners will see that you are well rounded computer scientist ; therefore you know your practice as well as theory and vice versa . So basically , you do n't want to have an impression on examiners that you just injected theory/practice because you are weak in practice/theory . 3.2 Unify Your approaches : Can you find a common ground between all the techniques you used ? For example , you could have a chapter on code generation techniques , and then group all your work into one chapter . The pitfall here is to repeat the same approach over and over for different models . 3.3 Solid Evaluation : You need a solid evaluation , now that you used different techniques try to honestly evaluate them . Also , more importantly try to write a comparison between all of the techniques used and highlight each individual positive and/or negative outcomes . 3.4 Appendices : Moreover do n't just drop boilerplate code in your own chapters , try to use number of appendix for different parts of your code .
Talk to your adviser as soon as possible . I 'm a bit surprised that in your previous interactions your adviser did not already tell you whether and how he planned to contact the author ( s ) of the fallacious papers -- especially given that at least one was your adviser 's collaborator . Here is my advice ( it comes from a pure mathematician , if that is relevant to you ) : Spend up to one work day writing up a careful description of the error . If a result is false , give a counterexample . If you can give one specific , easy to verify counterexample , start with that . Then if you have a further sense of the " terrain of counterexamples " -- e.g. if you know the result is never true , or you know that it is true precisely under some additional hypothesis , then include that . The point of this is that in many cases what we perceive to be errors in mathematical work stem from misunderstandings between the reader and the author , including different use of the same terminology . I would say that approximately half of all the errors I think I see in my colleagues ' work turn out to have such innocent explanations . Another big percentage of suspected errors stem from misunderstandings of the part of the reader : it is one thing if you come across a result that contradicts another result you have already written up . However , if you are just reading then the odds are fair that the cognitive dissonance in your mind is not actually caused by a mistake in the paper : for instance when I read other people 's work , I try to do so with an eye towards its relationships to my own work and my own problems . As a proud student of the " Richard P. Feynman school of situational genius " I heartily endorse this approach , but sometimes it turns out that what I think is an error is due to an entanglement of " my situation " and the author 's . Finally , when an error has actually been made , there is usually ( very understandable ) psychological resistance on the part of the author . This is why it helps to arrive with individual , crisp counterexamples . If the theorem is correct but the proof is faulty , the situation may be more nebulous . Everyone has different standards of what constitutes an acceptable proof . Moreover , mathematicians are still human beings , and the percentage of inessential slipups we make in the course of our written work is non-negligible . Most people do not appreciate their expository flaws and bone-headed but unimportant mistakes being taken as evidence that their proofs are incorrect . In fact , where possible , when you claim that someone 's proof is faulty it is an honorable thing to give them a chance to correct it . In this case you speak of a " fundamental error " , which I guess means that it is worse than the relatively innocuous mistakes described above . Do you mean though that the theorems are still true , and you know this because you know how to prove them ? If so : Spend up to two or three work days writing up as much as possible of what you feel is a correct proof . If you can only give a sketch , so be it , but try to include all the ideas which convince you that your argument is correct . Your target audience includes people who are deeply committed to and knowledgeable in this particular area : you can write accordingly . I would meet with your advisor as soon as you have written each document . ( If you can write both in one day , great . ) Then the question becomes obvious and unavoidable : what should you do with these documents ? If he can vouch for their accuracy , I think you will certainly want to contact the author of the flawed paper , but whether to do this yourself or through your adviser is something you should ask him about . Why do I place time limitations on these tasks ? It is because of the following important observation , which in my understanding is somewhat peculiar to mathematics : Even if the author 's proof is wrong and yours is right , your corrected proof may or may not be publishable . There are too many nuances here for me to go over them all , but just one quick thing : you say that you fixed the result using material from old works . Because of this , it is possible ( perhaps ; I do n't know the situation ) that the authors and/or the editors in question will still regard the mistake as a " slip up " ( even if you do not ) . A math paper which does not contain " new results " , " new ideas " or " new techniques " may be very hard to publish ... let me readily admit that this practice is not entirely fair or wise , but it most certainly is extant . So you do n't want to spend substantial work time on what may end up being a corrigendum written by the author but identifying you as the provider of both the problem and the solution . Good luck .
Disclaimer : I am a current doctoral candidate with 2 years of experience as the graduate student representative on the admissions committee of my department ( in STEM ) at a major R1 university in the USA and so , write this answer from that context . Simply put , a strong research record matters . However , this comes with several caveats . For a successful doctoral application in our department , we look at 1 . Standardized Test Scores : These ( GRE/TOEFL ) will not get you in but can keep you out . Mostly , they serve as preliminary filters and to fulfill certain graduate school minimum requirements . 2 . GPA/Academic Record : This matters significantly . Relevant grades in relevant courses matter more . A 4.3 GPA from MIT in Mathematics and Computer Science is great for a Mathematics or Computer Science application . We tend to look at overall GPA 's and then at relevant courses to catch red flags . For instance , you want to develop novel machine learning algorithms but have a C + on " Introduction to Discrete Structures " and B - on " Statistical Data Mining " . Red flag ! 3 . Research Experience : Research experience is important but more so in different sub-fields . This is the same as publications but there are important variations . For instance , in the field of Human-Computer Interaction ( HCI ) , having a first author paper in <URL> or <URL> matters more than a first author paper in a conference the admissions committee most probably have n't heard about . If you want your research to speak up , then get published in the best conferences in your field . This is not a requirement but is a very good sign of your nascent research potential . Over the past few years , I have seen increasing numbers of applications to our department come from well qualified undergraduate and masters students with such records . Its a competitive world ! 4 . Letters of Recommendations : This should be correlated positively with research experience . If your letters talk about your wonderful performance in coursework , admissions committees are generally not very interested ( they can already see that from your transcripts ) . If , on the other hand , you have detailed letters of recommendation from researchers that the admissions committee might know and which attest to your research performance with them , then that is a very good sign indeed ! In other words , its all about signals , signs and red flags . Specifically , in response to your questions : It varies . Unpublished manuscripts are not worth much but can serve as a good writing sample in case you do not have any other publications .
How mathematicians collaborate depends ( among other things ) on their career stage . At the student level , the most common kind of collaboration could be more accurately described as a form of mentorship : you are working with a more senior guide , and that they mean to help you with your work and professional development is a key feature . This is different from the kind of collaboration you do ( in most cases ) one you get past the student / postdoc stage . At that point it is fair and only natural for someone who is considering collaborating with you to ask " What 's in it for me ? " The path of most graduate students is one of decreasing collaboration of the mentorship type ( in math , mentorship collaborations do not always result in the mentor being the coauthor , so e.g. it is not necessarily viewed as inconsistent for an advisor to talk about " our work " when the final product is a paper written only by the student ) and increasing independence from your mentors . Your trajectory sounds a bit different in that you already have solo papers ( although , as in the previous parenthetical , that may not describe the whole story ) . Another feature of student research -- the key feature , really -- is that whether your advisor is joining you in doing the mathematics or not , she is supposed to be involved in helping you choose problems to work on that she finds , by virtue of her greater knowledge / experience / cultural familiarity / political savvy , to be especially worthwhile and significant . A student who works on a problem for a while with no significant progress raises a little red flag in my head . One must ask : why are you not working solely on problems that either you know you are making progress on or your advisor is there to help you make progress on ? In our department there is absolutely no one interested in that subject . Another little red flag . What you are doing is not inherently bad but seems more risky than normal . I fear you are getting less than the standard amount of " mentorship collaboration " and I think you should consider moving somewhere else ( as a student , or possibly graduating ASAP and taking a postdoc ) where you can benefit from that . Anyway , there is a different kind of mathematical collaboration . ( By the way , @Significance has done a good job of describing it in her answer . But I want to write as a mathematician and in some more detail . ) If you want to start a collaboration with someone of this other sort , then typically this is founded on either significantly overlapping research interests or complementary skill sets , approaches and/or partial results . Maybe while reading a draft of a paper you see how to strengthen one of the results . In this case you can ( perhaps ) get added as a coauthor on a later draft , and especially if you are joining more than one other author this can be a good way to piggyback onto a longer term collaboration already in progress . <URL> is an example of mine . Maybe you have a draft of a paper and you see that your Theorem 2 is a variant of their Theorem 5 , so joining forces is a natural choice , if only for reasons of smoothing out the publication process . <URL> is an example of such a collaboration of my own , in which we each had overlapping manuscripts that we combined . I was happy with the resulting paper , which is a little more than the sum of its parts , and remain on good terms with the coauthor , but that was the extent of the collaboration . Maybe you discover that someone whom you previously did not know ( e.g. a recent PhD ) is working in the same area as you , or even on the same problem . Learning that someone else has been working on the same problem as you and that you each have partial results which have been obtained using ( even mildly ) different ideas and techniques can be immensely helpful . If each person 's perspective is rich enough so that the other can not readily incorporate it just by reading the other 's work , then this is often the beginning of a very fruitful collaboration . <URL> is an example of mine . Or maybe you run into " someone new " and discover that you both have aspirations to work on the same thing , and though you do n't have finished product , you each like the sound of the other 's ideas and think it will be better to work together . This is one of the purer forms of collaboration , but it seems to require a rather fortuitous set of circumstances . <URL> is an example of mine . Maybe you have a really attractive half of a result , and you 're looking for someone with distinctly complementary skills and/or results to form an attractive whole . Again , this can be hard to swing , but it 's satisfying when it works . <URL> is an example of mine . In this case , I had 2/3 of a new proof of a theorem , so I wrote a mass email to my own mathematics department asking if everyone could help me out . One of the other students in the department wrote back within a few weeks with an answer . I added a lot of other material , wrote the en
end question
start question
I 'd like to use a figure from a paper , what 's the best way to do this ?
Unless the paper is available under a very permissive license , such as <URL> , you will need to seek permission . ( There may be other legal possibilities , such as fair use or fair dealing , but that 's a little subtle . See <URL> for more information on that . ) The copyright owner is the person you need permission from . Who that is will generally be marked on the published paper ( often it is the publisher , and sometimes the author ) . If the publisher holds the copyright , then it is still polite to ask permission from the authors as well , although this is not legally required . Big commercial publishers will often have a department for dealing with this , typically with a name like " Permissions " . If you ca n't find such a department , then you can try just writing to the journal in question ( look at their web page to try to find e-mail addresses ) . If you are lucky , they will quickly approve your use of the figure . If you are not lucky , they will ask for money . And , finally , how does the answer vary for ( a ) those wishing to republish the figure in their own work , There are definitely legal issues here . ( b ) those not wishing to publish the figure e.g. for student coursework . If you never make the work available to the public , then it is hard to imagine that the copyright owner will ever learn about it or complain ( and they would look foolish if they tried to sue someone for using their figure in a homework assignment ) . However , you still have a moral obligation to cite the source of the figure .
what the speaker is seeking by giving such small talks ? One word : exposition . As a rule , the more senior a researcher gets , the less of her/his attention is devoted to writing single research papers . It becomes more central to be known for a specific niche , a specific topic where ( s ) he is the world 's foremost expert . One does not become such a figurehead for a specific niche by writing good papers in the area alone ( although , clearly , this is still required ) . One also needs to be an ambassador for the niche . This includes giving keynotes at conferences , as well as giving seminars and colloquia . Also , who can give such talks Everybody who gets invited by somebody . However , typically , one does not give keynote-level talks before senior postdoc or assistant professor level , simply because most PhD students do not have all too much of a vision going beyond their thesis yet . And , frankly , the keynotes of most postdocs also suck . Like most skills in academia , giving good exposition talks is also a skill that comes with training . ( there are exceptions , of course - I can think of at least one outstanding PhD student in software engineering who was regularly invited to give keynote talks at conferences midway through her dissertation )
The <URL> with using Wikipedia for academic research are that it 's a tertiary source , and there 's no credibility/quality assurance . So , you should make sure that If the image contains intellectual content that requires citation , you should cite a primary source for that content . The image ( including its factual/intellectual content ) meets academic standards of quality and accuracy . Assuming these are satisfied , reusing images from Wikimedia ( or a similar source ) is not inherently unprofessional . Of course , if the image is of poor quality or does n't fit in well with your poster , it will look unprofessional - but this would also be true if you had created the image yourself . This is , of course , assuming that the image you are using is in Wikimedia commons ( <URL> ) , and you follow the <URL> ( protects against legal/copyright problems ) you correctly attribute the source ( protects against ethical/plagiarism concerns )
If a graphic clearly gets across the message then why not use it ? Just check what the regulations specify though , To elaborate a bit more you need to think about what the introduction is for . If it is intended as an executive summary then a diagram that summarises the work could be very effective . If however it is setting the context of the work then I find it difficult to see how a diagram would help .
There is n't anything wrong with submitting to a conference that might not be a perfect fit . I would urge you to ensure that the fit is decent enough that you wo n't be wasting anyone 's time , but cross-polination can be great for both fields . When I was a graduate student and was helping my advisor review papers for a prominent conference , I read an outstanding paper that I did n't believe was on-topic for the conference , and I suggested to my advisor that it should be rejected it even though it had a novel ( and cool ) contribution . When I discussed it with her , she said that for really excellent papers , program committees will sometimes be flexible . If I was convinced it was that good , she said , I should give it a positive review and let the committee sort it out . In the end they accepted the paper . It was very well-received at the conference , and the authors were excited to get the paper into the competitive conference , where it would undoubtedly be seen by a lot of people .
A list of figures allows one to find the figures contained in a book . This could be useful , for example , when you want to quickly find one of the figures you recall seeing in the book , but you ca n't remember which page it is on . You could also use the list of figures when buying the book to see whether it has lots of figures or only a few .
I do not view it as generally unethical to refer to these solutions . This situation is more complex than I think some other answers have admitted . Here is a list of claims : In an ideal world , the point of homework is for the student to learn the material . In a perfectly ideal world , we would not need to grade homework , because students would do it on their own to master the material . They might refer to other people 's solutions to see if theirs are correct , and that would be fine . Experience shows this world is not perfect . Students will often skip ungraded homework , and their learning and exam grades will suffer . So instructors assign homework for a grade . But this is n't because the grade is really important : it 's because we want the students to do the homework and learn the material ! Some students then get the idea that the grade is the real goal of the homework , and simply copy their assignment from others . Professors often find this unacceptable . One important point that others have answered is that , if you are going to turn in the homework , what you turn in should reflect your own understanding of the assignment . But , equally importantly , it is important to let yourself struggle with problems for a while before looking up the answer . That is the only way to really learn how to solve problems . Most professors accept that the internet exists - we know you can look up other people 's answers . It used to be that fraternities had giant files of old homework and exam answers for this purpose ( maybe they still do ) . And students study in groups all the time - research shows study groups can dramatically increase learning . So getting help is not a bad thing . But you do n't want to get help too quickly . Make a genuine effort to answer the problems yourself first . If you find that you are looking up the answers to all the problems ( even the easiest ones ) , then something is off - try going for more tutoring , or studying more before doing the homework . If you find that you occasionally need to look up one of the most difficult problems , that 's perfectly normal ( but it still would n't excuse directly copying the solution into your homework , of course ) . Of course , the usual caveats apply : some professors may specifically tell you not to collaborate with anyone or use any other resources . But most professors know that students usually collaborate with each other on homework ( e.g. study groups ) and know that students can look up answers using other resources . We have no problem with that , as long as each student 's submission reflects their own understanding in the end .
A method which I learned quite recently is the <URL> . I think it is a great method , as it is quick , and it does not require much effort both on your part and your students . You will need to distribute three small pieces of paper ( e.g. Post-it ) to each student , ask them to label Start , Stop , and Continue , respectively , on the top of each paper , and then ask them to list on each paper , according to the label , what they think you should start doing , stop doing , and continue doing . Ask them to submit their papers before they leave .
It does n't really matter that the author gave you " unrestricted rights to use any portion of their article " without the need of citing it . We , the readers , want to know that you 're using it . Because I have all the rights to do this , would this be considered plagiarism ? Yes .
I think of requests for revision as falling into three basic categories , sorted in order of importance : New technical results ( e.g. , additional experiments , more theorems ) Large-scale text improvement ( e.g. , reorganizing text , dealing with pervasive language issues ) Localized text improvement ( e.g. , improving explanations , adding references ) Of these , only a request for new results should be of concern as a possible road to rejection : for the other two , if you want the paper published , if one cares to one can typically always put in sufficient work to address reviewer comments . It may be hard , unpleasant , and unrewarding ( depending on the particulars ) , but this is an area where any request for revision almost always has a clear path to publication , and of a stronger paper than you started with . Requests for new technical results , on the other hand , might or might not be something that you can not reasonable address . If you can address them , then it 's still a clear road to publication of a stronger paper . If you ca n't , however , then it 's a question of scope and may be worth discussing with the handling editor to see whether they are a sine qua non for publication . In general , however , my feeling about requests for revision , even major revision , is that they 're generally good news . Once a paper hits at least a major revision , it 's highly likely to be eventually accepted if the authors just keep answering the requests for improvement , and will likely be the stronger for it . There are exceptions ( I just had one rejected by a journal for the rather unusual reason that " they only allow one revision , " ) , but in my experience these most frequently reflect an author who has chosen to fight the reviewers rather than to improve the paper .
I typically post my slides on my website as pdfs . On the title page of my slides , I have started adding a line that says something like " slides available on my preprint page " , and sometimes I 'll mention this at the start of my talk . On my website , I have a page for all my slides and I also link to the relevant slides on my preprints page . Personally , I prefer when speakers make their slides available as pdfs , because I like being able to download them and file them away , rather than needing to bookmark a website . Similar to my preprints , I 'm excited to have folks download my slides ( so I do n't see any reason to control their distribution ) .
I think you are the person who would be invited out to lunch , dinner etc. as you are the guest ! However , there is nothing wrong with inviting your opposite number to talk in an informal setting . The only consideration is that you know the lay of the land ! Depending on how many days you would be spending at the US university , you might want to make a strategy on conversations and prospective collaborations . I am assuming you would have results to show and tell and with a punchline at that . That generally helps .
The criticism is that you 're not up to date on the current state of your own field of specialty , and it is not a light matter . If the " reviewer " is some sort of committee member that can throw a wrench into your exit process , you should address the criticism . The real issue is how to address it . My assumption here is that your defense will be " typical " , with a formal presentation followed by some sort of closed session . You have a very limited amount of time before your defense , and you need to use it wisely . To start , I 'd pick the five most relevant citations to your work that you have , and search them forward to see who cited them , and read those papers -- there will probably be less than 20 . If nothing earth-shattering has happened , you will eventually add those to your reference list , and all should be good . If there is something earth shattering and pertinent to your work , you probably have more research to do at this point . How will your reviewer know you did it ? Well , for the closed session , you should have a slide in your rack entitled " review of recent literature " . In closed session , make the opportunity to say " in review , a criticism of how up to date my knowledge of the field was came up . This was accurate , and this is how I 've responded ... I think I 've covered this , and will continue to stay up to date with the literature " . To add , they may require a bit of a rewrite -- that 's actually fairly common -- but worry about that when the time comes . The strategy is to to convince them that you 've done the work , and you 're ready to do that rewrite . You do n't have the time to do it between now and your defense , and my experience is that the document is largely sealed until it 's defended anyway . You 're trying to set things up so your revised dissertation will be signed off on without a thorough going-through .
It is certainly acceptable to not have references from your current institution , but it could raise questions , implying that something went wrong in the current position . Having trustworthy , high-quality researchers , as you 've indicated , can overcome this problem , though the question still will remain . Your references do not necessarily need to be familiar with all of your work , just enough of it , and more importantly , how you are as a researcher and person . Having a more recent reference letter would give a better description of how you are performing now , in particular , after you left the safety of a PhD position . That is , how you are performing now that you 've gone out into the world on your own . My inclination would be to include a local reference for these reasons .
How should you cite ? There is a format for citing web references for nearly any citation style . In the <URL> Last , First M. " Article Title . " Website Title . Website Publisher , Date Month Year Published . Web . Date Month Year Accessed . In <URL> Author , A. ( date ) . Title of document [ Format description ] . Retrieved from Website You may leave out the author field when it is not possible to retrace the original author ( as described <URL> ) When should you cite ? If you were to refer a material that has sufficient information to be given credit for your work , then by all means you ought to cite it . But first , try to find the roots of the idea , if such idea has been published elsewhere before this web-page was published . On-line content is highly susceptible to contain plagiarized content . See if you could locate the original source . If found , cite the original source instead .
There are different schools of thought about this ; how much information to include in a figure caption depends largely on personal taste . Proponents of minimalist figure captions put forth that It needs less space . It says in one brief sentence what the figure is about . Having a long block of text below a figure is ugly . In contrast , proponents of long figure captions state that People who ( if only at first reading ) only skim over the paper and just look at figures do not have to search in the text what each figure is about . The very points found within the figure are explained in depth in the caption . When looking at a figure in detail , readers do not have to switch forth and back between the descriptive text and the figure , as a concrete description is right below the figure . Personally , I consider the points in favour of an extensive figure caption more convincing , and I usually go for those as long as space restriction allow so . An additional benefit is that you can use the paper text for an abstract description of some aspect of your work , and then use the figure caption for an equally detailed , but more concrete description of the example shown in the figure . This way , you improve comprehensibility of your paper without making it seem redundant or repetitive - as a certain degree of overlap ( or even exact repetition ) between text body and figure captions is acceptable .
After I finished my undergraduate degree I wanted to thank those professors who were the most influential to me and my studies over the past years . In particular , those who wrote all my graduate school letters of recommendations and took the time to help me through the process . I thought about getting them a gift , but felt it was inappropriate . What I ended up doing was typing a letter to them which thanked them for all they did to me and provided a specific example in which they were influential to me that helped steer me in the direction I was going . I then mailed it to the department so they received it unexpectedly . All of them emailed me to thank me for the nice letter and that it was their pleasure . This would be a really nice thing to do that is n't flattering and full of praise , but what you actually got from them that was beneficial . Hope this helps :)
It depends on how the figure is being used . If it is for non-commercial purposes -- e.g. , in a scientific journal to support a study -- then it will likely fall under the ' fair use ' provision . If it is for commercial purposes , such as a book that you are seeking to publish , then it is likely considered commercial purposes , and you will need to work out the permissions . <URL>
How about writing something like : " My masters thesis advisor , Prof. X , has encouraged me to apply for this summer school " . No doubt you can adapt this to suit your particular circumstances .
I think : if I inform the professor right after I am aware of the decision , then I may hurt his/her feeling , because he/she was for me ; if I inform him/her later , then the same concern takes place and I can not justify why I procrastinated letting him/her know it . You should n't worry about this at all : Faculty members generally are n't particularly emotionally invested in these decisions . For the students involved , they feel ( and in fact are ) incredibly weighty , but faculty members are involved in dozens of cases per year , so they get some good news and some bad news and it all averages out emotionally . Even if this professor is unusually emotionally invested in the outcome , delaying reporting the result wo n't make it better . They might end up feeling unhappy with the unfairness of life or the poor decision-making skills of whoever turned down your application , but they wo n't be upset with or disappointed in you , so there 's no reason to worry or delay . I 'd recommend just letting your letter writers know when you find out , without stressing out about when or how you tell them . You could just forward the rejection e-mail with a brief note ( such as the " Many thanks for your support ; unfortunately I did not succeed . " suggested by iayork ) .
end question
start question
Should I put my papers which are not written in English on my social-media profile ?
Yes , it is . English is a lingua franca , but that does n't mean that all scholarly literature must be in English . Make sure your paper is in a institutional or disciplinary repository , if you like the idea of your paper to be open access . Translate it , as Davidmh suggests , to make it even more available . Regarding indexing in Google Scholar , that depends by the site you archive your paper into . You can make <URL> , but in my experience even if you suggest resources to GS you can not be sure you 'll be .
In my alma mater , this is indeed common . The student representatives actually maintain a repository of exam answers and assignment solutions for all large classes . Contributing to such a repository seems better than putting it online on your own web page or GitHub , because you need to think about how the students coming after you actually find your material . As for other implications : the only thing that I can think of is that lecturers are sometimes not all that happy about this practice , as it makes re-using assignments from previous years more difficult . However , that 's not actually that big of a deal , as most lecturers will assume that the solutions to re-used assignments are somewhere out there anyway , and adapt grading respectively .
The rules of thumb are : Established facts are reported in the present tense ( " The path of light follows Fermat 's principle of least time " ) . However , you should use the past tense when you refer to previous work in the field ( " Maxwell et al. demonstrated clearly in a laser cavity experiment that no mirror is perfect " ) . The experiments , simulations or calculations you performed are narrated in the past tense ( " We dissolved the remaining solid in a 5:1 solution of acetone and benzonitrile , and heated to 200  C for three hours . " ) Discussion of the data presented in the paper uses the present tense ( " The results obtained , shown in Fig. 3 , clearly emphasize that the cell colonies grew faster on pink toothbrushes than green ones . We attribute this to the color-sensitivity , or kawai factor . " ) Mathematical proofs are written using the present tense , because going through the proof occurs at the time of reading ( " From Eqn . 1 , we derive the following system of inequalities " ) . Overall , the choice of tenses is actually pretty logical .
This seems like a strange situation , since it is very counterproductive for both you and your supervisor . If this is indeed common in your group , I am sure several ideas have been scooped by the time they finally get submitted . Unfortunately , I really do n't have any decent idea why your supervisor would act this way . The most important thing to do is to talk to your supervisor and do n't let him/her dismiss the issue . This may seem like an aggressive approach , but you can disguise it as a learning experience , e.g. " Please tell me what is wrong with the current manuscript because I believe it is ready for submission , oh wise one " . Whatever you do , remain polite . A few approaches you can try ( all of which are reasonable , so do n't be shy ) : Send reminders and send them often . Ask what you can do to improve the manuscript . If your supervisor has no further suggestions to change the manuscript , ask where you can submit it to directly . Do n't wait for him/her to wake up . This approach may lead to your supervisor turning it into a ping-pong match , asking you to make trivial but time-consuming extensions again and again . In this case , confront your supervisor and explain your perspective . If you can find an appropriate call for papers , ask permission to send the manuscript there . Calls typically have deadlines and are not necessarily a downgrade in terms of venue quality . This includes conferences and journal special issues . Having a hard deadline might help .
I agree that it makes sense to set expectations as early as possible . I 'd just put Note that all XXX for this course are in English . in the syllabus . You should of course be specific as to what XXX is : Class slides Required reading Supplemental reading Lectures ( you could have slides in English but speak the local language during the actual lecture ) Quizzes Exams If quizzes/exams are in English , you should also note whether students would be expected to answer in English . Whether or not you also want to include the reasons for this is really up to how much space you have in the syllabus and whether there is n't anything more important to put there . I 'd say that a warning might be a better use for the space : If your English is not up to reading/understanding/writing technical documents , this course likely is not a good fit for you .
I have heard stories about some ( mostly weak ) young mathematicians include the names of some people ( influential enough ) to facilitate the acceptance of their papers or to help them for employment , grants , etc. . In fact , two years ago , an almost innocent case of this was going to happen to me . In Iran , most departments of mathematics have this ( written or non-written ) rule that a master or a PhD student should have at least one paper with his/her supervisor , otherwise she can not graduate or she misses some points from her thesis grade . I had a master student and she wanted to get the highest grade and therefore she asked me if I allow her to write a weak paper and include my name as a co-author of the paper . I deny it and she missed 1 ( out of 20 ) from her thesis grade . Of course , to compensate the 1 point unfair reduction , I defended her and asked the jury to not reduce any more points from her grade .
In terms of status-enhancement or proof of merit , the actual giving of the talk is of almost no consequence . The invitation is the thing that " proves " status and merit ( such as they may be ) . So , yes , list it , all the more considering that you probably do n't have many such episodes to put on your CV . For that matter , if you yourself had some ( unfortunate , presumably ) reason to cancel from your end , still , you did get the invitation . From their end , to cancel your talk after issuing the invitation would be a fairly severe gaucherie ... so I 'd bet it wo n't happen . Even if it did , almost-surely the official reason would be some funding problems , not that they 've discovered that you 're a poseur and a bad person , etc. . So the status and virtue leading to the original invitation are not diminished . Being invited to give presentations is a kind of proof of one 's relevance to the research community . There are rumors of " an internet " , supposedly allowing easy , massive , long-distance asynchronous communication without the expenses and perils of long-distance personal travel , but until that possibility is assimilated into the academic community ... much like the notion that " publication " could mean literal publication , rather than running a status-and-merit gauntlet ... :) Joking ( ??? ) aside , it 's not the literal giving of the talk , and is not the literal publication in refereed journal , that confer status or prove merit , but the invitation ( resp . acceptance ) .
I do n't think you should claim that you have an MS in progress until you are actually admitted to the program and have ( or some has on your behalf ) started paying tuition for that program and not just the classes required for your actual admission . You 're not in the program until you satisfy the conditions .
By ' Professional Affiliations ' it is meant that one is a member of certain professional association such as <URL> , <URL> , <URL> <URL> etc. . These professional bodies often arranges conferences which anyone can attend , so registering for the conferences does not mean that one is a member of a organizing body . Conference participation information may be put into your publication list as conference papers and/or given talks section . So , You should only list the organisations as professional affiliations of which you are a member .
I do n't think a " definitive " answer is possible , but the following is based on personal experience and observation of many other students . If your advisor is okay with it , take as many courses as you can in things that interest you and are in the realm of your discipline . As an applied math grad student , one of the best things I did was to take a graduate course in optimization from the CS department , even though I thought it had nothing to do with my thesis ( in numerical discretization of PDEs ) . It ended up being crucial and allowing me to publish at least one paper that I never would have written if I had n't taken that course . I also took courses in things like astrophysics , quantum mechanics , and turbulence ; I do n't use those things much but I can converse with scientists in those fields , which is often useful . Of course , I did n't take , say , philosophy or Italian or business management courses -- stick to courses related to your field . And make sure that whoever is paying you is okay with it .
The reason he might be asking to see your thesis is to get familiar with what you did , and to evaluate the quality of your work . If all the application materials ( your CV etc ) have English titles , he might not realize that the thesis is in any other language . So , I would respond to him addressing what he needs , and not what he asked for literally . I would write an extended abstract ( summary ) of your thesis in English . I would send the following , the extended abstract , conference paper , and thesis . He can gain insight into all of your work from the thesis abstract you just wrote . Your conference paper evaluates your writing . And finally your thesis is sent just because maybe he understands the language . Even if he does n't speak the language , the references , figures , tables , formulas etc. in the thesis should give him additional information about the content and quality of your work , especially in the context of your abstract .
Do not send too many emails -- this will undoubtedly annoy a professor who is possibly on vacation somewhere when they return to see 10 + emails from the same undergraduate ( ? ) . As to your second point , that is absolutely a no . Why are you even asking professors with whom you are not close enough that they do not even think that your major is related ? I feel like you may have more major problems , but I would not send more than a couple of emails at this time . If anything , the fall semester will begin soon and you can approach any professors in person to ask for a letter .
I ca n't speak for all disciplines but in biomedical science this is generally considered an inefficient way of writing because the same sentence can be simplified to My reason ( s ) of shifting to biology from physics is ( are ) ... It 's also considered tacky but I probably have to attribute that to overuse and misuse . I will only use hypophora if the statement is highly unusual or seemingly illogical . This is a bad use because the statement is not dramatic : To make tea I first need to bring the water to boiling . Why ? Because ... Contrasting to : To make tea I first need to bring the water to boiling with a silver spoon in the kettle . Why ? Because ... is probably synchronizing better with the readers ' mental rhythm : " Huh ? Why the heck would you put a silver spoon in it ? " Then the following " Why ? " would serve a better role : to resonate with the readers . Surely enough in my own field nothing is dramatic enough for me to deploy this expression . Is " shifting from physics to biology " unusual enough to raise eyebrows ? I am not sure without too much context . My gut sense is perhaps not because I 'd categorize them both under the school of science and they do go together quite well . I 'd think " shifting to biology after spending 10 years studying physics " or " shifting to biology from classical string performance study " may probably deserve a " Why ? " Although , this is purely opinion . The part after the " Because ... " deserves attention as well . Make sure it 's followed by a very compelling reason , or your " Why ? " may be tainted with a taste of self-doubting or still-on-a-soul-searching instead of persuasion . In any case , expressions like such are unlikely very harmful if used sparingly . They also serve to inject some liveliness into the statement . I 'd consider using no more than once in a statement acceptable .
No ! Unless you uploaded a copy of your submitted paper to public preprint server like PeerJ Preprints , ArXiv or BioRxiv . If you uploaded a public preprint you can add that to your ORCID profile . Extra note : About your published works , as you know , you can add your publications from any publisher to your ORCID profile ( after you sign-in to your ORCID account ) by clicking on " Add Works " . More information is given here : <URL> I 'd recommend the CrossRef Metadata Search as often the easiest method of importing one 's publications , provided those publications have a registered DOI .
In my mind , this will depend on how much you contributed to the grant , and what stage of your career you 're in . I 'll also ignore things like the NSF or NIH requiring reporting research support even if you are n't the PI for biosketches and the like . If you 're a graduate student or ( depending on the grant ) a postdoc , it 's reasonable that you would n't be the PI , because you ca n't be the PI by institutional rules , or because in the current funding climate , or with the scope of the grant , etc. there 's just no way a postdoc-PI grant is going to get funded . Never the less , putting it on your CV shows that you 're thinking about funding and participating in the process , even if you are n't heading it up . It 's the grants equivalent of being a middle author on a paper as an undergrad . What 's important though is , as with every element of your CV , that you be able to cogently talk about what it was about , and how you contributed to the writing of it . It 's one thing to say " My supervisor was the PI , but I did the bulk of the writing and planned out the grant " and something else entirely if you were just along for the ride .
I do not generally see people highlighting their name in a CV in this way , and I do not think that it is necessary ( though perhaps the culture in experimental physics is different ) . In a CV , you are by definition an author of every listed paper , and papers where you are first author leap out pretty easily to the eye already -- unless you 've got lots of papers , in which case , why worry about it ? If you highlight your name , on the other hand , I think that it could come across as insecure , since it is not normally done .
First of all : note that there is a difference between an academic CV and a resume . An academic CV typically lists everything you 've done related to academia ; every talk , every conference paper , every award , every grant , every mentored postdoc , grad , and possibly undergrad . A resume is a two-page document that summarizes your work/academic experience . ( Terminology may differ , some may refer to the first as a resume also ; semantics aside , there is a distinction between the two documents . ) That being said , the answer to your question depends on which document you want to complete . The first should have everything , no matter how old . The second should list your most important , more recent accomplishments , in the interest of space . Regarding the second , the answer to " when should I remove stuff " is simply " whenever you have newer and better things to put in it 's place " .
Yes , this is a problem . You should not submit the same work to more than one journal at a time . This applies regardless of language - merely being in a different language does not make the actual work unique . Further , consider some practical considerations - a simultaneous submission means that you 'll have to go through peer-review for both papers and ( assuming you do n't get caught and summarily rejected ) presumably have to make some changes . What if the changes do n't align ? Now you do n't have two translations of the same paper , but two subtly different papers in two languages . If you 're genuinely interested in making your paper more accessible , either post a translation online , or wait until one paper is accepted and then approach a journal in the other language about posting a translation .
I do n't think there 's any good way to include these papers on your CV . It 's not conventional to list anyone else 's papers on your CV , so by default everyone will assume you are one of the authors of each paper you list . If you are n't exceptionally clear , so clear that nobody could possibly misunderstand even if they are just skimming and not reading carefully , then you could easily upset people and give the impression that you are misleadingly inflating your publication record . I think you could probably write it clearly enough ( e.g. , a section called " Papers in which I am acknowledged but not an author " or something equally explicit , in a substantially different location in the CV from your own papers ) . However , drawing too much attention to this unconventional choice would itself be a problem . You want the most attention-getting part of your CV to be your own accomplishments . If readers get distracted by something strange , then it will work against the primary purpose of the CV . These papers would count for almost nothing on your CV anyway , so I see no purpose to including them . In fact , including something like this could look bad , by suggested a desperation to list as much as possible , regardless of how meaningful or important it was . The one case I can think of in which it might be a good idea is a student applying to grad school , with no publications yet but with acknowledgments in a paper or two . Then highlighting these contributions would at least be better than saying nothing . ( But it 's not worth it if you are an author on other papers . ) As I was finishing this answer , I noticed the comment that no mention is made of this contribution in the acknowledgments . In this case , the CV is absolutely the wrong place to deal with this issue , since it does n't give an opportunity to clarify . Intentionally omitting someone who carried out experiments from the acknowledgments is unethical , and doing is accidentally is a serious oversight , but your CV is not a good place to accuse someone of poor ethics or sloppiness . ( Without an explanation , nobody would have any idea what to make of this section of your CV . )
I seriously doubt the translated version you 've shown would make any more sense to the reader and so would just leave them as is . If the distinctions in the various abbreviations are important , you may want to explain them by including them in a spelled out fashion and mentioning that the abbreviation used comes from the original language . But the reality is , it sounds like the people reading your paper will be familiar with the laws of both countries , and so such information may be entirely superfluous .
end question
start question
How to turn down an offer if you are n't sure where you 're going yet ?
Regretfully , I am declining your offer . Thank you very much for considering me for your program . Best regards , ThatGuy You do n't have to say where you 're going instead .
Short Answer Do n't be too picky at first , learn about others ' work ; try to come up with some problem < - > solution pairs ; and then you shall find your own path ; when writing them down . Longer Answer Fun Fact : Publishable results are based on published results and some more . You need to do ' the some more ' part , and know the ' published results ' . So : 1 . High Rank Publications and their citations : Find the best publications in the area of your work , and see how they solve the problems and how the present their results and who they cited ; and read and learn them as well . 2 . Narrow Down More and More When Writing Down : Ok , now after reading some papers/journals/books , you want to write something . Here we do the following : 2.1 Problem and Solution ( Potential ) : You might ask what problem I want to work on ? Well the one you know how to solve ! I might go and write a code generator and say : " well , it is fast and ' efficient ' " . How do I know ? Well I do n't know ! I need to check it with others . So , we go to the next phase : 2.2 Evaluation and Background Checks : You start evaluation of your work by others ' approach ( and write about it ) . Must likely your approach is not good enough , so you go back to he first step and update this one . 2.3 Introduction and Evaluation Now you know what you are talking about , you write the introduction and conclusion about it . Then Boom ! you have a paper , that could be published . Find a conference/journal and hope for the best !
If you 're applying to a pure math program , then it 's unlikely that graduate admissions boards will be expecting courses in a particular outside discipline . If you 're doing applied math , however , it would be much more logical to expect to see some coursework in an outside discipline . However , economics may be suitable as an " outside " discipline if you 're taking advanced coursework with a mathematical bent to it . But overall , demonstrating that you are a strong candidate will make a much bigger impact than the specific training you have . Research experience , a strong statement of purpose , and great letters of recommendation will increase your chances of admission much more than if your " off-subject " courses are in economics or physics .
When you cite any source , you should give enough that the reader can , at least in principle , read that source for themselves . This information is especially important when you cite something as a source for further information , as it is in your example paper . This paper presents the framework of such a complete phenomenological model _ outlined by Sayeedvafa ( 2002 ) that provides a description of a wide range of the observed behavior , which are both tractable from analytical as well as computational viewpoint . For example , citations of technical reports ( like your first example ) should uniquely identify both the institution and the report , so that the reader knows who and how to ask for a copy . In particular , if the report is available on the web at a stable location , the citation should include a stable URL . If a source is likely to be inaccessible to most readers ( like your second example ) , you should also cite an accessible secondary source that describes the relevant content in detail . ( If you really want to be helpful , the primary source citation should include a pointer like " Cited in [ xxx ] . " ) Otherwise , you 're just asking for the reader 's blind trust that the source has the missing details you claim , or proves the result that you claim , or is as important as you claim , or even exists at all .
Keep it short and honest . For example , Dear So and So , thank you for your offer for a postdoc at Blah . It 's an attractive offer , but I 've decided to take a position at Foo-Bar instead . The work you 're doing over at Blah is very interesting and I look forward to interacting with you in the future . Of course if you have more than one rejection to send out PLEASE PLEASE do n't do it generically . Tailor it to each place individually . It takes a little more time , but it 's a fair exchange given that they took the time to give you an offer .
Learn how to say NO . It is very easy to say yes to every PC invitation , every paper collaboration , every committee , every this and every that . But this spreads your time too thin and means that you perform far less than optimally at everything you do . Ultimately , work encroaches too much on family time , and life becomes less enjoyable . Also , learn how to teach properly . Take a teaching course or two . It will make your job easier and increase the amount you enjoy teaching . See also : <URL> . Many of my comments there are applicable .
Do n't write results you do n't have . Neither in the present , past or future tense . Just do n't do it . Yet , I agree with you that there are circumstances where you do need to write an abstract on on-going work . For example , many big conferences in my field now ask for abstracts to be submitted up to 10 months in advance of the conference itself ! If you are a post-doc staying on a 12-month project , you want to present something but you might not yet know how things will turn out . So , two techniques I propose : Just write about the methodology , and present your goals in a general way , without " predicting " particular results but insisting on the importance of the topic . That is , emphasize strongly your points # 1 and # 2 , and then describe point # 3 as you would your " results " . Things like : In this particular study , we compare the efficiency of methods A and B on given subsets of a reference database . We use a large number of different criteria for measuring efficiency , including ... , ... and ... We also discuss in detail the implementation of subprocess X in method B , because its has not been specifically optimized in the existing literature . I know it sounds vague , but that 's the best you can achieve honestly , without pretending to know what you expect to find . Bait and switch : if you have existing results in a closely related study , you can incorporate them as part of your results . Mix this approach with above , so that you have at least a few specific results to list in your point # 4 . Then , when you will make your presentation , just present your new results alongside the old ( some people would remove completely the old results , but that makes it too much of a " bait and switch " for my taste ) . It is , after all , quite common for people to include newer results in orals/posters that they obtained after the original submission . It is not frowned upon , as long as you keep a decent agreement between the original abstract and the final content .
You can call it a " preprint " if it is ready to circulate , or say that it is " in preparation " if you are working on it but it 's not done yet . ( The difference is whether you would be willing to give interested people a copy now , or whether you would ask them to wait until it 's done . ) Do n't call it " submitted " if that 's not actually true , even if you think it will be submitted by the time anyone sees the reference . Getting caught in even a minor lie can hurt your reputation for honesty , and there are any number of ways something could go wrong in the process of finishing and submitting the paper .
This may not directly answers you question but I found it useful when applied to grad schools in the past . <URL> results shows different applications results for institutes . Applicants usually put their GRE scores and GPA along with the decision . Most importantly , some applicants communicate with their school and write something really useful as a note ( like # of application received/accepted/rejected ) .
Here is one rule of thumb : You should be sufficiently confident with the topic to be able to guide your student to success . This means in particular that you should know the topic in which the student is supposed to work in well enough such that : You are certain that the workload is manageable in the time outlined by the examination regulations . You know that there is enough low hanging fruit in the topic such that it is clear that even a mediocre student should be able to write a thesis that is good enough for the standards of your field and school . There are some types of results that a student may obtain during the thesis work that would suffice for the student to write a great thesis , possibly leading to a subsequent publication ( given interest by the student ) . You think that you can advise the student with the problems that you expect to occur in the scope of the project . You have sufficient time to actually advise the student and in particular have the time to read into the details of the subject in case the student needs some guidance on them . Depending on the field , it is debatable whether it is OK to hand out topics of which the advisor has comparably little knowledge , given that all requirements from the list above are fulfilled . Also , the list above focuses on the minimum requirements . Again , it is debatable whether satisfying all points on the list is enough already ( unless I forgot something important ) . As far as coming up with new thesis topics is concerned : probably everyone has their own approach for this . One way is to collect the ideas that you have in your own research into idea lists , and after some time filtering them by the criteria above .
I would use some of the following : submitted under review submitted to ... and do not stress that there is already a revision going on . Even revised papers may get rejected , so being in revision is no guarantee to get the paper published . I also would not state the journal to which the paper is submitted to because I do not see how this says anything about the quality of the paper . If you think , that the paper is good and interesting for whoever reads the CV , make it available as a preprint and provide a link . I myself have a section " Preprints " in my CV where I list submitted but not published papers with links to the arXiv and add the line " submitted , month , year " .
I think what you know and how strong your recommendation letters are the most important factors during the application process . Usually people need to take several foundamental courses to have a solid background before conducting research in math . And you also need to have some undergraduate research experience . So a degree in math is the most efficient way to get this . But it can also be achieved even though you do n't have a degree in math . My undergraduate degree is business administration but I have taken around 20 math courses including 10 analysis courses and several algebra and geometry courses during my undergraduate study . Currently I am going to start a research master program in pde and applied analysis and I hope I can do research in math in the future . So yes , you can . But you need to make extra effort to fill up the gaps .
Yes , you made a mistake , because " last name " means surname or family name ( sobrenome in Portuguese or apellido in Spanish ) . It is NOT the last of your names . So your question now is how to fix it . Have they answered your email yet ? If not , call them . You can also call your testing center and ask if they 'll allow you to take the test . If they say they are OK and understand that you made a mistake , then you have more time to fix the problem . If not , you need to fix it before your test date . If they do allow you to take the test before you fix the problem and you still have issues with ETS ( and can not fix your name ) , then you 'll need to contact the universities you are applying to , and make sure they are aware of the problem and are able to find your test grades once ETS reports them to the University . I know of people from Spanish-speaking countries that have registered for the GRE using only their first surname and have had no issues during the test taking or the reporting of the grades . However , your problem is different because you are using the last of your surnames , and unless in your country that surname is considered your " main " surname , they may not let you take the test . For the case of the people I know , in their countries the first surname is considered your " main " surname , so using the first or both of their surnames works , but using their last surname would probably have raised questions at the testing center .
Giving such a short job talk is a negative rather than a positive . Generally the point of a job talk is to engage and impress the audience with ( i ) your research and ( ii ) you as a potential research colleague . They want to hear a narrative that starts from a place they know and builds up to some impressive results , ideally that they would like to hear more about over the coming months and years . If other candidates are " filling the space with good content " and you come up 33 % ( or whatever ) short , then you risk creating the impression that you do n't have 60 minutes worth of good things to tell them . That 's just an impression though . People who care will look back through your dossier , so you need n't worry too much about that . Moreover , usually there are only a small number of candidates brought in for job talks and interviews , and a talk / interview has to be really bad indeed in order for those who were supporting you ( in the current job market , getting interviewed is certainly a very strong show of support ) to change their mind . Ending very short does n't seem to qualify in my opinion : people who are not in your favor may point out that your talk was short , while those in your favor will think " So what ? S/he 's still a good candidate ... " You should n't be thinking in terms of having killed your chances for a job but rather of having not fully exploited the opportunity you 've been given . Based on what you write I will guess that you are not very experienced giving 60 minute talks . ( And in fact that 's how you 're going to look more than anything : inexperienced at giving such talks . ) That 's something that 's easy to improve upon : practice more at giving such talks . Nowadays most people use powerpoint/beamer , which makes it pretty easy to control the pace . For something like a job talk , you should have at least one " dress rehearsal , " i.e. , a practice talk in front of real , live people who will stop to ask you questions . If you did that and still came up that short , there 's something to figure out : did you get so nervous that you skipped a lot of material ? If so , you can compensate by making more slides . Let me end with an anecdote . When I was on the job market , I gave one talk much earlier than the rest : it was from my perspective before the semester even started . For this and various other reasons I did not have a " dress rehearsal . " I had the opposite problem : I had way too many slides ( I mean actual slides , printed onto clear plastic and put on an overheard projector ; this was 11 years ago ) and I ended up plunking down slides full of dense text and then skipping most of the text . I went on to give three more versions of the same talk at other places , all of which were much more polished . Where did this shaky job talk take place ? At my current institution . They hired me anyway , though I heard that one of my colleagues was motivated to look back at my teaching letters for reassurance .
Of course they have value . If the journal or conference is not widely known in the country of the person reading the CV , then that person might find it hard to tell how much value to place on the publication . But you have two options : either you leave the publication off your CV and you 're guaranteed to get no value from it , or you put it on your CV and get at least some value from it .
There is more here than style : the first and third options mean something quite different from the fourth and fifth . In the former cases , what you are asserting is that someone else argued for X . In the latter cases , you are asserting X and using the citation as evidence/support/proof . ( That I ca n't quite tell where the second one fits into this dichotomy is a strike against it . ) In an academic paper , that is a not so subtle difference . I find the style question less critical . It is a matter of general good writing rather than anything specifically academic or it is specific to the journal at hand ( so we need not discuss it here ) . Of course you can use an author 's name as a subject of a sentence : you can write what you want , you know ! As a matter of style , to my ear the first option sounds good , the second option sounds weird , and the third option sounds weaker and wordier than the first , but maybe the surrounding text gives you a good reason to write it that way . The difference between options 4 and 5 is just a difference in citation style . First that is very field dependent ; in my field ( mathematics ) , we would do 5 rather than 4 ; in much of the humanities it would be the other way around . Second , unless your choice is so so strange that it prevents your readers from finding the references in your bibliography , the whole issue can probably wait until your paper gets accepted , in which case they 'll either do it for you , tell you exactly what to do , or tell you that you did it wrong ( and ask you to fix it ) .
Yes , it is possible to cross over between different fields following the PhD-level studies . However , in general , this tends to be more applicable to " interdisciplinary " fields that can fall into multiple disciplines . For instance , the engineering department I studied at hired people with PhD 's in applied mathematics and physics , because their research fields -- in fluid mechanics and interfacial science , respectively -- meshed well with the research interests of the department . To give a counterexample , however , it will be much harder to make the case for a high-energy physics person to move into another discipline , just because it is so strongly identified with physics . Thus , if you have a PhD in a field such as mathematical economics or econometrics , it will be a lot easier to make the lateral shift . However , if you 're in a more " traditional " subfield , that move becomes much more challenging .
First , I think you are worrying too much . Second , I think it is bad form on the part of the authors . If the material on the website is critical for the paper , it needs to be provided in an archival form that the journal can keep track of . I would evaluate it based on what you have been given .
Start immediately , accept as late as possible when you are happy . If another offer comes in while you are negotiating , that 's fine . You can work on negotiating that , too . You may even have to tell the first school that you are negotiating with the second school and vice versa . There 's no point in delaying the negotiations , just the acceptance . Of course , as soon as you accept an offer ( and it 's confirmed ) , you should immediately withdraw all other pending applications .
I am aware of no University that automatically does anything . That said , most Universities , have policies in place to protect their reputation . At Cambridge , both <URL> and <URL> have almost identical policies which makes me think there is an underlying university policy that I can not easily find . To quote Griton 's policy : Additionally , the University has a number of sanctions for behaviour impinging on the image of the University , while the most serious breaches , including all criminal behaviour , will be referred to the local police . Basically , Universities should be reporting any criminal activity to the local authorities . They also have the right to follow their own policies , of which expulsion is a possibility . Universities like to protect their images ( e.g. , the recent sex offence scandals in the US ) . So what the University will do may depend on if the victim of the crime was another student and how vocal the sides are .
end question
start question
Can images with a " noncommercial use only " licence be used in teaching and academic presentations ?
I 'd bet it 's probably fine , but there 's no way to get a definitive answer without asking the copyright holder ( this is one of the weaknesses with the noncommercial Creative Commons licenses ) . The Creative Commons definition of commercial use is use that is <URL> . Most teaching and conference talks seem pretty clearly noncommercial to me by this standard . But what if someone argues that you 're only doing that teaching to earn money ? Does the mere fact that you are using this material to help you do your paid job transform it into commercial use , or can you argue that in fact your use was not motivated primarily by earning money ? What if you 're getting paid an honorarium to give a talk - does that make it even more of a commercial activity ? You could end up in all sorts of debates about what the " primary intentions " are , with many borderline cases , and there 's no objective way to resolve the disagreement . The Creative Commons organization does not attempt to settle these issues , but does note that <URL> . There seems to be no official guidance as to what this is intended to cover . Maybe it is limited to cases such as selling teaching materials , or maybe it is much broader . In practice , I imagine most people using a noncommercial license would not object to these uses . There is a <URL> of what users have in mind when choosing such a license , which does n't directly address your issues but may shed light on them . However , it 's worth noting that people have in fact had nontrivial disputes over what constitutes noncommercial use , with at least one <URL> that disagrees with what I would have predicted . I ca n't really imagine anyone would sue you over ordinary teaching or conference talks . The worst plausible scenario is probably offending the copyright holder ( and being asked to remove the image ) , not getting sued . That could be a risk worth taking if you believe that these uses should be considered noncommercial . Of course I 'm not a lawyer or an expert in Creative Commons licenses , and I do n't know the real risks , so you should take this whole answer with a grain of salt .
I agree with Dave Clarke . I think the primary purpose of a bibliography should be to offer the reader a way to read the cited material . A version of the paper on the arXiv achieves this goal better than any other means I know . However , it 's also important that the cited material has been verified . By citing the journal version of the paper , the author communicates that it has been .
To write this in more detail , the text of the questions is clearly owned by the copyright holder . The ideas embodied in the questions are not protected by copyright . It 's usually considered plagiarism to completely rephrase and rewrite a question without citing the original source , but plagiarism generally is n't illegal . As noted in the downvoted answer , in some communities there is a broad acceptance of some kinds of copying when it comes to exercises , but I would n't want to endorse wholesale copying of homework exercises from one book to another . There are likely to be canonical problems that should be worked by every student in a particular discipline , and those would probably have the least claim to protection and the least interest in protection from the publisher . The more creativity going into the question , the more protection it has and the more enforcement you are likely to see . Writing good exercises is challenging , but you should endeavor to do so for your website . You should cite to sources when you adapt an exercise from somewhere , and you should mention that an exercise is a classical example that all students should be able to do when you draw on something that Gauss or Euler proved as an exercise centuries ago .
This may be subject-dependent , but my impression is that it is certainly not like that in mathematics ( my subject ) . I come from New Zealand and would probably like to return to live there eventually , but I 'm expecting to have to do at least one more postdoc ( I 'm already on my second , but my first was just one year ) before I have any chance of a permanent job there . ( And I do know people there who I think probably like me and , more importantly , are interested in my research . ) There are so few universities in New Zealand ( eight , but one is small and primarily agricultural , I think ) that there are by no means anywhere near enough academic jobs available to employ all New Zealanders with PhDs and postdocs from ' good ' universities . Still , I can imagine that if your student does indeed ' know people who like him ' in New Zealand , his chances may very well be better there than for US universities of comparable standard ( this is assuming that ' liking him ' partly includes being impressed with his academic work ) .
When I was an ( engineering , US ) undergrad , the textbook in one engineering mechanics class included problems using SI units and problems using imperial units . The problem sets for homework and exams came from the book , and could be in either SI or imperial units . ( You can see these examples in a <URL> ) . Every other class I 've taken as a physics and engineering student used SI units exclusively .
I think you are asking two slightly different questions at the same time : " Are TED speakers and their ideas credible ? ( as in " likely to be correct " ) " I 'd say yes , since TED 's process for inviting speakers is at least as strict as that of many scientific publications . Most TED speakers are invited to speak at TED because they 've become renowned scientists through their peer-reviewed publications . " Are TED talks scientific ( as in " usable to base your own science on " ) ? " Here the answer is definitely " no " , for the reasons you mentioned : they lack the information needed to be independently verifiable . Note that this does not mean that their content is wrong or unscientific ; it just means that the talks are incomplete from a scientific point of view , and thus not by themselves verifiable . But most TED presenters will previously have published the findings they present at TED in a regular peer-review scientific publication in a scientific format . The bottom line is : you should treat TED talks like you should treat Wikipedia : use it to quickly understand new and interesting concepts . But before you actually apply one of these concepts , verify them using scientific literature .
The link in your question lists many possible job opportunites of what applied mathematicians have . They all look exciting to me ( and possibly you ) and they are useful to human society . However , you probably will have some difficulties when you apply for those jobs . There are two things you do n't have yet : Math knowledge in depth ( you do n't have PhD in Math ) and domain knowledge ( you have no work experience ) . For example , How might disease spread in populated areas in the event of a bioterrorism incident , and how would it be contained ? . Do you have enough Virology background to devise algorithms to simulate this ? Do you have enough Math knowledge to solve the math problems behind the algorithms ? Another example , How can you allocate an investment among various financial instruments to meet a risk/reward trade-off ? . How much do you know about Finance ? How much do you know about quantitive finance mathematics ? You need to have at least one of them , either math in depth or domain expertise . Without either one of them , the best you can do is a research assistant or simply a programmer ( to implement the algorithms other scientists and mathematicians devise ) . My advice to you : either pursue a PhD in Applied Math or a masters degree in an area that suits your most interest .
Doing a little bit of poking around , I found most articles on BlackHat 2015 not listed in Google Scholar , and all of the articles that I did find listed were cited by other papers . It seems to me then likely that this is among the " grey area " sites that Google Scholar is not indexing ( BlackHat 's status as an academic conference is murky ) , and thus that any material that you find is being added to the Google Scholar index through other routes .
Although the term " PhD candidate " is used in both continents , a Ph.D program in the USA comprises of : Master ( 2 years ) + Doctorate ( 3 years ) , meaning it takes at least 5 years , whereas in Europe comprises of just the latter : Doctorate ( 3 years ) . This means that yes , a Master 's degree or something deemed equivalent or superior is required to enter the doctoral course in Europe . The fact that it 's " not required " in the US is an illusion , it 's just because the Master 's is ( sort of ) included IN the Ph. D program . In the end you will get your Ph. D degree at around the same age than students in Europe . If your University in the USA does not deliver a Master 's degree per se , you will have to check with the prospective university in Europe to see whether they will count your research experience ( preferably 1-2 years of lab research after your 4-year Bachelor 's , which you could sum up in something that looks like a Master 's thesis ) as being equivalent or superior to a Master 's degree . I believe it is case by case . Also , please keep in mind that some countries like France require you to have a scholarship or to secure some kind of funding prior to admission to cover your living expenses for the entirety of the Doctorate ( 3 years ) since Ph.D candidates have a status similar to paid staff . The UK is probably one of the only countries in the world where it 's OK to do just a Doctorate ( 3 years ) right after your Bachelor 's ( = if you compare to other countries , you could say it means skipping the 2 years of Master 's ) , however , I do n't think this is highly valued on the international market , unless you managed to end up with the same amount of work and publications than the people who did Master ( 2 years ) + Doctorate ( 3 years ) . / / Speaking for science majors / /
In the following , when talking about displaying a presentation with a certain aspect ratio on a projector with a certain aspect ratio , I always assume that the presentation 's aspect ratio is preserved and black bars are added at the appropriate sides . Never have the projector digitally warp your presentation : It destroys <URL>  and may make fine lines invisible . The best aspect ratio is the one of the very projector you are presenting on , as you can make best use of the space . In particular with projectors , you do not want any content to be unnecessarily downscaled as their resolution is very low to begin with and the projection area may be rather small ( and thus difficult to see for the audience ) . An okay 16:9 presentation may be rendered unreadably small , if displayed on a 4:3 projector . Now , depending on your presentation and how dynamical you program it , adapting to a different solution may be a rather simple thing with Beamer ( apparently in contrast to Powerpoint , going by the article you linked ) . I once changed a presentation of mine from 4:3 to 16:9 in about half an hour , and this included recompiling complex animations and a lot of perfectionism -- a " normal " presentation could be adapted much faster . If you do not want to adapt , the choice essentially depends on the average age and purpose of projectors in your conference venues ( I would guess that newer projectors or projectors mainly used for movies are rather 16:9 ) . Thus it depends on your field and probably also your continent . Anyway , most projectors I have encountered so far had a 4:3 resolution and most of those who had n't had a resolution very close to it . I 've only encountered a single 16:9 projector . I thus use 4:3 as the default .  To give you an idea , the following shows this sentence as natively rendered by my computer ( with hinting ) and the same text digitally stretched or squeezed : <URL>
For undergraduate studies , you do not need to have publishable papers . Hence , exploratory thesis it is fine if you understand and do all the calculations , and perhaps you can also explore implementations in numerical programs .
It sort of depends on what you want to timestamp , and who you want to convince with the data , but there 's some important points to keep in mind . If it 's a locally-kept repository , then it simply can not be used to establish any sort of priority , because those timestamps can be forged . Git is simply not robust enough ( depending as it does e.g. on your system clock ) to be a silver bullet ; it can be made part of a case ( analogously e.g. to timestamped lab books ) but it is not enough by itself . On the other hand , you can use a version-control repository hosted by a third party , such as a private repository on GitHub or Bitbucket . Here you need to make sure that you push regularly to the remote repo , because what really matters is the timestamp on the push and not the commit ( again , because the locally-generated timestamps can be forged ) ; you also need to make sure that the third party actually keeps timestamped logs of said uploads . This is in principle usable , but whether it will be sufficient or not will depend on what you want to do with it . Ultimately it will come down to whether the people you 're trying to convince can be persuaded to trust the third party 's logs and their neutrality . ( Note , also , that what matters here is not the robustness of git that matters - it is the reliability of the third party instead . ) Depending on your field and its community , having written the paper first may not actually matter - quite often , a lot more weight can be put ( rightly or wrongly ) on being the first to publish the work . There is a lot of field-to-field variability , but if someone else publishes work that is essentially equivalent to yours , then at the very least you should expect a steep uphill climb to get a journal to publish your manuscript , even if you can prove you had the text just about completed before the others even submitted . I will leave these discussions aside , though , under the assumption that you 've already thought through them or will do so before acting .
Short answer Yes , it is ethical Long answer The three options are : Proof-reading it yourself Asking a co-author ( for academic article ) or a 3rd person ( for theses ) to proof-read it Pay for a commercial proofreading service . As I see it : Option ( 1 ) is inefficient . You 've written the text , read it many times over , and your brain will simply fool you in not seeing the typo 's . Option ( 2 ) is done quite often in practice . In my opinion , it 's most suitable for journal articles ; some articles have quite a lot of co-authors , and one could give a section to each co-author and distribute the work . That 's what I usually do ( my thesis will be quite small , because it 's just a summary for a sandwich thesis ) . As for option ( 3 ) , I do n't see any ethical problems with paying for a proofreading service . I know a number of people ( they are not native speakers ) who do this systematically for theses and academic articles . They buy commercial services who check and correct the quality of their English writing . This improves the quality of the text and therefore reduces the chance to annoy the reviewers .
The answer is : The Design chapter is the idea and outline you had in the beginning of what you would like to create , with the various components you think you 'll use , and the Implementation chapter includes all the issues that cropped up along the way , creating the need to change the original design .
It can not be a research paper without a project . Research papers are for describing the results of the projects . Even review articles represent projects to collect the information about the current status in the particular branch of the science . Once you are a co-author , you have been involved into that project . Co-authorship always assumes significant enough involvement . Hope this answers your question .
I think this is a good question . Let me propose some guidelines : 1 ) A religious invocation should occur at the beginning of the talk or the end of the talk , but not in the middle of the talk . People often begin talks with material that is unrelated to the topic of the talk itself , e.g. thanks to various organizers ; comments about the weather , the venue or the town ; jokes ; and so forth . It seems to be clearly asking too much for someone to speak only about their scientific field during the entirety of their talk . However , at a certain point you get down to business and the " talk itself " in the narrower sense begins . One should not ( of course this is an opinion , but a strongly held and easily defensible one ) mix religion with the material of the talk itself . 2 ) A scientific talk is not an occasion for proselytization . To me whether religious material is appropriate depends a lot on the purpose one has in bringing it up . If you include religious material as an attempt to convert audience members to your religion , I think that is really problematic and unethical . If you include religious material for other promotional reasons , then I still have a problem with it , just as I would be with someone promoting their not wholly scientific company or product . ( Even wholly scientific promotion might not be so great , but that 's a different answer . ) On the other hand , it is a totally standard thing to have the last slide of a talk give thanks to various people and institutions . If you feel deeply grateful or thankful in the religious sense , then it seems natural to want to express those feelings , given that other speakers are thanking people and things ( e.g. the US government ) that , in your sincere opinion , have not helped you out as deeply or fundamentally . At any rate , it does not bother me if someone ends a talk by thanking some theological entity . 3 ) One should not express religious sentiments in a scientific talk in a way that encroaches on anyone else 's religious sentiments or lack thereof , nor which implicitly or explicitly invites or requires participation or complicity from the audience . Thus " Alhamdulillah " is probably okay ; " Now Thank We All Our God " is probably not . In general , in ( e.g. ! ) an academic context , one should be respectful of others ' beliefs and views , and one should not be controversial or exclusionary in anything without a specific intellectual purpose for doing so . One should also be respectful of others ' time and realize that speaking in front of a group is a privilege . On the other hand , academics are human beings and can choose to say things which are not strictly necessary . In my calculus class last week , I had students identify a quote about mathematics being someone 's worst subject followed by a careful and insightful consideration of the reasons for this . The quote turned out to be from Malcolm X . What calculus reason could I possibly have to quote Malcolm X ? None . But I thought it was interesting and perhaps important in its own way . I enjoy my freedom to do that , so it is not a hard sell for me to give leeway to those who want to make some kinds of religious statements , so long as they are in line with the above guidelines .
I think it depends in large part on what the research is . Some fields lend themselves more readily to real-life application , while others like , say , theoretical physics , are a long way from being used by industry . It also depends on the researcher . I am a firm believer in the " <URL> " principle ( disclosure : the man who wrote that is my advisor ) . The premise of the Last Research Mile is that a big part of doing research is taking it all the way through to implementation . Doing the early research provides a good start , but lots of important lessons , including research lessons , are learned as the idea is carried through to execution . I 'm studying in an Information Systems program , and so my research is in business , computers , and people . While it would be easy to do the basic research and move on to another topic , I think it is important to continue to push and test the idea even in its implementation phases . As a result of following the Last Research Mile principle , my advisor has created at least one company that sells the product of decades of his research . Many lessons were learned , and many publications resulted because of those lessons throughout the whole process .
I highly value humor and love to entertain whenever I can . In formal writing , I would encourage you to go ahead and write something that you think would be funny . Then reread it . Then reread it again . Read it aloud . Read it silently . Read it again tomorrow while you edit it . And read it again . And again . And again . Imagine reading it out loud to the people with the least sense of humor you know . Imagine reading it to a person with a furrowed brow , in a bad mood , who is trying to find anything they can to rip apart what you have laid down , to find a reason to cast it aside as useless junk . Then read it 10 more times , as any good writer must inevitably do . Now imagine reading it again in 10 years ( if you are lucky and what you 've done turns out to be of use ) . Personally , I have found that after the 20 + time I 've read something , it is n't even funny to me anymore - and I think I 'm hilarious ! But even the best jokes I 've ever told never landed 100 % of time , or to 100 % of the audience - and in formal writing I do n't even know who the audience is - they might speak my language as a 2nd ( or 3rd or 4th ) language . Being stubborn , I like to write humor into anything I make . But after the 20th read through I realize it just is n't funny any more , even to me - and if that 's how a reader would feel who does n't get or appreciate the joke , it just is n't worth it any more to me to include it . I 'm basically writing a technical instruction manual , and there 's a reason those things are n't really funny - you are supposed to read them and refer back to them repeatedly , and jokes get old fast . If I really like a joke , I 'll save it for when I can make it in person , in a talk or in a presentation , when I can personally hear the laughs ( or gauge the room and know to skip it entirely ) . Or I 'll be funny on a website like this so I can wallow in a mass of glorious unicorn points . But in formal writing like a thesis or important research paper ? Well , you decide after you 've read it for the 30th time if it is still worth inclusion , or if that emoticon makes you smile - or if you want to poke it in its tiny little semi-colon eye .
I would consider student comments in teaching statements as " standard optional " : they are not required , and probably the majority of teaching statements do not include them , but a substantial minority do and it is certainly quite reasonable to do so . Here are some things to keep in mind : Your teaching statement is your chance to convey your philosophy of teaching and , in so doing , show yourself to be a clear thinker , competent writer and to possess fluency in English ( assuming that you are applying to a job where English is spoken ) . Including too many quotes by other people in a short statement works against this . I am a wordy person , but for me I think a teaching statement should be at least two pages long . If you have a 1.5 page teaching statement and a third of it is quotes , then I worry that you 're using the quotes to evade the short essay you 've been asked to write . Succeeding in an academic job is a lot harder than succeeding in writing a two-page essay , so that does n't inspire my confidence . The positive side of the last comment is that it would be much better not to just include quotes in a pile at the end but rather to use them to illustrate points about your own teaching . Drawing an explicit moral from each quote would not be overdoing it . Including quotes in your own teaching statement is a bit like including quotes on the back of a book saying how good it is . These quotes can be part of a successful sales pitch , but let 's be real : they are cherry-picked . ( If you 're not cherry-picking the very best quotes , you 're losing ground to everyone else who is . In particular , think ten times before including a quote that has the slightest hint of negativity or even measured praise about your teaching . Saying something negative about yourself in application materials is a black belt level sacrifice throw . ) The idea that you fundamentally gain legitimacy from a teaching statement by including the students ' own words is a dubious one to the jaded eye . Most of the eyes reading your application will be highly jaded . Consider feeding the quotes ( especially if you have more than one or two ) to a faculty member who can put them in a teaching letter . It is harder to write good teaching letters than good teaching statements . Along with cold , hard statistics about your teaching ( but be careful about introducing negativity , as above ) , including quotes from students is a good way to personalize the letter . ( Saying that Ms. X is clear , attentive and well-liked by students only fills up so much space , and almost everyone else is saying it too . )
Yes , in , say , Economics , its encouraged . Having a strong background ( i.e. a masters in math or statistics ) is a bonus . That being said , it is expected that you are n't blind about the subject you going into your PhD for ( but that should be obvious ) .
end question
start question
How to address the person being recommended in a recommendation letter ?
I have seen both used in recommendation letters , regardless of the strength of the recommendation letter itself . I would , myself , recommend Dr. John Doe / Dr. Doe for most professional relationships , except when it is clear that you have formed a close professional relationship ( PhD student , or long-term collaborator or post-doc ) . In case you go for the surname , I would still use the full name at the first mention : Dr. John Doe was a student of mine at the University of X , where I teach Y , ... . He later joined my research group as a Masters , then PhD student . John is an extremely bright student , ... ( Of course , that 's merely an example and not a good letter wording , so do not look at the wording itself , only the use of names ... )
Having made more that 50 applications for Lecturer posts in the UK , I can share some of my statistics . Only 3 Universities of 50 asked for LoRs to be communicated through the applicant . The majority , 47 of 50 , asked for a list of references , and contact them asking for LoRs only if a candidate is shortlisted . In the U.S. the customs may differ .
As your question is referring to a " Priv.-Doz . Dr. " I guess you want to address a German person . Hence , I would like to add to the already existing answers . In general , I agree that when in doubt , simply be more formal and use the full title . However , at least in Germany you usually just use the highest title . Strictly speaking , only " Dr. " is a proper academic title in Germany ( i.e. Professor or Privatdozent are job titles ) . However , Professor is also seens as a title if addressing someone , due to the outstanding position coming with the title . So , if someone is a " Prof. Dr. Dr. X " , you just refer to him or her as " Prof. X " . Titles like " Priv.-Doz . " are usually not used , as these people normally also hold a doctoral degree , so you would address them as " Dr. X " . Basically it boils down to : If someone is a professor , you use " Prof. X " If someone is not a professor , but holds a doctoral degree , you use " Dr. X " If neither of the above applies , you use " Mr/Mrs X "
Is this a cultural difference between continental European and British/American system I can not surely speak for all continental Europe , not even for a small portion of it and not for all fields , but speaking with a few European colleagues of mine , it appears that the expectations that we have on recommendation letters are completely different from the typical US expectations . In particular : We mostly consider recommendation letters as a mean to discriminate between those that are not able to provide any recommendation letter and those that can provide at least a couple . That is , we expect most of the people not to be able to get one ( in a distant past , I would n't have considered one who just attended one or two classes with me eligible for a recommendation letter ) . We do n't expect recommendation letters to be more than one page long , and half a page is ok ( you just have to tell me that you had worked with this person and that they are not that bad ) . We do n't expect the recommendation letters to be sent directly from the reference to the application board . We consider the writing of recommendation letters as a favour to the applicant , and not as a duty of our profession . Actually , all the recommendation letters I wrote but one were handed directly to the student ( or former student ) . For the exception , I 've received a direct request from a university to submit the recommendation through their online system : the uploading procedure , with questions to answer too , was such a hassle that I 've decided that in the future I will probably decline any request for recommendation letters to be uploaded anywhere . To answer your main question : Should I ask the professors to write and hand me recommendation letters directly , or should I try to communicate with the university and let the professors email them the letter/give me a physical letter sealed within an envelop , which I will send to the university by mail later on ? I understand your reasons , but I 'd consider this an odd thing to do . I 'd simply ask the student to provide the recommendation letters . In case the professors were reluctant to hand the letters directly to the student , I 'd write an email explaining the different traditions .
Although I 'm not a professor , my position has a lot of similarity and I have often been asked to write recommendation letters . My reaction has been a mixture , depending on who is asking for me to write the letter : Students who I like and respect : " Sure , I 'll be happy to . What are the aspects of your work that you 'd most like to have emphasized ? " Students who I have n't got a strong opinion on : " I 'm not sure that I know your work well enough to write a strong letter . If you really need me to , I can , but I think you 'd be better served by getting somebody who knows you better . " Students who I have been disappointed in : " I 'm sorry , but I do n't think that I would be a good person to write the type of letter that you need . " You only want letters from the first type , who will happily sing your praises . And for a student like that , it 's no burden at all : I 'm going to want to push your career forward , because I 'm hoping I 'll get to see somebody who I like prosper , and maybe even return to work with me as a colleague in the future . As for the multiple letters question : do n't worry about it unless you 're applying to like 20 schools . If the programs you 're applying to are similar , they 're probably just going to be writing just one template letter about their experiences and filling in a couple of blanks to customize for the institution . Now certain institutions have terrible forms that will make it a pain to send that letter , but that 's hardly your fault , and your recommender will be used to it ...
As per the comments on your question , I think this is really context specific and the role of an author can vary quite subtly from area to area . I 'll try give a general answer to the general question first , and then look at the specfics of your case afterwards . How to handle not being credited for research software development in papers ? The first question is whether or not you should be credited for the software you developed in the paper . The answer is predicated on what precisely the contribution of the paper is and what the contribution of the software is . If , for example , ( part of ) the core contribution of the paper is describing optimisations and techniques that you invented and applied in the software , then I think it is more than fair that you should be credited as a co-author . If , for example , the core contribution relates to a methodology for doing X where your software was specifically designed for that methodology , then you should probably be credited as a co-author or , at the very least , mentioned in the acknowledgements . If the core contribution of the paper is not directly related to the software itself but the software is used to some ends , then you should probably not be credited on the paper ( otherwise Linus Torvalds would have millions of publications ) . But if the software system was described in another paper and played a significant/specialised role in the current paper , you could expect a citation . Since the publications would n't be possible without the systems I developed would I have any remit to ask for credit and/or authorship ? I think your reasoning is a little flawed here . Making a research paper possible does not entitle you to co-authorship ( as a simple counter-example , if paper A builds upon the results of paper B such that paper A would not be possible without paper B , the authors of paper B should not expect co-authorship on paper A ) . Providing part of the core contribution of the paper -- the reason why it was accepted in the first place -- entitles you to co-authorship . I noticed something crucial in your comments that you did n't clarify in your question : " Since xxxx our system has collated data on x cases and found that . . " The authors should absolutely not be claiming credit for a system they did not design or build . This is clearly wrong . ( And it also indirectly suggests that part of the contribution is indeed the system and the authors are trying to claim credit for it . ) Since you know the authors , you should talk with them , show them the relevant quotes in the papers and tell them that you are not happy with them claiming the system as their own . Tell them that if they wish to continue claiming the system in future then you should be a co-author on the paper . If you wish to escalate , you can contact the editor ( s ) of the journal ( s ) involved and tell them your story . The editor ( s ) might agree to let you publish a letter referring to the specific paper and outlining your case . This should be considered the " nuclear " option . EDIT : Not in answer to the question , but this quote in the transcript of Hamming 's address " <URL> " ( well worth a read for anyone in research ) reminded me of this question : I also did a second thing . When I loaned what little programming power we had to help in the early days of computing , I said , " We are not getting the recognition for our programmers that they deserve . When you publish a paper you will thank that programmer or you are n't getting any more help from me . That programmer is going to be thanked by name ; she 's worked hard . " I waited a couple of years . I then went through a year of BSTJ articles and counted what fraction thanked some programmer . I took it into the boss and said , " That 's the central role computing is playing in Bell Labs ; if the BSTJ is important , that 's how important computing is . " He had to give in .
In academia , the most crucial aspect of your application are your qualifications . However , extracurricular activities can give your job application a personal note , and make you stand out from the crowd of applicants with similar qualifications . Stating your hobbies ( e.g. hiking , or playing the guitar at a decent skill level ) will give the person who screens the applications a bit of an image of you as a person , instead of just ticking off the requirements . Especially for scholarship applications this can be helpful , since many organisations do n't only look at qualifications , but also at the person that they will support over the next years .
I write letters all the time for students I 've taught , but whom I have n't seen for a long period . I do ask for specific information : Tell me what the deadline is ! Include your student number . Remind me which of my classes you have taken , and when . How did you distinguish yourself in those classes ? How would you describe yourself ? What are your strengths ? What are your weaknesses ? I am going to have to answer those questions when I write your reference , so the more details the better . I have to have personal knowledge of anything I write , so remind me of those things I may have forgotten . What are some of your academic and nonacademic accomplishments that I may not know about ? Tell why you 're particularly qualified for the job , educational program , or award you 're applying for . What makes me particularly qualified to write a letter for you ? That is , why should the recipient of the letter value it over a letter from someone else ? Include a copy of your application essay . Put that stuff together , write the professor a note saying , " As the deadline of [ whenever it is ] is approaching , I thought the following material might help you . Thank you again for agreeing to write a recommendation . " The professor who has that material to hand can complete a letter in a much shorter time than if it all had to be looked up and remembered . People ( that would be me ) tend to do the easy things before the hard things . Make this one an easy thing !
When I look at an application there are four aspects that count : grades cover letter earlier written work ( BS/MS thesis ) Recommendation letters Out of these , I focus most of my attention on the latter two : if the thesis is well-written , has received a good grade , and the letters of recommendation support the candidate in terms of ability to do research ( from reading up on the field to writing everything up ) and independence ( how much ( or little ) support the candidate needed . The cover letter would not make the application , but could break it if it is unfocussed and does not show any skills in expressing the interest in a structured way while avoiding irrelevant information . The grades would , in most cases , be the least interesting since they primarily show one 's ability to read and understand , not necessarily reasoning and deduction . The exception is the grade for the thesis . So , to answer the question , I am not sure which might be more important but anything that supports your ability to do research is of prime interest to anyone evaluating an application . EDIT : To follow up on Gerrit 's suggestion , my personal ranking list would be ( in falling order ) : Earlier written work Recommendation letters Cover letter Grades ( although the grade on the written work is included in 1 ) But , all parts are useful and in the end some mix of all will be used . I would also add that 1 and 2 will " make " the application while 3 and 4 will mainly help to " break " the application .
Something along the lines that you persisted and managed to graduate despite that the life as you know it was being destroyed in a war-torn county . The hardships of war , hunger , constant fear for safety ( or whatever you feel like sharing ) gave priority to the survival . As the result your grades in the final years suffered . You are eager to continue your education in the safety of whereever you are applying , and ready to give it your all without the distractions of the war . The point you want to make is that you graduated during the whole crisis , which is truly impressive . Congratulations on that . It shows the character and persistence . Grades you can fix .
I have seen both used in recommendation letters , regardless of the strength of the recommendation letter itself . I would , myself , recommend Dr. John Doe / Dr. Doe for most professional relationships , except when it is clear that you have formed a close professional relationship ( PhD student , or long-term collaborator or post-doc ) . In case you go for the surname , I would still use the full name at the first mention : Dr. John Doe was a student of mine at the University of X , where I teach Y , ... . He later joined my research group as a Masters , then PhD student . John is an extremely bright student , ... ( Of course , that 's merely an example and not a good letter wording , so do not look at the wording itself , only the use of names ... )
Recommendation letters are all about trust : why should the person reading the recommendation letter believe the person who is writing it , when they say that they should place trust in you ? Thus , all else being equal , a professor with better qualifications provides a stronger recommendation . Other considerations , however , can be more important , as it all boils down to the basic question of trust . For example : A little-known professor who knows you well and has worked together with you is a better recommender than a world-famous professor who can only say : " This student was one of 100 who got a good grade in my giant class this year . " A professor with a close colleague in the department where you are applying may be much more trusted in their recommendation than a world-famous professor who nobody in the department knows personally . Furthermore , you probably will have more than one letter writer , and diversity in your letter-writers can be a virtue : some more prominent , others more in depth , etc. . Thus , you really need to look at this as a whole package , and say : " What is the combination of people who will , as a collective , present the most favorable and trustworthy picture of me to the particular places where I am applying ? "
In-person requests are always the best route , because you can gauge willingness and eagerness to write the letters much more directly than via telephone or email . However , if you ca n't be there , because you 've moved away , then it is of course appropriate to ask for letters by email . Whether or not the professor will grant the request or not is of course a question . However , I would mention that you 've moved ( and where you currently are ) as part of your request , so that the professor knows why you 're not able to come in for a meeting if asked .
The point of a letter of recommendation is for the receiving party to obtain third-party verification that you are , indeed , awesome . Generally speaking , people like to receive letters from individuals who know you well professionally . In most cases , teachers can not write good letters , as they only know you as a face in the class , and never really got to know your work ethic , personality , and capabilities . A research advisor would be able to comment on all those things , and would be able to write a much stronger letter .
Be honest and be yourself . Students will latch on to your discomfort and will use it as an excuse for their performance . I have found that if you are honest with them with a statement along the lines of " I am new to teaching , so please be patient while I work out my teaching style and get more comfortable . If you have any concerns about how class is going , please speak to me as soon as possible . " they are much more forgiving of your mistakes which you are bound to make . There is nothing worse than students who feel they can not pass the class due to your teaching , so allowing them to voice their opinions early can both help in your teaching ( i.e. , " You stand in front of the board too often . " or " It would be more helpful if you spent a little more time going over X. " ) and in your students attitudes towards you . But be careful on this front , make no instantaneous decisions . I always will say something like " I will think about it and get back to you next class if the policy X needs to change . " Always get back to them about it , even if it is a no . Additionally , talk to other grad students and faculty if you are finding you are having problems with teaching . I would be surprised if your department or university had people did not staffed just for training of instructors for teaching duties . Talk to them and voice your nervousness , they are there to help . Even think about all your classes and what the professor did that you hated or liked and try to emulate the best attributes as best you can . But do n't try to be these people , just be yourself . The key here is talk to everyone , do your best , and be yourself . Since you 're just starting out , I do n't believe that they would throw you in cold into a classroom and say " teach " without any forewarning or even knowledge of which class , but they might depending on where you are ( and talk to other people about what to do quickly if possible ) . You will probably start out grading and/or doing recitations/review sections a few times a week until you are more capable/comfortable with maintain your own class . Good luck in teaching and studies ! I always think being able to explain what you know to other people is a true sign that you know it yourself . Addendum : The books that earthling suggested will always help . If you are in mathematics , I also suggest <URL> by Steven G. Krantz . Even though it is written for those teaching math , it is also a good read for almost any new instructor , particularly in the sciences .
In the US in math my understanding is : For the NSF fellowship follows the rules to a T. For other postdocs there 's probably no harm in submitting an extra letter , but there 's also rarely a compelling reason to do so . For tenure track positions it is common , and not frowned upon , to submit 4 or 5 research letters instead of the requested 3 research letters . If you have a compelling reason to submit more ( for example , you work between two adjacent fields ) then go ahead , but if you do n't have a compelling reason you 're also not going to be penalized for sticking with 3 research letters . It 's better to have all the letters be great than to have more letters . There 's a lot of discussion about this in the comments on <URL> .
It 's better to put what is on the copyright page of the book in question . If you do n't have it , then you may have to punt , but wherever you can use the full reference , you should . Edited to add : The goal in a citation is to allow your reader to find the exact work that you used , so you need to be as precise as you can . If there are different editions , etc , they may have different publication locations , so make sure you described the physical volume you have precisely . If you do n't have the physical version , then be sure to give your reader 50 years from now the ability , as best you can , to track it down .
While the formal title is Dr. des. , there are good reasons to simply use the form of address you would use to a " final " doctor : the title is only temporary , and the person will eventually have the title or Dr. ; moreover , PhD candidates having freshly attained their goal will probably enjoy you using it . For those who wonder what Dr. des . is , it 's a <URL> , like US presidents are " president elect " : Following a successful defence , the title of Doctor designatus ( Dr. des . ) may be used until the doctoral degree is gained .
Contact the professors now ! There 's no reason to wait . You can just tell them you are interested in having them write letters for you , if they are willing ; they can at least start thinking about what to write . Then as soon as you have decided which schools to apply to , send them the details on how to submit the letters and the deadlines . I would say this should be a bare minimum of 2 weeks before the deadline , preferably much sooner . After that , do n't hesitate to remind them periodically of the deadline , until they tell you the letters have been submitted .
No . Although the person listed for further information might be on the search committee , they certainly wo n't be the only member of the committee . Furthermore , the person listed for further information might not even be on the committee .
end question
