start question
Do I need to book a taxi before arriving at Paris La Défense ?
La Défense is predominantly a business area , although it does attract a fairly large number of tourists due to many of the buildings in the area , as well as the fact that it 's the end of the Metro line . Ease of finding a taxi will depend on the time of day and day of week . In general you should not have any issues , however there 's likely times of the week when you may have some trouble , such as early in the day , especially on a weekend . Thankfully there 's an easy solution . Very close to the Defense station are two hotels - the Sofitel next to the Metro station , and the Renaissance a very short walk away . Both of these should have taxis available most of the day , or will be able to arrange one for you if they do n't . ( Ironically on my first ever trip to France I was headed to the Renaissance and my taxi driver got lost finding it ! I think we drove around the " loop " 3 or 4 times before he finally managed to find the right exit ! )
It depends . I 've entered it several times . Inevitably I 'm asked about my travel plans , and I explain my trip . Sometimes they 've asked how and when I 'm leaving Canada . Only on two occasions have they asked to see evidence of said trip . But they have asked , and have the right to ask . In addition , many airlines will refuse to carry you to a country ( eg Canada ) if you do n't have an exit ticket as well . Simple solution if you do n't have one yet - buy a refundable plane ticket , or a megabus/greyhound ticket from Vancouver to Seattle or Toronto to Buffalo .
You need to carry with you proof of your stay ( and your return ) , and that you 'll have enough funds to cover your trip ; as you may get asked for it . For example , the immigration officer might ask for : Your return ticket . Where you are staying ? How long do you plan on staying ? How you plan on supporting yourself ? What is the purpose of your trip ? Keep in mind that a visa is not a guarantee of entry , just permission to go knock on the door . So be prepared with documents that support your intended purpose of stay .
No for both countries : Peru : With a few exceptions ( notably some Asian , African and communist countries ) , visas are not required for travelers entering Peru . Tourists are permitted a 30 - to 90-day stay , which is stamped into their passports and onto a tourist card , called a Tarjeta Andina de Migración ( Andean Immigration Card ) , that you must return upon leaving the country . The actual length of stay is determined by the immigration officer at the point of entry . Read more : <URL> Bolivia : Citizens of most South American and Western European countries can get a tourist card on entry for stays up to 90 days , depending on the nationality . Read more : <URL> I had no problem getting 90 days each on the borders .
As noted in a comment , the agreement mentioned in that news article has not yet gone into effect . In fact there are several outstanding changes to Turkish visas which are pending but not yet active . There will be changes to quite a few countries ' visas that go into effect on February 1st of 2012 . That would be the earliest date I would expect the Nigerian agreement to be effective , but I do n't know that it 's scheduled for then and kind of doubt it will . In short , at the moment he still needs a visa . No confirmation is available as to when the agreement with Nigeria will take effect .
From <URL> : Switzerland is not part of the European Union and the currency is the Swiss franc ( or Franken or franco , depending in which language area you are ) , divided into 100 centimes , Rappen or centesimi . However , many places - such as supermarkets , restaurants , sightseeings ' box offices , hotels and the railways or ticket machines - accept Euro and will give you change in Swiss Francs or in Euro if they have it in cash . A check or a price-label contain prices both in francs and in Euro . Usually in such cases the exchange-rate comply with official exchange-rate , but if it differs you will be notified in advance . Changing some money to Swiss Francs ( CHF ) is essential . Money can be exchanged at all train stations and most banks throughout the country . Switzerland is more cash-oriented than most other European countries . It is not unusual to see bills being paid by cash , even Fr 200 and Fr 1000 notes . Some establishments ( but fewer than before ) do not accept credit cards so check first . When doing credit card payments , carefully review the information printed on the receipt ( details on this can be found in the " Stay Safe " section below ) . All ATMs accept foreign cards , getting cash should not be a problem . As they mention , there are ATMs everywhere , which is what I did when I went - I simply drew cash on arrival . I do this in all my travels - it 's convenient , and only ' failed ' in Buenos Aires where one of the airport ATMs was down , and in Uzbekistan ( Khiva ) where only one bank in town could let you draw money from my card type , and there were no ATMs .
Yes , you can go to Istanbul with your ID card . Generally speaking , Kris is right , you do need a valid passport , even for countries for which you do n't need a visa . But in this case , you can in fact enter Turkey with your national ID ( see <URL> and <URL> mentioned by Geeo ) . This possibility is only offered to citizens from a few countries ( not the whole EU ) but it 's the case for Italian citizens . Citizens from an even smaller list of countries can also enter with an expired passport but that 's not the case for Italy .
From what others have said , you do n't need one at all . <URL> , usually reliable on this , just says that people rent cars . <URL> states that even for the Hana highway , a 4x4 is not required . And a <URL> even states that : Unlike Big Island ( or Kauai ) , Maui roads are generally good and you absolutely do n't need the power of a 4WD to access any point of interest . Conclusion : Without a 4x4 , you 'll still be able to access any point of interest .
It 's sometimes difficult to find the right information but everything is somewhere <URL> . Wikipedia <URL> . Some embassies or government websites from the various Schengen countries also provide useful summaries . Legally , the main source for all this is the <URL> . Here is a step-by-step guide through the rules to decide if you need a visa : 1 . Can you enter the Schengen area ? If you can enter the Schengen area , you can also transit there . You can enter the Schengen area if you are an EU citizen , hold a Schengen visa , a long-stay visa or residence permit from one of the Schengen countries or come from a country whose citizens do n't need a visa to visit the Schengen area . If any of these apply , you can stop here , you do n't need a visa . If none of these apply , read further . The list of countries whose citizens do n't need a visa to enter the Schengen area can be found on <URL> . They are also colored green on <URL> . 2 . Can you transfer without leaving the international area of the airport ? Many airports in Europe have an international area with transfer/check-in counters , waiting area , sometimes lounges , restaurants , shops <URL> before the border checkpoint where the police check the passports of passengers entering the Schengen area . Gates for non-Schengen destinations can be accessed from this area , whereas domestic and Schengen-bound flights depart from other parts of the airport . Whether you can transit without leaving this area will depend on your specific connection ( airport/terminal , airline , time ) . For example , <URL> , so that it 's not possible to remain in the international area for an overnight transfer . Luggage belts are typically after the passport check so if your luggage can not be checked through to a destination outside of the Schengen area , you will also have a problem . Finally , as passengers ' passports do n't have to be checked on flights within the Schengen area , if you have two stopovers in the Schengen area ( for example Mumbai-Vienna-Frankfurt-Chicago or Nairobi-Zurich-Frankfurt-Chișinău ) , you will have to leave the international area and go through the border checkpoint to catch your intra-Schengen flight . Same thing if you need to change airports . If you have to leave the international area to make your transfer , you can not transit without a visa and you need a full Schengen visa ( and not merely an " airport transit visa " ) . If you can stay in the international area ( " transit airside " ) , read further . 3 . Do citizens of your country require a visa to transit airside ? If you have come so far , it means you come from a country whose citizens require a visa to enter the Schengen area . But there is still a distinction between two categories of countries among them . While most people can transit airside without a visa , citizens of a smaller list of countries need an " airport transit visa " even if they do n't want to go through the border checkpoint and enter the Schengen area . Where things get complicated is that the list of countries whose citizens need an airport transit visa is slightly different from one Schengen country to the other . There is a list for the whole Schengen area ( <URL> , dark red/burgundy on the <URL> ) but individual Schengen member states can also add countries to the list . They have to inform the Commission , which keeps a list of all these requirements ( <URL> , see also the same Wikipedia article ) . If your country is not on either of these lists , stop here , you do n't need a visa . On the other hand , if your country is on one of the lists ( the general Europe-wide list or the one from the country where you are going to transit ) , you might need an " airport transit visa " but read further as there are some exceptions . 4 . Are there other rules that could allow you to transit without a visa ? If your transfer requires an airport transit visa , there might still be a way to transit without a visa as the Schengen Visa code provides for a number of exceptions for people who hold some other visas or residence permits . Note that those exceptions only apply to the airport transit visa requirement . If you need to enter the Schengen area ( see question 2 ) , these exceptions do not apply . Specifically , you are exempted from the airport transit visa requirement if you hold a valid visa from an EU country ( that 's the whole EU , not only the Schengen area so also Ireland , the UK , Cyprus , Bulgaria , Romania , and Croatia ) , Canada , Japan or the <URL> . You are also exempted if you have a residence permit from one of these countries or from Andorra or San Marino . If that 's your case , you are exempted even if you are not traveling to this country . If you hold such a visa or residence permit , you can transit without a visa , no matter your citizenship or your destination . If you do n't , you will need a visa . Furthermore , if you just used the visa ( so that it 's not valid anymore but expired recently ) , you can still transit without a visa in the Schengen area for the return trip . This rule does not fit
I do recall Paris metro tickets being available on the Eurostar and at the information desk in London , but that was a few years ago and may well no longer be true . The price is rather more expensive than if you get them in Paris . There generally is n't that much of a queue in Paris Nord , especially outside peak hour . This is one of Paris 's busiest stations and one Eurostar is n't that much of a load . Most travelers head for the most visible ticket selling machines , but there are many machines in different corners of the station . Head to the far end of the platform ( where the suburban services leave ; suburban ticket selling machines , such as the one pictured on <URL> , sell metro tickets as well ) . Or head downstairs into the metro/RER area , and spread out a little ; that 's often enough not to have to queue much if at all .
You can only pass through customs ( or immigration ) through designated ports of entry . This means that unless you have a special pass ( for example , ship crews have special passes ) , you need to go through the customs and immigration process . This is a burden on you as the traveler . It does not matter where you start the journey . Your status in the destination country/territory will depend on your current nationality . For example , if you are allowed to legally reside and visit a country without a visa , you will not be an illegal alien ( to prove this though , you 'll have to provide documentation - like a passport ) . However , there will still be issues with your departure as your arrival was not legal or documented . If questioned by police you will most likely be detained and deported for illegally entering the country . As for goods ( customs ) , it is more restrictive as each country has their own rules on what goods are allowed entry customs free , which goods need to be declared and which goods are forbidden . In either way the burden is on you to make sure your travel is legal and authorized even if you do n't need a visa to travel to the country ; or your port/manner of entry was not through the normal channels .
There 's no single answer to this , as different hotels have different policies . In general most hotels will be happy to store mail and small packages for you for a short time . Most will ask that you mark that fact you 're a guest as a part of the address , and I 've had at least 2 hotels that requested that my arrival date also be listed as a part of the address . Some hotels will charge you a fee for this service , especially if what you 're receiving is anything more than just a standard letter . Normally the item will be held for you at the front desk/concierge ( often with a note on your booking so that they know it 's there when you check-in ) , although at some hotels they will store it in the " Business Center " which can cause issues if you 're planning to arrive outside of the business centers hours . The best plan is to either email or call the hotel in advance to confirm their local policies - I 've never had a hotel not respond to such an email with the relevant details , plus you end up with a record of what they told you in case there 's any problems later on ( such as one hotel where I was told there was no charge , but then they tried to charge me when I got there ! )
Customs officers generally make a judgement call . They want to know that you will be in the country only temporarily , and that you will not try to work without a work permit . I often arrive in countries with no local cash at all , but I have a bank card where I can withdraw cash on arrival and that 's no problem . If you have no cash , no credit card , and no bank card , how will you eat ? Where will you sleep ? They begin to suspect there is something you are not telling them . On the other hand if you arrive with $ 10,000 in cash , that will draw attention for other reasons . They want everything you bring to make sense and match with everything you say . You 're not planning to work ? Then why have you brought your special tools that you use for being a welder or a hairdresser or a fashion photographer ? You 're just here to visit a friend ? Then why have you brought all the clothes you own , family photo albums , and a collection of " we 'll miss you ! " cards from friends and family ? How much money you have with you fits into that thought process as well . There is an aspect of unfairness to all this , because it 's not as simple as " bring $ X and you 're all set . " It is a judgment call . Laws say things like " enough money to meet your needs " but obviously different people have different needs , and different lengths of trips , and different support from friends and family . Nothing is ever cut and dried at borders . And then there 's even just the matter of whether they check . If you 're well dressed and are carrying credit and debit cards along with stuff that suggests tourism , you 'll be treated differently than if you look like a hippy and are carrying only one debit card and some pot smoking paraphernalia . Once you 're in secondary they can check your criminal record , search the contents of computers , call the people you 're visiting and so much more that they would never do at primary . And then they might conclude they do n't want to let you in . I 've watched many episodes of Border Security ( I watch <URL> , but there are versions all over the world ) and listening in on them discussing how much money someone has it 's clear there 's no obvious number you know you 're ok as long as you have . It 's an overall presentation : logically , does what you are saying make sense and hang together ? If not , and they decide you 're arriving to work then they wo n't let you in . If you 're wandering the world with no clear ties to some other place , they might decide you want to stay here without applying to do so , and then they wo n't let you in . Etc. . You want to make sure you get across to them the truth of your situation , and it had better make sense .
Going with a cruise line is an exception to the rule that you need a visa . Basically , Russia uses the visa requirement to control the inflow of visitors . But if you are with a cruise line that has ALREADY submitted to Russian controls , you are effectively " controlled . " The cruise line will only organize tours/excursions approved by the Russian government , using guides licensed by it . That , and not the " international accommodation " , is the reason for the waiver . When leaving the ship , you will need to show your passport and have it stamped at the custom house . They will then give you a pass that is valid only for that ONE excursion . Needless to say , you have to come back with the rest of the group , and not go out on your own . If you lose your pass , there is a fine . I believe it 's $ 50 . If you stay on board the ship the whole time , none of this applies . Then the " international accommodation " part holds . But if you go on your own ( not a ship sponsored tour ) , then you need a visa .
You can find information about train stations in France on the <URL> web site . The translation is somewhat haphazard . A left luggage facility is called a consigne ( consigne automatique for automated lockers , or consigne manuelle if there 's an attendant ) . In <URL> , there are both automated lockers ( acessible as long as the station is open , i.e. 4:30 -- 1:00 ) and a left luggage office ( open daily 6:15 -- 23:15 ) . They are on the underground level near the taxi rank , which means they 're very close to the exit from the Eurostar platforms . ( Paris Nord is n't very big anyway , once you 've walked to the front of the train which can be about 400m . )
Yes , but it 's a bit fiddly . If , when you are booking , you are either logged in with a BAEC Silver or Gold membership active ( BAEC silver and gold get seat selection for free at the time of booking ) , or you are doing a ( not logged in ) search for a fully flexible ticket ( full fare tickets get free seat selection at the time of booking ) , then almost at the end of the booking process before entering your credit card details , it lets you pick a seat : At that point , bring up the seat selection tool , and see how many seats are free on that flight . If not enough , go back and pick a different flight . If so , go back and pick the fare class you really wanted to book on . Expect to take a minute or two per flight you check , by the time you get to that bit of the booking ! Remember that this will only show if you 're doing a search when logged in as a BAEC Silver or Gold ( other BAEC tiers or other OneWorld status wo n't work during the booking process ) , or when doing a fully-flexible search when not logged in . Otherwise , some travel agents can look it up , and they can also look up how busy the flight is in a general sense ( how many tickets for sale in each cabin in each fare class ) . If you care , it might be easier to get a good travel agent , ring them up , have them look at the loadings then book you onto the flight with the loading / seats you 're after .
Since the 72 hour visa is only available to the EU countries , UK , Switzerland , and Japan . Which means that the rest of the people will have to enter under the regular tourist visa . There is also agreements being put in place regarding <URL> , so I would just apply for that and use it to enter both Kaliningrad and St. Petersburg . Or you could wait until <URL>
In short the answer is yes you do need a separate visa for Belarus . Your Russian Student Visa does n't allow you to enter Belarus . The reason that it has the names of both countries is because the form they use is exactly the same . From the <URL> : Although Russia and Belarus use the same migration card , travelers should be aware that each country maintains its own visa regime . U.S. citizens wishing to travel to both nations must apply for two separate visas . A traveler entering Russia directly from Belarus is not required to obtain a new migration card , but at his or her option may do so if blank ones are available at the time of entry .
My opinion is that a Paris Visite pass is hardly worth the money . If that 's true in your case is difficult to answer . Basically , you have to use the public transport quite heavily . The price of single metro ticket is 1.70 EUR and if you buy tickets by a batch of 10 ( " carnet " ) , the price goes down to 1.33 EUR per ticket . With that information in mind , take the Paris Visite pass you are interested in ( 1 , 2,3 or 5 days ) , and calculate how often you would be able to take the public transport on regular tickets , ot how many <URL> you would have to use . Example . A 2 day pass is 15.85 EUR . For a bit less than that , 15 EUR , you can buy 11 regular tickets ( 1 carnet and 1 single ticket ) . That 's a lot for two days , especially if you plan your sightseeing a bit rationally . And do n't let yourself fool by the discounts . Some are more sexy , some other are less sexy . Check precisely what the discounts are good for , check the prices . And check if you are interested in these at all ! Plan your sightseeing first , i.e. make a list of what your are interested in and see if that 's covered by the pass . Do n't do it the other way round . You might miss a lot !
I do n't see any problem at all at finding a cab at Navtlugi or wherever you want in Tbilisi . Just rise you hand on the road and any free car will stop near you . And also I am sure that plenty of cabs reside on the Navtlugi station . However , if you want to be super safe , you can call taxi by phone with following numbers : 2 717 717 291 14 14 2939 100 2535 535 2200 200 0322 10 50 50 2 201 201 2 30 88 88 2 377 877 2 939 939 247 77 44 293 91 00 291 14 14 274 74 74 2 27 26 26 551 999 244 571 999 244 230 03 01
end question
start question
As an American , can I apply for an Algerian visa in Morocco ?
According to the rules ( <URL> , in French ) , you have to be resident in the country where you apply . The key paragraph is the first : Les étrangers désireux de se rendre en Algérie doivent présenter à leur arrivée un passeport en cours de validité muni d’un visa d’entrée sur le territoire Algérien délivré par l’Ambassade ou le Consulat algérien du lieu de résidence habituel du demandeur . A l’exception des pays où les formalités de visa ne sont pas exigées ( voir liste des pays ) . Listes des pays non soumis aux formalités de visa : TUNISIE , MAROC , MAURITANIE , LYBIE , YÉMEN , MALI , MALAISIE , RASD , SEYCHELLES , SYRIE A rough , fairly liberal , translation is ( emphasis mine ) : Foreigners wishing to enter Algeria should present on arrival a valid passport affixed with an entry visa for Algeria , delivered by the Algerian Embassy or Consulate in their habitual place of residence . This is with the exception of countries with no visa required ( see list ) . List of countries : Tunisia , Morocco , Mauritania , Libya , Yemen , Mali , Malaysia , the SADR , the Seychelles and Syria So to answer your question , unless you are habitually resident in Morocco , you technically can not apply for an Algerian visa there .
No . You can not apply for a U.S. visa inside the U.S. . A U.S. visa is only for entering the U.S. , and can only be applied for while outside the U.S. Even if you had a visa , it does not mean " for sure that you will be able to come back " . A visa just permits you to apply for admission . It is always possible to be denied entry on a nonimmigrant visa .
Having done this now , I can say that the answer I 'd previously accepted ( Terminal 4 ) was incorrect . The flight I was on ( an American Airlines one ) landed at TBIT . It was fairly easy to " transfer " to Terminal 4 though - after re-dropping my bag , it was just a short walk outside - fairly obvious once you 've looked a terminal map .
Roundabouts are called ' traffic circles ' Traffic lights are called ' robots ' There are many more 4-way stop signs , including on major roads . Arrows painted on roads are used to indicate lane splitting into two rather than an upcoming intersection in the road . There are people in parking lots wearing fluorescent vests who " look after the cars " . They may be employed by the owner of the parking lot , but might just be hoping for a tip . You may see people leaving them a tip of some coins e.g. 1-2 rand . Watch for animals such as a baboons on the road . Trucks and slow vehicles may pull off onto the shoulder to allow you to overtake . They will sometimes signal that you should overtake by putting their right blinker on . A general rule : ' yield to traffic approaching from the right ' . City speedlimit : 60km/h Highway/freeway speedlimit : 120km/h Police use individual speed cameras , so your vehicle 's speed is measured once and if your speed is over the limit , you 'll get issued with a fine ( they do n't use the average speed over a certain distance as measured by two cameras placed some kilometres appart ) . The highways in the Gauteng province have ' etolls ' , measured by gantries across the highway , some people pay their toll bills , some people do n't . Drivers often do n't use their indicators when turning . Minibus taxis often stop at any spot along the road , without pulling off . Many larger vehicles ( trucks , buses ) are n't roadworthy ( brake lights and indicators not working , and no emission control on the exhaust fumes ) . Beware of pedestrians crossing the road at any spot they wish ( jaywalking is n't enforced ) . You may also find pedestrians and cyclists on the highway . No cycle lanes in the cities , they mostly ride on the shoulder of the road . Watch out for potholes and unmarked speed bumps . When the traffic lights are malfunctioning or are completely off ( this happens a lot ) , treat them as a 4-way stop , and make eye contact with other drivers to make sure they 're not going to skip the intersection without stopping . Always keep your windows closed and do n't interact with beggars or vendors at traffic lights . Keep your cellphone , wallet , purse out of sight ( do n't leave it on the passenger seat ) . Keep your vehicle doors locked at all times .
An Algerian national needs to apply for a visa in order to enter the UK , even if they have a French visa and even if they are taking the Eurostar . You will not be able to show the UKVI people your visa at the rail station , or even at the border . On the bright side , the application does n't take three months to process ; it 's more like a week . You can apply online at the <URL> . If you have a clean history and otherwise qualify , you will be able to access the various opportunities to upgrade your application to priority status . That will cost over and above the GBP 83 for the basic application fee . The downside is that since you are in France , you probably do not have all the requisite evidence to hand . It 's something to consider before applying . For your last question : no , the ' spur of the moment ' option is n't available to those travelling on an Algerian passport .
Less than a mile away is <URL> . Open till 10pm and $ 5 ( according to the link ) you should have time to collect again before they close at 10pm , since your function is scheduled to end at 8pm . However in view of the exceptional circumstances I suggest you give them a call first . If not , and not arriving by train so unable to use Amtrak 's Baggage Room , maybe drop your bag off at your hotel before checking-in . That may waste about an hour but alternatives may add delay anyway . Another possibility is to ask the dinner 's organisers -- not allowed into the dining area does not preclude some cloak-room facilities before that area .
I can not guarantee it will be work in every scenario , but at least in this case , I found an answer . It appears sometime after ticketing , the American Airlines number will work in the BA <URL> page , as suggested by IKeelYou - somewhat . I tried it again this morning and it gave me an error , stating that it could n't find the reservation , but pre-populated the reservation number box on the error page with a different reservation code . I tried this reservation code from the MMB page , and lo and behold - my reservation ! Seems like BA 's website needs some bug-fixing , but I do at least have access now .
The answer is indeed no ; no visa or ESTA of any kind needed for a visit of 90 days or less . Here 's what the <URL> has to say : ENTRY / EXIT REQUIREMENTS FOR U.S. CITIZENS : Austria is a party to the Schengen Agreement . As such , U.S. citizens may enter Austria for up to 90 days in any 180-day period for tourist or business purposes without a visa . The passport used should be valid at least for the period of the intended stay ( usually the date of the return flight ) . Anyone intending to stay longer than 90 days must obtain the appropriate visa issued by the Austrian Embassy in the United States . Specifically students attending a college/university in Austria should consult with the Austrian Embassy/Consulate before coming to Austria . Information for students is available from the Austrian agency for international mobility and cooperation in education , science and research ( OeAD ) . Also , technically one can only need an <URL> for the United States , as it 's related to the <URL> . Similar systems in other counties are called something else than " ESTA " .
The Mexican consulate in San Francisco says that you do not need a visa as long as you have valid and unexpired USA visa ( or permanent residence ) . Other nationalities , Non-US Permanent Residents . Starting May 1st , 2010 , all those foreign nationals , regardless of their nationality , visiting Mexico for tourist , business or transit matters wo n't need a Mexican visa as long as they have with them a valid and not expired USA visa in the passport . In this context , if you have a valid US visa in the passport you do not need to obtain a Mexican visa . The website is <URL> . Similar , but more clearly stated information is available on the Consulate of Mexico in India <URL> which says : : : NOTICE FOR HOLDERS OF USA VISA : : Holders of any valid visa for the United States of America ( any nationality ) DO NOT require visa to enter Mexico on tourist , business and transit purposes only .
I 'm answering my own question . 6 months ago , I accepted Prometheus 's answer , I really thanked him for searching information for me . But I removed the acceptance , because I afraid that people may get wrong information . The reason I want to apply a B2 visa for my wife , because J-2 is not reasonable for us . First , my internship was only 3 months , and my wife only intended to visit me for 1 month . However , if we applied for the J-2 visa , we would have to pay the insurance for 3 months for my wife . i.e. as long as my stay . And believe me , the insurance is extremely expensive . After searching for a while , I realized that spouse or under-21 children who intend to stay less than 6 months ( some pages say only 3 months ) in the US have the option to apply for a B visa . So I applied for a J-1 and my wife applied for a B2 . We arranged to have the appointment at the same time , but the US Embassy in London processed our applications separately . The funny thing was that : my J-1 visa was valid only for 5 months , but my wife 's visa is valid for 1 year . Moreover , she applied for a B2 visa , and they granted her a B1/B2 visa . However , note that a J-2 application is easier to be accepted than a B2 , since the dependent also has the sponsor from the host company etc. . We took a risk of applying B2 because my wife had travelled to the US alone several times before .
Quick answer - no , you will not require a transit Visa . Longer answer - a Schengen visa allows you to enter any country in the Schengen area . In your case you will use it to enter the Schengen area in Frankfurt . Once you 've entered Germany there is no passport control for flights to other Schengen countries , so you will NOT pass through immigration when going from Frankfurt to Milan . In effect , you can think of the Schengen area as a single " country " with multiple states . Your visa allows access to any part of the " country " - and then there is uncontrolled travel permitted between the states .
I 'd certainly submit that document . It might not be a government/airline , but it 's some evidence with your name on it indicating where and when you were . The suggested documents are useful because they 're common , accurate and hard to forge . They 're also often available . However , many people ( most ? ) do n't keep boarding passes , and in that case emails and bookings from hostels/hotels might suffice as well . It 's to provide reasonable indication - it 's not a court case ( yet ) and as such , providing what evidence you have , and a supplementary note if you feel it would help is always a good idea . In my experience , more information is better than gaps - gaps or missing info raises questions . If you have a document that answers those questions , that 's better for all involved .
I do n't think they would issue a new overlapping visa . Since it 's all one trip , you should in principle have applied to one consulate with documentation covering the stay in both countries . Since you already have that visa , I am not sure what your options are now . One possibility could be to have Spanish visa revoked and start a new application but that sounds like a lot of hassle . If you do get a new visa , traveling on two visas is not a problem and you would n't need to leave the area , see <URL>
According to <URL> there is still visa required for Indian Citizens , though it will be less expensive then for the US citizens . As far as I can tell Visa On arrival is available <URL> with no further details an restrictions on countries have been made available : VISA AT ARRIVAL : THIS VISA IS FOR BUSINESS ONLY . THE APPLICATION AND FEES ARE DONE IN SURINAME There is a <URL> which one can purchase at <URL> but again it 's not available for Indian Citizens . So as you indicated in another one of your questions : more visas for you .
An American breakfast is simply the American variant of an <URL> , which is elsewhere an <URL> -- what Wikipedia in its neutralism calls a <URL> , in contrast to the so-called <URL> . A full breakfast is a " heavy " breakfast high in animal protein such as eggs , sausage , ham , and/or bacon , often fried . The American variant will have some kind of bread such as flapjacks/pancakes , French toast , or a waffle , and American-style sausage or bacon . I have rarely seen a hotel " American " breakfast that includes genuinely American dishes like waffles and chicken , grits , or biscuits and gravy .
The capsules from Soyuz - Apollo flight used to be and Apollo 11 command module is at the <URL> . A quick search also gives a list of all remaining <URL> based on that there is only one in Europe in London .
BCEL has an ATM outside the airport arrivals area . Look for the " LDB Exchange " counter adjacent to the main exit . ( If you stand at the counter and look out the window you 'll see the sign for the ATM . ) Head outside .
While there are many dedicated and local sites that you can find for concert listings , I find that <URL> usually has everything . Especially for large cities like New York , Toronto , and Montreal it will definitely cover everything , no matter how esoteric your music tastes are . And if you ' scrobble ' your listening to Last.fm , it can even help you narrow down the listings to artists you listen to more - because in any given month if you 're looking at the complete list you 'll be looking at dozen of entries for each week .
Twitter . Seriously , twitter . I 've not done it a lot , but have had to complain to a few airlines in my time travelling . Phone : they did n't care , usually , just wanted to end the call . Email : sometimes no response , sometimes automated . Sometimes helpful . Facebook : I 've not done this , but friends have had better responses here as it 's also pretty public , and others usually chime in with your complaint . Twitter : within hours/minutes , a response to take your query offline/private , and to help deal with it . They do NOT like complaints being aired on twitter , so they try to help ASAP with that outlet . ( Disclaimer : currently a contractor at an airline ) edit : twitter - apart from Jetstar , when I tweeted that they were no help and I 'd had to buy a ticket with Virgin instead , replied " have a good flight " .
Nope . For new visas , you only ever need your active , current passport - specifically ( if you have two or more citizenships ) , the passport you intend to travel to the country ( in this case Japan ) on . You may be asked for other documentation - e.g. proof of funds , accommodation and so on , but you wo n't need the past passports . They 're considered invalid documents for the purpose of acquiring a visa . Edit : Included <URL> .
end question
start question
How do EU citizens claim healthcare bills in the Netherlands with the EHIC ?
Being myself insured in the Netherlands , I am not 100 % sure how it works for non-residents but the way health care is structured here is that there is no national health service but many independent providers and several private insurers . However , prices and insurance coverage are regulated . In practice , general practitioner ( huisarts ) consultations are free at the point of use ( billed directly to the insurer ) but prescriptions and many other things are paid by the patient , at least in part . As far as I know , you should always try to consult a GP first and he or she will refer you to a specialist or hospital if needed . Regarding the way you should use the EHIC , the best thing is to check the official app ( <URL> or <URL> ) and always show the card whenever you seek health care . Apparently , one insurer , Agis , is <URL> ( the English-language version of the website is apparently unavailable but there is a link to a PDF brochure in English at the bottom of the page ) . In a nutshell , the EHIC provides you with a coverage equivalent to the " basic insurance " defined in the law so that a GP consultation should be free and other health care providers should be able to claim insured costs directly from Agis , which would basically acts as your insurer in the Netherlands . If for some reasons some health care provider can not take care of it directly , you might need to pay everything first and lodge a claim with Agis at the following address to get ( part of ) the money back : You will need to fill in the form provided on the website and send a copy of the bill , a copy of your EHIC and the IBAN number from your bank account . They also have a specific email and telephone number for international matters , they might be able to provide more details on what you should expect to pay should you need to be hospitalized : Finally , if everything else fails , you can still try to contact your insurance or health care administration in your country of residence . You should expect some paperwork and delays but they might still be able to reimburse some things . Waiting to be back and seeking reimbursement is not how the system is supposed to work so there might be difficulties but it 's not completely impossible either . Given that Dutch patients have deductibles ( eigen risico ) and a personal contribution to some expenses , you might have to cover part of the costs in any case . The EU app also suggests that some costs not covered in the Netherlands might still be claimed in your home country ( specifically dental care if you are covered for it ) .
The practice of accompanying an espresso with a glass of water is typical in southern Italy , and in particular in Naples in which coffee is something of a mystical ritual . Recently other establishments across Italy ( and worldwide ) have begun following this practice . High-end places might serve you a glass of water as an implicit statement saying that their coffee is so good that it requires you to clean your mouth to properly taste it . The purpose of the glass of water is twofold . It cleans the palate before drinking the coffee , allowing you to better enjoy its taste . It also helps compensate for the thirst that usually comes after drinking the coffee ( a preemptive measure , if you will ) . <URL> : Un ottimo servizio prevede che l’espresso venga accompagnato da un bicchiere con acqua ( poca , non occorre pieno ) . Se l’acqua dell ' acquedotto è buona , va benissimo . Perché l’acqua ? Perché il caffè fa venire sete e desiderio di bere . Quando berla ? Un vero intenditore la beve sempre prima di bere il caffè , affinché rimangano a lungo in bocca il gusto e gli aromi . There 's a chance that the bar you visited serves a glass of water with hot chocolate , for similar purposes as outlined above . Of course , nothing stops you from drinking the water after finishing your hot beverage . You might see a few frowned faces around you , but all in all should you really care ? I believe you 're free to consume your purchased drinks in whichever order you prefer , regardless of unwritten rules and traditions .
If I travel to a destination in Europe that is outside the UK ( my home base ) , I take 100 Euro in cash . There 's no need for more because ATM 's are available . If I go outside the EEA , like to the US or Africa , I take 200 in Sterling and the equivalent of 100 dollars in local currency ( like Canadian dollars for example ) . My rationale is that if more cash is needed , then something extraordinary has come up where there 's a problem anyway . The exception being Russia . Although you are supposed to be purely Rubble in everything you do , you only need about 3,000 Rubble with the rest in Euro . What Mark did n't mention in his answer ( +1 from me by the way ) is for the generic case where you travel a lot . Then it can be better to keep <URL> . They can help prevent your <URL> in both directions . I keep a Dollar account along with my Sterling account just for that purpose . Talk to your bank if you think that a denominated account can be helpful for you . These types of accounts are available at most of the major banks in the US . Adding from commentary If you are going to be driving and the country levies on-the-spot speeding ( or whatever ) penalties , make the cash amount in local currency enough so that you will be able to pay there &amp; then . Or expect to have your car impounded until you pay in some countries . Update ( 5 April 2015 ) You have updated your question to now ask " What types of things is he likely to need cash for ? " In the Netherlands ( and most of the EEA in general ) , he would likely need cash for ... News agents Small grocery stores Traffic penalties Tips Older style taxis and gypsy cabs Open air market vendors Charity donations ( including cathedral collections ) Illicit items ( out of scope here ) The most consequential of these are penalties which are actively intervened by the police ( as opposed to violations caught on traffic cameras ) . Penalties can vary , but in all except the most egregious cases are less than 50 to 70 Euro ... Foreign offenders will be fined the penalty payable in the country of the offence , but fines vary across Europe , with Germany levying $ 10 for a minor speed offence while France fines offenders $ 68 ( or $ 45 if paid promptly ) . Source : <URL> In the Netherlands , speeding penalties are calculated with a mathematics formula , but it would be extraordinary to see a penalty exceeding 35 Euro if you are clocked within 6 km/h of the limit . Violations that are caught on camera are dealt with by a penalty notice sent to the registered owner . For visitors it means the rental agency will pay the fine and debit your credit card for the amount plus their handling fee .
The best advice is to bring as little " stuff " as possible . If you think about all the stuff you 're bringing , you could categorize it like this : I will definitely need it in the airport or on the plane ( Eg passport , money ) It will make me more comfortable in the airport or on the plane ( eg pillow , book ) If it were lost , stolen , delayed or damaged my trip would be pointless or ruined ( eg laptop ) If I check it I will have to pay a baggage fee or wait for it to come out on the belt Try to restrict yourself to items " above the line " . Now what you 're dealing with in the stores , the bathroom , at security and so on is a large purse or a small backpack and not something on wheels that a store might be likely to ban . Of course if you 're travelling with another person , it 's such a luxury to leave your stuff with them while you pop off to do something . Many business lounges have small lockers - you ca n't get a rollaboard in them , but you can get a backpack in , and I have used that to stash my carryon while I spent a layover exploring a city . It 's overkill for wanting to go shopping , but something to keep in mind if you have a long time to spend in an airport . ( I believe they 're designed for you to put your stuff in while you shower , or to simplify wandering around the lounge getting food , drink , and reading material without wanting to drag all your stuff around . )
From <URL> ( same article as <URL> ) : <URL> - <URL> ( <URL> ) flight number : LOG 313 , 2.7 km ( 1.7 miles ) 02 min , aircraft : <URL> , first flight - 3 February 2004 It is obvious from that list that the best option is try searching near the islands . Second place is for the <URL> ( from St. Kitts to Nevis ) . Update : <URL> ( with video ) ! Update by Rory Alsop : Flight by my father , Capt. Andy Alsop <URL> , and then reduced by him to 58 seconds ! Screenshot of the page linked above ( from <URL> ) , as it may not be viewable to everyone : You can fly this on a <URL>
There are blogs on the subject of what actually happens with the confiscated items : <URL> <URL> and there are a few others . Basically TSA confiscated items that can be resold are being resold through the Surplus program run by the state where the airport is located . So for example in Pennsylvania <URL> administers such a program , so if you want buy something it would either be at the Harrisburg Warehouse or listed on <URL> .
No This is specified in the <URL> . Specifically ( emphasis mine ) , section 2.3.2 : For each actually flown segment of a fully paid scheduled flight operated by Lufthansa , a joint operator or a Miles &amp; More partner company , the member 's account will be credited with miles -- subject to Sections 2.3.6 and 2.3.7 . and section 2.3.6 : Any mileage credit is also excluded for unused , reimbursed , lapsed or unlawfully obtained documents ( tickets , coupons , etc. ) . The same applies in other cases of non-utilization or the refund of the service qualifying for earning miles .
In Belgium and in the Netherlands you can take your bicycle on the train . Some restrictions may apply . In Belgium , the conductor will show you the place where you can store the bicycle . It costs <URL> , or <URL> . Folding bicycles are carried for free . You are advised to avoid trains during the peak hours , although it is not strictly forbidden . In the Netherlands you can take your bicycle with you on the train during off-peak hours . Peak hours are weekdays from 06:30 to 09:00 and from 16:30 to 18:00 . This restriction does not apply at weekends , on public holidays or in July and August . Bicycles must be placed in the special bicycle area on the train . You will recognise this area by the sticker on the outside of the train . As in Belgium , you need to pay a supplement and folding bicycles are carried for free . The price for the supplement is <URL> , irrespective of the journey .
The pedals are the same The gear shift stays in the middle of the vehicle , so you 'll have to get used to operating it with your left hand The arrangement of gears also is the same , so top left is the 1st gear , etc. . Also , people who use the right foot to control the clutch should not be allowed to operate a can opener , let alone a car .
<URL> . If the delay was not caused by " extraordinary circumstances " , you may be entitled to some monetary compensation .
The rules will apply to the operating carrier . ie , the one that is actually flying the flight - not the one that you booked with . EU Compensation applies to EU airlines regardless of where the flight is to/from , AND to non-EU airlines for flights DEPARTING an EU member state . eg , a Lufthansa flight between the US and Frankfurt would be covered in either direction , whilst a United flight would only be covered from Germany to the US and NOT in the other direction . So if you book a Lufthansa codeshare that was actually operated by United , then the regulations would apply only on the legs that depart from the EU , and not for any other legs as United is the operating carrier .
The <URL> is crystal clear : passengers must be given the possibility of opting out from a security scanner . In this case the passenger shall be screened by an alternative screening method including at least a hand search ; The UK governments , as usual in their bizarre anti freedom ways tried to resist opt outs going so far in 2010 , <URL> Earlier this month two women , one a Muslim , became the first people to be barred from boarding a flight at Manchester airport because they refused to go through a full-body scanner . but as of <URL> you can opt out at every UK airport as well .
If you believe the UK <URL> the green card is not necessary within the EU if the car is registered and insured in the EU : I have been told that a Green Card is not necessary for travel in Europe . Is this true ? It is correct that a Green Card is not required by law to cross borders within the European Union . This is because every EU country complies with the First Directive on Motor Insurance which says that every insurance policy issued in the EU must provide the minimum insurance cover required by law in any other EU country . Green Cards are also not necessary for some non-EU countries who are signatory to Section III of the Internal Regulations , which is an international agreement between Green Card Bureaux . These countries are Iceland , Norway , Switzerland ( incorporating Liechtenstein ) , Andorra and Serbia . Although a Green Card is not necessary for these non-EU countries our advice is to check the insurance position with your insurers before you travel . Our understanding is that a UK insurer is not legally obliged to provide cover for non-EU countries , although some may choose to do so . Similarly <URL> states it is not necessary to have a green card , but recommendable to carry some proof of insurance : It is not essential for an EU citizen to have a Green Card when travelling within the EU and certain other European countries , though if you do not take one you should instead carry your Certificate of Insurance . However , a Green Card can serve as easily recognisable proof of third party insurance , for example in the case of an accident , when travelling abroad . Finally the <URL> lists countried you need no green card for and such where it is needed : A Green Card is not required by law to cross borders within the European Union and some other countries . This is because all EU countries and certain other countries comply with the first directive on motor insurance , which says that every insurance policy issued in the EU must provide the minimum insurance cover required by law in any other EU country . The countries that do n't need a Green Card are : Andorra , Austria , Belgium , Bulgaria , Croatia , Cyprus , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Greece , Hungary , Iceland , Ireland , Italy , Latvia , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Malta , Netherlands , Norway , Poland , Portugal , Romania , Slovak Republic , Slovenia , Spain , Sweden and Switzerland . The countries that do need a Green Card are : Albania , Belarus , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia ( FYROM ) , Islamic Republic of Iran , Israel , Moldava , Morocco , Russia , Serbia and Montenegro , Tunisia , Turkey and Ukraine . Some more information my be found on <URL> and <URL> , but essentially gives the same answer .
According to <URL> , this is either <URL> line ( 3315 km ) , closely followed by Paris-Moscow ( 3217 km ) . I would have thought that the Venice Simplon Express on the route <URL> or the <URL> route would be a good candidate too , but I ca n't really find the distances . A google maps route plan using a car suggest that both are shorter than the above , but obviously this will depend on the exact route taken .
It depends on which trains you 're using , as they differ from service to service . A <URL> covers much of this . I 'll try and summarise : Sun and Ski Thalys - only guide dogs Thalys - small and guide dogs = free in a basket . Bigger dogs = buy a ticket . TGV - yes , but must buy a ticket and be in a box or muzzled and on a leash . Eurostar - only guide dogs . ICE - yes , with exceptions , tickets to be purchased . Domestic Netherlands trains - yes , <URL> apply : A small pet that fits into a bag or basket or can be kept on your lap may free on the train . For leashed pets you must purchase a Day Pass dog . Regardless of your destination this ticket costs $ 3 . Note that each rail carrier uses other terms and rules . If you have an OV-year subscription , you may take one dog free .
This will depend on at least four things : the rewards program , how close it is to your flight date , the insurance you 've bought , and to a certain extent the reason for your change . For example , most programs wo n't let you cancel the flight within a certain number of days ( 22 is popular ) and instead will only let you change it . Before that point , you get your miles back and the insurance will presumably cover the fee , which will probably be around $ 100 . After that point , you can change to go somewhere else a lot later and ask the insurance to cover the fee . This wo n't work if you are n't likely to be able to fly within the next year , say as a result of a disastrous health problem , but would be workable for a family emergency that requires you to cancel your vacation . The <URL> says : Q : How do I change my award travel reservation ? A : Changing award reservations online is not an available feature at this time . Please contact AAdvantage Reservations at 1-800-882-8880 to make any changes to an award travel reservation . Any changes made to your reservation after ticketing may result in a charge . Q : How long is my ticket valid ? A : All travel on an award ticket must be completed within one year from the date of issue . Q : What do I do if I claim an award and am not able to use it ? A : Once ticketed , you will have one year from the date of ticketing to fly , unless otherwise stated . AAdvantage mileage will be reinstated for unused and unexpired award tickets upon return of the ticket and payment of a processing charge . If changing is n't an option , the insurance wo n't be much help . But if changing is an option , perhaps insurance is n't even necessary for you .
There are no international standards for airline transport of musical instruments . Each airline has its own policy as to what it will or wo n't accept as checked or cabin luggage , what its dimensions are or how large or heavy it can be , how much insurance might be required , what the baggage fee would be , and so on . So unfortunately , you will need to check with every airline in your itinerary as to their policies and fees . Bringing instruments on as hand luggage adds day-of-travel concerns as well ; if the scheduled plane is swapped for a smaller one at the last minute , you may no longer be able to take it aboard , or if you arrive late at a connection and all the overhead bin and other storage space is occupied , you 'd be asked to check the instrument or have to be rescheduled for a later flight . If you search around the web you will find innumerable horror stories ( one incident <URL> not long ago , although in fairness it could have happened on any airline ) . But you 'll also find personal accounts like <URL> ; newspaper articles like <URL> or this <URL> ; tips from musicians ' organizations such as the lists by the <URL> ; suggestions from manufacturers and retailers like <URL> ; and independent resources like <URL> . To summarize some of the common tips , consider the following : Contact each airline and explain you will be traveling with an instrument . For example , an airline might allow you to purchase an extra seat for a tuba or a bass , but may allow only one instrument per flight , which wo n't be obvious when you book online . For many airlines it is not possible to reserve an extra seat for a single person , meaning you will need to call and get a seat assignment anyway . Invest in a good travel case . Even though some instruments may be able to fit into standard luggage , they will generate less suspicion from security and more sympathy from gate agents and flight attendants if stored in a proper instrument case , not to mention enjoy better protection . The smallest case that will fit the instrument is advisable ; while that means it has less space for tools or cleaning fluids , those are probably best packed separately anyway as they can cause security screening delays . Purchase sufficient insurance . Be prepared to purchase an extra seat for it , if it is larger than a cello and you do n't want to check it . Some airlines forbid this , others require it . Be prepared and be patient . Bring printouts of each airline 's musical instrument policy . Arrive early and board as early as possible to maximize your storage options . But above all be friendly and patient with all airport , security , and airline personnel ; they can make any traveler 's experience difficult , but passengers with special requirements are an easier target . Within the United States , airlines are subject to federal <URL> requiring them to accept musical instruments as checked or carry-on luggage . One more thing : your instrument may be able to collect frequent flyer miles , but not always , and it 's become <URL> for airlines . Given all of that , it may be worth considering traveling with a backup instrument instead of your favorite , to borrow or rent an instrument at your destination , or use an alternative instrument ( e.g. a travel electric bass instead of your regular double bass ) . Of course , none of these options is a slam dunk , either .
There 's nothing wrong with wanting some peace and quiet while traveling , to many people travel is more of a hassle than an enjoyment so I 'd say it 's quite common for travellers to expect non-social time . Not everyone is trying to chat all the time . Social cues and customs differ between countries , but I 'd say in the West at least , if someone strikes up a conversation with a stranger it 's probably because that person looks " available " for a chat . Some things I do when I do n't feel like having a chat is to busy myself with something , like reading/writing , smartphones are a blessing and a curse in that regard . Simply having earphones on ( music optional ) or closing your eyes for a light sleep also sends the message that you 're not up for conversation . That said , I 've learned to enjoy the occasional small talk with travellers . I 'm a bit of a private person as well but sometimes it ca n't be avoided , so might as well relax and make the best of it , it 's a part of travel as a whole
No , it does not need to match . I have a UK EHIC card ( bound to my insurance as a UK resident ) and have a passport of another EU state , that is totally fine and worked well so far . As you can see in the <URL> , you can apply for an EHIC card as a national of the UK , EEA and Switzerland . All what counts is your proof of residency . ( That concerned the first version of the question ) : However , in case the UK leaves the EU completely and without health insurance agreements between the EU and UK being in place , you need ( as a UK resident ) to take care of your insurance matters yourself ( for getting emergency treatments in EU countries ) .
I can answer " What risk is there on the ICE to not getting a seat reservation ? " for the Dutch part , as I take this train every work day , without reservation . There is an electronic display above each pair of seats that says on which stretch the seat is reserved , e.g. if it says " Utrecht - Frankfurt " and you sit there when the train is in Utrecht , you are likely to be asked to move to another seat . Many of these people do show up ( but not all of them ) . There are also 6-seat rooms that have the displays besides the doors . There are also seats that say " Ggf . freigeben " . It means that the seat may be reserved , it was available for " Express Reservierung " ( do n't ask me how to do an express reservation ) . In practice you wo n't often have to stand up if you sit here , but it does happen . Many seats will also show no reservation , so it would be best to pick one of those . Most of the time , there is enough place to sit , so a reservation is n't really necessary . On some times and some days the train may be very full , mostly due to inside-Netherlands commuters like me ( we leave in Arnhem at the latest ) , and on some moments like the start of the weekend due to actual international travellers . Then you 're unlucky and will have to stand , but luckily the Bistro serves drinks ... After Arnhem , the train becomes much quieter . I do n't know if it becomes busier again after Duisburg .
end question
start question
Do ( separate ) multi-cities international flights obey the luggage restriction from the international leg ?
So , I called Air Canada and they said we are wrong . The 2 baggage policy from my International Flight would only apply if I was travelling with connections . As I 'm stopping over some cities , those will all be domestic flights , applying the domestic flight rules .
Sterile international transfer is possible at many gateway airports in many countries , but one can not make a rule about it . It depends on the facilities of the airport and its terminals , including staff , and it goes without saying that you should always double-check transit requirements when planning a trip . At Toronto Pearson ( YYZ ) , for example , I believe sterile transfer is possible if your inbound and outbound flights both use Terminal 1 ( as with some U.S.-bound flights ) , but as most long-haul international carriers use Terminal 3 , you 'd need to go through CBSA screening as there is no sterile transit facility between terminals . On the other side of the country Vancouver goes so far as to provide a <URL> calculator that determines the procedure applicable to you based on your arriving and departing airlines -- sterile transit is only possible with certain connections and only between the hours of 9:00 am and 8:00 pm local time .
Depends on your ticket conditions and the airline in question , but odds are pretty likely the answer is no . What you have sounds like an open-jaw return : you 've basically paid for A-B/B-A return as a single ticket , with a small surcharge to return from C instead . Airlines will generally not refund any portion of a return ticket after the journey has begun ( = you have flown one half of it ) , and this applies to open-jaw returns as well . A " true " multi-city itinerary consists of a series of one-way flight tickets tacked onto each other . These would usually let you refund individual segments , because they 're separate tickets under the hood , but they also usually cost a lot more .
Your luggage will be checked in all the way . You do n't need to collect it as you will be in transit , and your luggage will be in a secured area . You will ( of course ) have to carry your carry-on luggage with you to the next plane .
DB treats the Railjet as an IC/EC train , no supplement is required . While travel to Salzburg is basically treated as domestic German travel , even if you were traveling in Austria , the ÖBB does n't distinguish ticketing between train classes except for in extremely discounted regional tickets ( Einfach Raus Ticket can only be used on S , R , REX , ... ) , supplements do n't exist in Austria . ( In regards to " are all [ international ] train tickets valid " the answer is no . Although your ticket is valid , there are a number of tickets that are either tied to a specific train / departure time or limited to regional trains . )
Even though the people who walk past are unlikely to be want to buy a suitcase right now , they are still the target demographic . How many other locations are there in a city where you can open a store where 100 % of the people that walk past are people that travel by air , and thus the type of people that will be in the market for your products ? How many non-airport locations around an area like the San Francisco Bay Area would you need to open a store in order to pretty much guarantee that every person who flies internationally at least once a year walks in front of your store ? A dozen ? A few dozen ? How about if you do it in an airport ? Perhaps 2 ? ( eg , SFO has 2 international terminals ) . Some of the luggage shops you find in airports are for a particular brand . eg , there is a Tumi store in Newark airport . Even if that store was to never actually sell a single piece of luggage , they are building their brand and allowing people to see and try their product range before going home and ordering the same pieces from their website or from another store - all of which works in their favor . The remainder of the stores generally sell high-end luggage which they would likely be able to ship to a home location if someone purchased something and was unable to take it with them or collect on their return trip . At the end of the day , do n't think of these as luggage stores , just think of them as high-end retail , marketing to a demographic that frequents airports ( high wealth/travelers ) .
Since you have one ticket , you do n't have to worry . If you miss your connection you will get transferred to the next available flight . Also most flights these days arrive ahead of time . There is <URL> epic answer that explains this in detail .
I remember transiting at Zurich Airport a couple of years ago ( both flights on one Swiss ticket ) and arriving airside , so I guess that means yes for you . <URL> It 's not super-clear but I read Arriving Schengen and non-Schengen passengers are handled in separate areas of the Airside Center and reach the Airport Center by different routes , with non-Schengen passengers first passing through immigration controls . as confirming the above . Finally <URL> is in agreement with that .
Basically , no . As my Colombian flatmate in London put it , every time a revolution occurs , the first thing that gets hit is the infrastructure , and down goes the rail . Not sure how accurate that is in all countries , but it 's certainly the case in Argentina , Chile , Bolivia , Peru , Ecuador , and Colombia . There are some limited train options in Argentina - from Buenos Aires to nearby cities ( like Rosario ) . However the buses are cheaper , and faster , and it 's not far , so why you 'd take the train I 'm not sure . There 's also a train from Ollantaytambo to Aguas Calientes in Peru for Machu Picchu tourists , but that 's a few hours . Worth it though if you are n't hiking , as the views are spectacular ! There 's also a <URL> tourist train from Salta , Argentina , but it 's a one-day thing and comes back to Salta at night . However , not to worry ! The buses , especially in Argentina and Chile , are absolutely fantastic ! For example , a <URL> . They inevitably have movies , great seats that for a few extra euros you can convert to seats that become beds ( known as full-cama ) , and can get food options from crackers up to roasts ! Bolivia and Peru were n't quite as luxurious , in fact I found the buses in Bolivia painful ( but they were cheap ) , although near Lima in Peru you could find the full range of luxury if you so wanted .
The airlines will not care ; they might call out your name a few times - but they will consider you a no-show . As far as immigration is concerned , as long as you have a valid visa for the US , they also do not care . So , the answer to your question is : No , you do n't have to notify the airline . The immigration will not have problems . They might ask you why you stayed , and if so , you should just tell them the truth . The only thing that raises eyebrows is if you pay cash for a one-way ticket at the last minute . So , try to pay for your final trip online with a credit card or book it through an agent .
Well there is definitely free Wi-Fi at Guangzhou International Airport , including in locations that transit passengers can use . When I was in transit for four hours a few days ago I 'd say about every second departure gate had an Internet point which included I think two electric sockets on either side . These were of course a bit crowded with people using and charging various devices . There were various other sockets around the place that took various shaped plugs , but all the ones I tried seemed to have their electric supply disabled leaving only those at the Internet points working . It turns out that to get a login you need a mobile phone or an account on some Chinese Internet service I 'd never heard of called <URL> . I 'm a bit of a phone hater so I did n't understand some of the jargon but it seemed that only Chinese phone numbers would work , perhaps only certain carriers : China Mobile , China Unicorn , and China Telecom . As I had no telephone and no Sina Weibo account I spent my four hours without Internet at Guangzhou airport .
It is not " useless " , it just has a different goal . Their website clearly states the difference between their products and a government issued International license : " These unofficial documents will help you overcome language differences when traveling " . So the goal of their products is only to help you with the language difference , that 's all . Plus they offer to save some document on your smartphone in case you lose the translating document . Moreover , as they state , " International driving permits , which are booklets issued by governmental agencies or private organizations designated by a country 's government , are the only official translation of a person 's driver 's license . " In other words , you should ask the government which issued your driving license for a valid International license . Their product will not be considered as valid , anywhere you go . Deciding if it is worth it is up to you .
From <URL> : Nearest capital cities The closest capital cities of two sovereign countries are Vatican City , Vatican , and Rome , Italy , one of which is inside the other ( the distance between the middle points , St. Peter 's Square/Piazza Venezia is about 2 km ) . The two second closest capital cities between two sovereign countries are Kinshasa , Democratic Republic of the Congo , and Brazzaville , Republic of the Congo , which are about 1.6 km ( 0.99 mi ) apart , one upstream from the other on different banks of the Congo River ( the distance between the middle points is about 10 km ) . Vienna and Bratislava , sometimes erroneously considered the two closest capitals , are 55 km ( 34 mi ) apart .
Here 's what I ended up doing : I left my hotel at 5:30 to walk up to Colaba Causeway to catch a bus to Churchgate station . There are at least four different buses doing this route including the 106,123 and 132 . I had to wait 30 minutes for the first bus , in this time I could have walked to the station . The fare was 6 Rs . At Churchgate I bought a ticket ( 8 Rs ) for the fast train to Andheri station which left at 6:14 and took about 35min . There are many trains but I recommend using a fast one . Because I was good on time , I had breakfast at a restaurant near Andheri station for 20 min and then took bus No. 308 ( 7 Rs ) right to the airport . Finally there was a 3min walk to the terminal . So the whole journey took less than 2 hours and cost 21 Rs ( US$ 0.42 ) . If you are leaving later in the day , the traffic is much havier but there are also more frequent buses . Also both buses and trains get very busy during rush hour , but I still think it is possible to do this at any time of the day if you do n't have too much luggage .
There is a lounge , but the airport website does n't seem to mention it ... It 's a third party lounge , the Reef Lounge . <URL> to it , as apparently do JetStar for their Economy Starter Max and Business Max passengers . You can also get access to the lounge with a <URL> . The Priority Pass website has quite a lot of details on it , but I ca n't work out how to link to the page , so you 'll need to <URL> , pick Australia + Cairns + Reef Lounge to see all about it !
Checked : any one that you like . Carry-on : nothing with a knife/knife-like/blade for <URL> . <URL> , you can generally get away with something that has a blade less than 4 " . Practical : I commuted between Sydney and USA ( Texas ) every 6 - 8 weeks for three years , making dozens of trips . I had a Swiss Army Card with the file attachment removed . About 18 months into traveling , Australian airport security confiscated it , on the basis that the ( very , very small ) scissors blade represented a weapon . All of the <URL> have a blade , scissor , or blade-like implement . Your only option would be to check it or selectively remove items prior to traveling with it as your carry-on . Otherwise you risk having it confiscated . However , there 's at least a decent chance you 'll get away with it .
There is really no ' trick ' to this type of travel . If you want to book this as a single itinerary then the only ' trick ' is to go to as many booking sites ( brokers and airlines ) as you can manage and do price comparisons . It helps to have some flexibility in the dates . If you do n't mind booking multiple tickets , probably the best deal on this trip will be to buy two round trip tickets . First A - > B - > A and then , separately , B - > C - > B with the latter ticket being within the time you spend in city B . The main issue with this is that these are independent tickets . If flight A - > B is delayed , causing you to miss B - > C then you are responsible for buying a new B - > C ticket . Since you plan on staying in B before proceeding to C , this will only be a problem on your return journey where a delay in C - > B can cause you to miss B - > A. Ideally , you should split your stay in B to ensure against this . At minimum ensure that you have 3 + hours stopover on the way back ( more if the flight B - > A is an expensive one ) . Lastly , it is worth pricing individual flights from A - > B , B - > C and C - > A. Typically , you wont save any money over two round trip tickets , but sometimes it may wind up only costing a little bit more and you get a simpler leg C - > A . This will vary depending on what cities A , B and C are and how they relate to each other . Also if an airline has its hub in A and offers flight to both B and C ( but has no flights between B and C ) they may sell you a return ticket with the legs A - > B and C - > A . This all depends on what cites A , B and C stand for . I did a trip like this recently where A was Reykjavik , B Washington D.C. and C San Francisco . It wound up being simplest to book A - > B and C - > A ( via Seattle actually ) as a return ticket with one airline and then B - > C as a separate one-way ticket with another airline . Doing it this way was actually a bit cheaper ( although only a bit ) but the flight home via Seattle was much shorter then to go back home via D.C.
Because they can . Not all tourists spend money in the cities and most cities do not get direct benefits from tourist money while they do spend money on public transport , roads and other things tourists use . In most places I have been tourist tax was a very small amount , about 1 % or less of the cost of being a tourist in the town .
Assuming you are flying through on the same airline or partner airlines and your bags are checked through , then no visa needed . ( CZ-CZ or CZ-KE ) If by chance you are changing carriers / alliances , you need to ask the airline originating in New York if they can check your bags through to the connecting airline . If the bags can not be checked through you will need a transit permit go claim your bags and then check them in for your next flight .
Staying Airside ? Do n't Need a Transit Visa <URL> : TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) : Holders of confirmed onward tickets for a max . transit time of 24 hours . You 'll need a visa if you wish to leave the terminal building and effectively enter the country . Countries that are not eligible for a visa on arrival must secure a visa before flying to UAE . Leaving the Airport ? Get a 96-hour Transit Visa on Arrival If you are not normally eligible for a visa on arrival , <URL> , provided you meet the following conditions ( striked-out fees are my modification since online prices are somewhat unreliable ) : This is what the IATA Travel Information Manual ( TIM ) says ( April 2011 edition ) ( the best version of an " official source " that we can find ) . Note that it only applies to Dubai Airport , not other cities or emirates . All conditions must be satisfied ... in theory . If you end up in Dubai and do n't satisfy all conditions , it might be worth trying anyway , but assume you 'll fail and you wo n't be disappointed . A 96-hour ( " Dubai Stop-over " ) transit visa can be obtained on arrival at DXB provided : Traveling to a third country through Dubai International Airport ; Transit time is at least 8 hours ; Holding return/onward ticket and a hotel reservation ; Traveling at least one sector ( inbound or outbound ) on Emirates ( EK ) . Fee : USD 127 . Facility is not applicable to passengers arriving on SQ-flights . No visa will be issued on arrival to female passengers under 30 years of age , being nationals of CIS countries . Not applicable to nationals of Afghanistan , Iraq , Niger , Somalia and Yemen . <URL> : Visa Issuance : A 96-hour transit visa can be obtained on arrival at Dubai ( DXB ) , provided : [ ... ] holding a passport valid for at least 6 months from date of arrival . Visas are only issued as a part of a transit package together with hotel accommodation and airport transfer ( paid by passenger ) .
end question
start question
Why does the TSA allow two 3-ounce containers but not one 6-ounce container ?
When you 're making rules like this , simplicity and objectivity are vital . You do n't want ( whether you 're a traveller , a supervisor of the security staff , or a person trying to prevent terrorism ) a situation where security staff need to make decisions on their feet based on whether the passenger 's story is good enough or any other kind of judgement call . Hmm , you have shampoo and conditioner , well yes your hair is quite long , you may pass . Oh my , you are almost completely bald , why would you need conditioner , we 're confiscating this , and so on . Travellers want to be confident their stuff wo n't be banned . Staff need to be able to do their jobs as quickly and consistently as possible . And the person who made the rules needs to be sure they will always be enforced as imagined . That 's why you ca n't bring 50 ml of stuff in a 600 ml bottle . Reading the label and seeing that it says 600 ml is simple , unambiguous and consistent . It works even if the security staff are not that bright . And there 's no need for a complicated appeal process . Someone else reads the label and says yup , 600 ml , this is a no-go . There 's no argument about whether you have 80 ml left in the bottle or 120 ml left in the bottle . The rule is just about the bottle . Your little bottles are each under 100ml and all fit in the baggie of freedom ? You 're free to go . Nobody stops to say hey , each of these bottles appears to have the very same stuff in it . That would require judgement . The volumes - the 100 ml and the dimensions of the baggie of freedom - have been chosen so that even if you brought 6 or 7 bottles ( whatever can fit ) of the maximum allowed size all of the same stuff , you would n't be able to do much damage . ( And really , checking that they are all labelled as different things would n't do much - we can all make labels . ) Also , if you used larger sub-bottles - say 200 ml - you could get more total volume into the baggie , so using small sub-bottles is another way of constraining the total volume . Designing a very simple and consistent system makes the checking faster . It lets people bring shampoo , conditioner , lotion , toothpaste , shaving cream etc. . And it was set up so that it still constrains the bad guys . Sort of . It 's not that hard to circumvent , in reality , since there are exemptions for things that are labelled ( eg saline solution , prescription medication ) and tremendous trust in labels . But it 's all tradeoffs , and this certainly makes people feel protected . It even has some effect . Nothing is 100 % , but the liquid-reducing measures do mean that more conspirators would be required for most terror acts , and more conspirators means more chances to catch them before they even get to the airport .
A few tidbits about Visa Debit cards ( from the USA I am guessing ) . While they work in all USA ATMs , as you discovered they are not always tied to the Plus ATM network so you need to make sure the ATM machine displays the Visa logo . If you have a choice , when outside the USA the card should be treated as a " credit card " not a " debit card " when used for POS ( points of sale ) transactions ( food , stores , gas , etc ) . The USA systems for pin based debit transactions are n't link to many countries outside . Many banks now limit the cash advance amount to the same as your ATM withdrawal limit . They used to allow you to withdraw up to your daily limit for purchases , but now most treat the advance the same as ATM transactions . If the ATM asks what account , what we call a " checking " account , many countries call a " current " account . Always let your bank known you will be traveling and where .
Since nobody has found a shorter distance , it seems that Namibia and Zimbabwe are the closest pair .
A flight number is simply that : a number for a flight , not a number for a plane . The planes are just an implementation detail to make flights happen .
There is nothing strange about this . Depending on flight conditions or other restrictions , various services on flights have been disabled before . For example : Meal service is stopped if the flight is going through turbulent weather . People are restricted to move around the cabin during normal flight . Cabin lights may be turned on during night time flights . The ICE ( information , communication , entertainment ) systems may be switched off . It depends on what the crew feel is impacting the safety of the flight . Once a colleague of mine was asked to turn off his laptop while the plane was sitting at the gate , with the engines turned off by the crew . He was as baffled as I am because normally in this scenario you are allowed to use electronics and radios . However , he was asked to do so by the crew on the instructions of the captain . Specifically for the use of mobile phones and wifi , this depends on the aircraft being flown . On Emirates , for example , the system is available on all their A380 aircraft , but only some of the 777-300s because these are the older aircraft in their fleet . I am not aware of any restrictions specific to China regarding mobile use on commercial flights ; but as a general rule you are only allowed to use the mobile phone if the crew allows you to do so .
This is prohibited for safety reasons . Each row has one extra oxygen mask ( there are exceptions , some rows have no extra masks and they will be marked somehow ) . If more than one infant is seated in a parent 's lap and the oxygen masks were to be used one of the row occupants will have no oxygen mask to use . Usually the reservation system/agents will avoid such a situation but it could happen that a family with two infants will be given boarding passes in one row , the cabin crew then will move one of the parents along with one of the infants to the other side of the row or to another row . Update : in some larger jets the set of seats in the middle ( 4 or 5 seats ) may have two extra oxygen masks , in that case two infants can accompany their parents in their laps .
In Europe , the question is covered by <URL> . Annex I , section 5.3 reads Baggage reconciliation Each item of hold baggage shall be identified as accompanied or unaccompanied . Unaccompanied hold baggage shall not be transported , unless that baggage has been either separated due to factors beyond the passenger 's control or subjected to appropriate security controls .
The latitude is less likely to matter than the time of the month . If it is at or near new moon , you will not see the moon at night . The " wrong side of the plane " reason can be seen as a subset of the " small window " reason , so I would say it is a combination of the small window ( combined with the plane 's orientation ) and the point in the lunar cycle at which you are flying . To improve your chances of seeing the moon in the future , fly during or near the full moon , and , if you have an east-west flight , sit on the port ( left ) side of the plane in the Northern Hemisphere , or the starboard ( right ) side of the plane in the south . If you are flying from west to east , reverse that . The full moon will be lower in the sky near the summer solstice ( late June in the north ; late December in the south ) . It will rise later and set earlier , too . If you try to see the full moon in the winter , near midnight , it is likely to be too high , unless you are very close to the pole . If you are flying a north to south route near the full moon , the moon will be in the east ( to your left ) in the early evening , overhead near midnight , and to the west ( right ) as dawn approaches . Again , if you are flying from south to north , reverse that . To see a dramatic crescent moon , fly a few days after the new moon on a route where you can look west just after sunset . Or , fly a few days before the new moon on a route where you can look east just before sunrise .
It actually is odd that the carrier chose to do this but it 's quite simple though not very well explained on the Greyhound Website . When you look at <URL> site it becomes clear . Instead of one connection in Buffalo , you actually have 2 in Syracuse and Buffalo even though the bus schedule number/route number does n't change in Syracuse .
While mathematically , your logic is sound , the answer is almost always no . Basically , they 're not going to measure everything out . 3.4 oz ( or 100ml for simpler numbers ) - what if you have 98ml or 95ml ? They do n't have the time or the inclination to measure all to say ' yes you 're under 100ml ' . As a result , it 'll be on the bottle size . Source : personal experience , when they 've confiscated multiple almost-empty bottles from me :( Also : <URL> <URL> Liquids , gels , and aerosols must be in containers that are 3.4 ounces ( 100 ml ) or smaller . Note that larger , half-full containers are not allowed . and : <URL> Note , the container itself must be 3 oz . or less ; a 4 oz . container that is half-full will not be allowed through the security checkpoint .
Dont know about Dubai , but Qatar ID Number is of 11 digits . First digit will be 2 , if you are born in 20th Century i.e. on or before 2000 . 3 if you are born after . 2nd &amp; 3rd digit is your birth year in yy format . 4th , 5th , 6th digit is your nationality code , same for same country . Last five is your sequence number of entering country first time , with somebody entering at 01 Jan 00:01 will be 00001 . So , no , two work visa numbers for two different persons will not be same . Although same person re-entering Qatar after getting first visa cancelled will get same number as earlier . Note that this applies to Qatar ID Numbers . The temporary visa you need to enter and get the RP process completed may be totally different .
I am no definite expert on the topic but this customization of a flight , called <URL> , are usually marketed to travel agents as a profit generator . First let 's clarify the different actors . The airlines offer and operate flights , the GDS ( Global Distribution System ) companies distribute the flights to travel agents and the latter sell to the traveller ( you ) . The travel agents can be your local travel agent in his office , the online travel agent ( OTA ) like Expedia , Opodo or Kayak , or the airline itself through its website , phone service or offices . In all cases the travel agent <URL> to the customer . The travel agent probably pays to implement the service distribution ( to the GDS ) and receives a fee per transaction made . As meal selection is not generally a lucrative option - it is usually free of charge and I think religious or allergic people would react badly if they had to pay to get a specific meal - it is not worth offering for the travel agents . As @drat commented , the airlines have also little incentives ( and higher logistic costs ) to offer them . So it makes sense not to offer meal choice directly online . Note that some OTAs offer a free text field at the end of the booking without promising it will be read by anyone ( I have seen that on govoyages , for example ) . In the case of Emirates and Singapore Airlines , I have in mind that their image is based on open-mindedness , globalization and respect of the culture of the travellers . I insist on the fact that it is the image I have , you might not feel the same . But offering a choice of meal is a good marketing argument for a world-wide growing airline . On the opposite , Air Transat mostly targets Canadians visiting the Caribbean and transatlantic travellers , with less of a variety of travellers . Offering a large variety of meals would be more a burden than a marketing argument to them . And Air Transat offers ancillary services on their website like seat selection , so it is a deliberate choice not to offer meal selection . In the end , I suppose that the reasons are economical . It costs less to offer less choice and not to prepare too many meals . It depends on the travel agent you buy your tickets from , but there is no rule for who offers meal selection or does not . If it matters a lot , you can try to buy your ticket from another travel agent , it might work better .
For the most part , the 3.4 oz rule is n't strictly enforced , in the sense that they do n't normally physically check ever single container you have to make sure that it 's less than 3.4 oz . If it 's significantly larger than 3.4 oz they will normally be able to see that on the X-ray , and will physically inspect it . As an example , I travel with a can of spray deodorant that is around 4oz , but is only labeled with " 100g " , where other cans of the same product are labeled as " 4oz ( 100g ) " . To date , having gone through airport security probably over 100 times ( incl 5 times in the past 3 days ) I 've had them manually inspect it exactly twice . So if what you 're traveling with is close to 3.4 oz , you 're probably fine . However , if they decide to look at it , and it 's over 3.4 oz , then you 'll almost certainly lose it . It 's up to you whether it 's worth the risk/cost of losing whatever it is you 're trying to take through . If it 's a 4oz tube of toothpaste it 's a different answer than if it 's a 5oz bottle of $ 200 perfume !
There are locations that fly to LHR that do not conform to international norms regarding international safety . Lagos , Nigeria , for example , does not conform to certain protocols , and Therefore is not considered secure . Rather than ferreting out individual flights , it is considered prudent simply to screen all passengers again .
Officially the " Minimum Connection Time " for United Domestic - > United International at SFO is 45 minutes , and as you 're above this it is still what is considered a " legal " connection . However all this really means is that if you miss your connection the airline is responsible for finding you a seat on a later SFO-LHR flight . It does n't mean that you 'll make your connection , nor does it mean that the airline will cover any additional expenses such as hotels during the delay , etc ( They might , but it depends on the cause of the delay ) . As both of your flights are on United you do NOT need to re-clear security at SFO , nor do you need to collect your bags as they will be checked all the way through from LAS to LHR . Presuming that your LAS-SFO flight has a flight number below 2000 then you inbound flight will arrive in Terminal 3 , and your outbound flight will leave from the International Terminal G . These two terminals are connected by an air-side walkway , and depending on which gates you land at and depart from it will be in the 10-15 minute range to walk for an average person . If your inbound flight is a flight number above 6000 then it will arrive in Terminal 1 . There is an air-side bus from Terminal 1 to Terminal G , but depending on how busy the bus is it could take up to 20 + minutes to get between the two terminals and to your gate . Your outbound flight will start boarding around around 45 minutes before departure , and technically you need to be at the gate 30 minutes before departure time , although realistically 10-15 mins is normally the minimum - any later and you risk losing your seat . So basically , if everything goes right and your inbound flight is on time then you 'll have no trouble making your connection . You probably wo n't have enough spare time for anything other than a very quick bathroom break , but it 's doable . However if your inbound flight is delayed even a little - which is not uncommon on LAS-SFO flights , especially if it 's a morning flight - then you will likely miss your connecting flight . Depending on the time of year there are only 1 or 2 direct SFO-LHR flights per day on United , so the impact of missing your flight is very high - most likely an up to 24 hour delay ! If it were me , I would be changing to an earlier LAS-SFO flight . United is normally very happy to do this when there has been a schedule change . In this case as the ticket was booked via an agency and as a codeshare they may not be willing to assist , but I would start with them presuming you can conveniently call them . Otherwise talk to EBookers and ask them to arrange the change . In cases like this it 's normally best to know exactly what you want before calling ( eg , you want flight UAxxx from LAS-SFO rather than your existing UAyyyy ) .
First of all , <URL> is very big thing , so address in the Taiga is n't much helpful for you :) Secondary , my apologies about some information is only in Russian , especially maps . The Curch of the Last Testament has their village in the <URL> . Their site is very old , and the only thing working there is the <URL> . Also they have <URL> , and there is the <URL> . <URL> is : 662925 , Krasnoyarsk Krai , Kuraginsky District , d. Petropavlovka , ul . Kolhoznaya , d. 9 . Please note that Tiberkul is named after <URL> , which is situated in 130 kilometers from Kuragino ( district center ) and in 30 kilometers from Cheremshanka village . Other villages near the lake are : Tagasuk , Zharovsk , Gulyaevka . According <URL> and <URL> , the roads to the lake is available ONLY IN WINTER - on snow ( from Gulyaevka and Cheremshanka ) . In other time , you can get there only by two methods : helicopter local citizens 's tankets and tractors :) Also <URL> is some information about some club in <URL> , which regulary goes to the lake on their off-roaders , but this is quite uncertain .
According to <URL> , the FAQ says no : I 'm traveling with my family ; can they also use the TSA Pre ✓ ® lane ? Family members ages 12 and under traveling with an eligible parent or guardian with a TSA Pre ✓ ® indicator on their boarding pass can participate in expedited screening . Family members 13 and older must go through standard security lanes or should apply for a DHS trusted traveler program . I know your question is n't about family , but ' travel companions ' , but seeing as they do n't even allow family members over 13 to join you on your KTN , it can safely be assumed by a reasonable person ( and yes , I know we 're talking TSA here , irony noted ) that a non-family member would also not be eligible to travel under your KTN .
India had tried to curb unauthorized trading between these countries by requesting they ban them . However , as of 2013 , <URL> . <URL> also banned it for similar reasons . However , as of January 2015 , the <URL> . So yes , that used to be the law , and it was to curb unauthorised trading , but that ban has now been lifted officially .
Like in many other cities the normal taxi is a car for 5 people ( a driver and 4 passengers . ) It 's possible that some taxi drivers have n't a problem with transporting an extra passenger , when this is a young child . In your case I recommend to you order a special taxi ahead of time by phone . Here are a list of some taxi companies : CNTD - Central Nacional de Táxis Digital +351 21 844 6202 Autocoope - Cooperativa De Táxis De Lisboa , Crl . +351 21 793 2756 Retális - Rádio Táxis de Lisboa +351 21 811 9000 In my personal experience with taxi drivers in Lisbon ( and I 'm a Portuguese speaker ) it is quite common for the driver to take advantage of the passenger .
but [ tipping ] is meant to be for a good job Yes , in theory , but in practice it 's standard to ( almost ) always leave a tip . Even if the service is merely " bad " , then you generally leave a tip on the low end of the scale . If it really is appalling ( ie , they got your order completely wrong , or were excessively slow for no good reason ) , then you leave a very low tip ( ie , 5 % ) , or leave the 1-cent tip if you want to send a pointed message . I think I 've only ever done that once or twice ( and I eat at restaurants a lot ) . It 's not legal to pay staff less than the minimum wage excluding tips , so that 's not really the issue . However , minimum wage ( in the United States ) is <URL> ( $ 7.25 / hr ) compared to other countries like <URL> ( $ 10 + ) and <URL> ( $ 16 ) . And then , service staff are often paid on the low end of the scale , despite the relatively difficult nature of the work . So it 's a sign of respect to tip generously as a policy ; and there is a stigma attached to being too cheap , for which poor tipping is presumed evidence .
end question
start question
Is it more expensive to buy airplane tickets around Christmas ?
According to <URL> of 1.5 billion domestic airfares over almost 5 million trips the answer is no , it is not more expensive to buy at Christmas simply because it is Christmas . The price fluctuates considerably with a sweet spot of cheap stability seen " one to four months out " . You may well have seen the price increase , but given the degree of change they have observed this is a normal part of the process and is not associated with the time of year .
Without getting into the philosophical paradoxes inherent in asking about " the most expensive free trip " , I 'm pretty sure the longest duration &amp; distance that you can pull off with an Opal card in a single day without backtracking is Goulburn , NSW to Scone , NSW by train : <URL> This clocks in at a cool 513.54 km per the <URL> and would take you just short of 8 hours ( 7h 57min , to be precise ) with a single connection at Central . Farewise , though , any distance beyond 65 km is charged the same , so it 's just $ 8.30 for the whole trip . Since Opal cards max out at $ 15/day , it 's not possible to get more financial benefit than this out of any itinerary . Because you 're charged every time you transfer , it 's quite easy to hit the $ 15 mark , even on much shorter journeys ( say , Circular Quay-Manly return at $ 14.36 plus any trip anywhere ) .
First off , it 's never going to be ' cheap ' , unfortunately . There are a few reasons for this . ( * these prices correct as of November 2010 ) The Base If you fly , there 's no way around the fixed fare of USD$ 420 to fly return from Quito or Guayaquil . Then there 's the $ 100 National Park entrance fee . And another $ 10 for taxes . So we 'll ignore all that and just call that the ' base ' , and focus on the rest being cheaper ... A lot seem to focus on the cruise you 'll " need " to do . That 's not always the case . From <URL> : The airport beside Santa Cruz is on a small nearby island in the north side called Baltera , and from here you must get a 50 cent ferry across , then a $ 3 bus down south to the town . Once in town , it 's very easy to set yourself up with a $ 20 private hotel room with A/C and TV , and even Wifi ! Even out here in the middle of the Pacific ocean you remain connected to your Facebook Wall posts ! ( or GlobeNotes obviously ! ) The volcanic island of Isabella is about 2 hours by boat from Santa Cruz , and boats leave daily for only $ 25-30 . Bear in mind that boats only leave Santa Cruz at 2pm , and then leave Isabella only at 6am , so an overnight is required . Many people have told me that , with these two islands ( Isabella alone being 52 % of the total Galapagos landmass ) you can actually see MOST of the wildlife that you see on the far off islands that require cruises , the main exception being red-footed boobies and a few other bird species which are only found on the remote islands . Giant-Tortoise , Sea lions , Penguins , and TONS of Iguana . You name it . . you can see them all within about 15 min boat ride from the coast of either Isabella or Santa Cruz . Score ! It 's worth noting that according to <URL> : If you are planning to visit the Galapagos Islands , Guayaquil is the cheapest place to take a flight from . There are three air carriers that will take you across the Galapagos Islands as well as the Ecuadorean mainland , LAN-ECUADOR <URL> , Aerogal <URL> and TAME [ 5 ] have non stop daily flights , departing from Guayaquil is cheaper than leaving from Quito ( Is closer and most of the Quito flights do make an stop at Guayaquil 's airport for Refueling and picking up passengers . International departure airport tax was just recently increased in Guayaquil and is exactly $ 29.75 ( January 2010 ) . About 15 $ cheaper than Quito airport . Now , once you 're in Quito or Guayaquil , there are two sides to consider with tours . One - the travel agents will often claim the best tours are gone months in advance . Certainly some will be , but I 've NEVER hard of a person disappointed with their tour , no matter when they booked it . However , I have heard of some FANTASTIC deals bought on the ground in Quito . When staying at the <URL> in Quito , the <URL> downstairs was very closely linked with the hostel , offering free city tours and salsa lessons and the like . In addition , they were able to advise people about Galapagos options . I heard of people getting final berths on 5-star boats for the equivalent of paying 2 days for 7 , others getting discounted meals , and they were all booked in Quito or Guayaquil . So in conclusion , it 's hard to say for certain whether things are cheaper on the ground , but from anecdotal opinions , my experience , and the very reason tour companies exist in these cities , is that it is possible to beat prices when on the ground . And of course , this will flex with seasonal trends - more likely to get bargains in low season .
While ( as I commented above ) this is highly subjective , let me give you some general calculation : Your 3000 EUR are roughly 390 ' 000 Yen . The very very decent version I chose the <URL> for location and took the smallest single room there for 15 ' 500 per day ( 16 ' 500 on Sundays ) for overall 218 ' 000 Yen . If have breakfast in a Sarbucks you spend about 1000 Yen , so another 14 ' 000 Yen is gone . Let 's take 1 ' 500 Yen for lunch , so 21 ' 000 Yen for the week and good quality 8 ' 000 Yen for dinner in average which makes 112 ' 000 Yen . All in all this will make 365 ' 000 Yen . This will leave you with 25 ' 000 Yen for subways and souvenirs etc. . The issue here is that you might run into taking taxis ( no trains late at night ) which are somewhat expensive and other stuff , so you might run into a shortage in the end . Careful planning is important on this budget . Also taxes etc might be a very tight fit for this but if you manage your costs properly and balance a bit for some days you can have a very decent high-class stay in Japan for 3k Eur . The budget version Cheaper version would be a cheaper hotel like the <URL> for about 6 ' 000 a night coming to 86 ' 000 for the 14 nights.Breakfast at a convenience store for 500 Yen ( 7 ' 000 ) , a budget lunch for another 1 ' 000 ( 14 ' 000 ) and a much more reasonable dinner for 5 ' 000 ( 70 ' 000 ) will get you there with 177 ' 000 Yen spent . You can check some average prices in restaurants <URL> and <URL> to get an overview . Note : There is <URL> for Tokyo Metros . The minimum is 1 month and costs 17 ' 300 Yen - which does not make sense for you .
The only time you 'd expect most stores to be closed is on december 24th at night . Other days you probably find local small restaurants to be closed , but those restaurant franchises at big malls or plazas are more likely to be open . I live in Monterrey , but I believe other mexican border cities are pretty much like this .
I ca n't speak specifically to Lufthansa , but with some experience on other airlines - if you change your flight on a saver-style fare , you pay a change fee and the difference between the fares . If you are close to the date of travel the saver fares are generally sold out , so you are paying the difference between saver and flexi , and often a " we 've got limited seats " premium on top of that because of airline yield management , e.g. buying six months out may save you 500 euros or more compared to a change two weeks out . Looking at Lufthansa 's website , the same flight is 2,146 euros in two weeks time , so using that and your totals as an example , a late change might result in overall payment of : Obviously this is substantially more than the 1,300 euros for purchasing a flexi fare to begin with .
Yes , and <URL> . They 're not liquids , flammable or on any of the TSA unapproved lists , so you 're totally fine to take them . However , remember they 're meant to be stored at room temperature as they are still medical devices you do n't want to take risks with damaging them . Do n't store them with sharp items in your carry-on ( even pens etc ) . If your laptop or phone gets really warm , it 's best not to have them side-by-side either . However , there are also stories of travellers being detained <URL> , where they were accused of being working girls ( ! ) , so ... all things considered , it might be better to just get some at the destination .
It 's a generally accepted fact that the Scandinavian countries are the most expensive places to travel . But personally , having travelled a lot within Europe and within Scandinavia , I do n't think it 's SO much more expensive in comparison to the rest of Europe . Where prices differ is generally when it comes to alcohol ( much more expensive ) , junk food/convenience food and eating out . If you 're willing to buy your own food ( and eat a lot of veg and not so much meat ) and stay in the most basic hostels then the price difference is negligible . Public transport is in some places cheaper than in other parts of Europe . But at the same time remember that you can expect to be paying 10kr ( $ 1.8 ) for a can of coke . A beer can be anywhere upwards of 50kr , often as high as 80-90kr . The tap water is great though , so drinking should not be a problem . If you 're really careful you can probably get by on 6-700kr per day . Do n't buy any fast food or junk food , this will really hit you in the wallet . e : A slightly funny way of measuring relative expensiveness is the Big Mac Index : <URL> This is the Norwegian hostelling international website , membership is very much worth it in my experience : <URL> You can get accomodation for as cheap as 220/night even in summer if you 're lucky .
I am not sure which sites you have tried , but if you buy your ticket directly from the <URL> , you seem to get everything you want : If you order a seat reservation , you can also select exactly which seat you want . You will be shown a drawing of the carriage , so that you can see where the tables are and which seats are free . You can have the ticket sent to an e-mail address , or also get a reservation code to pickup your ticket at a DSB ticket counter or one of their ticket machines in Copenhagen .
According to the <URL> , the park is closed from mid-September to April and the Christmas market was discontinued in 2009 . The <URL> supports this - it shows the park as open every day in August , only Thrusday to Sunday in September , and only concert events ( which are held on the premises while the rest of the park is closed ) afterwards .
Michael gave you some pretty common destination so I 'm going to add some less touristy but awesome places around Milan . Since I love lakes I would suggest you a visit around the many lakes you can find in the area , Lake Garda being probably the most famous one . <URL> What to do <URL> It is where the Italian writer Gabriele d'Annunzio lived after his defenestration in 1922 until his death in 1938 . The estate consists of the residence of d'Annunzio called the Prioria ( priory ) , an amphitheatre , the light cruiser Puglia set into a hillside , a boathouse containing the MAS vessel used by D'Annunzio in 1918 and a circular mausoleum . <URL> and <URL> <URL> is surely worth a visit among with <URL> . <URL> Verona is a pretty nice and small city which was awarded the World Heritage Site . The city itself is beautiful and there 's the famous amphitheatre and well . . the balcony of Juliet , of course , among many others thing you may want to visit . One option you may consider is to stay somewhere in Verona or Desenzano and then do day trips to the places I listed ( or others you have found yourself ) . You may also consider to ride a bike so you wo n't be bus-bounded ( even tho the bus system in that area works pretty well ) . <URL> is the official site for trains schedule . Milano - Verona is about 1h 20mins and it runs pretty frequently . A ticket is around 20 $ . The area around <URL> is also very beautiful and closer . Honestly , tho , If you have never been to <URL> , I would spend the five days there since five days are perfect to really start to get to know the city , not just the most crowded touristy places . If you are lucky you can find hostels for about 20 $ / night but you better book in advance . After visiting the most famous places just roam around the city and get lost , go to Castello , Dorsoduro , sestieri where people hang out the clothes outside ( well , probably not with these weather :) ) far from all the tourists . Venice is also pretty safe so roaming around night ( less tourists as a bonus ) it 's highly recommended . Do n't be afraid to get lost in those small calli , it 's totally awesome . I love to just walk and look around and Venice is a good place to practice this degeneration but I do n't know if it 's the same for you . If you are more for a quick visit to the touristy places than you may want to stay in Venice two to three days and then move somewhere else . If you are on a tight budget you may want to consider grab some food at the grocery store instead of going to the restaurant ( eating something reasonably good for a reasonable price in Venice it 's very difficult ) . Grocery stores that I know are : <URL> <URL> ( in Italian but pretty easy to figure out the address ) Local dishes you may want to try are : <URL> Cotoletta alla milanese ( milanese after its place of origin , Milan ) is a fried cutlet similar to Wiener schnitzel , but cooked " bone-in " . It is fried in clarified butter or olive oil [ 1 ] and traditionally uses exclusively milk-fed veal . <URL> Risotto alla milanese is made with beef stock , beef bone marrow , lard ( instead of butter ) and cheese , flavored and colored with saffron . <URL> <URL>
Yulong Mountain in Yunnan Province , Xiling Snow Mountain Ski Resort in Sichuan Province . Maybe some of the other mountains in those two provinces as well .
See <URL> . From <URL> , on why it happens : Airfare pricing is extremely complicated and often an airline has the choice of running certain segments at a loss by discounting seats , or a bigger loss by flying mostly empty with higher fares . They need to get their planes back into the more profitable positions on their route map , so they discount heavily only when they have to , and they 'll balance that with profits on routes that other airlines are n't bothering with at all . So perhaps at this time of year , Bangalore to Mumbai can be easily discounted for a small loss by the airline , and then get more bodies onto the pricier flights , making them always have full planes there , and this works out as less of an issue for them than just making the Mumbai - > Denver routes cheaper . Sometimes when the last segment is the pricey one , and you 're only going to say , B instead of C , on a A-B-C route , it 's sometimes cheaper to buy the longer , cheaper flight and throw away the last ticket . Of course , this does n't work if you need to get to C . We have several questions on this ( search throwing away , or not taking tickets ) . As an example , a friend bought a Bolivia - > Chile return flight , because it was cheaper than the one-way flight . He just threw away the second ticket :) Airlines do frown on it , however ... I also recommend that <URL> article on Hidden Ticketing for a longish read anyway , it 's quite eye-opening .
<URL> , it 's 54 days in advance . At least in 2013 it was . Quoting the article , [ They ] monitored 4,191,533 trips . For each trip -- that is , a flight from city A to city B on a specific date with a specific trip length -- we looked at prospective fares over about a 10 1/2 month booking window , ranging from 320 days in advance , to 1 day in advance , including every possible booking date in between . It adds up to a database of 1.3 billion air fares -- and a serious headache for those who were tasked with making sense of it !
I will only be in London for 2 days and plan to take the tube no more than 2 or 3 times , so it does n't make much sense to buy an oystercard . You can buy single journey paper tickets for the tube , but they strongly discourage it through pricing . I just looked up a zone 1 tube fare and it was # 2.40 on oyster but # 4.90 on a paper ticket . At those prices even if you do n't get your card deposit back ( or you get the visitor card with it 's non-refundable charge ) it does n't take very many journeys for oyster to beat paper tickets . Another option is to use a contactless credit/debit card but if you have a non-UK card beware of foreign transaction fees . Also note that while you can use paper single tickets on the tube you ca n't use them on busses in london . Your only options there are oyster , contactless and travelcards . ( I read there is an activation cost and you wo n't get a full refund if you use it for such a short time ) . There are two types of oyster card . Regular cards and visitor cards . Regular cards have a # 5 refundable deposit , visitor cards have a # 3 non-refundable " activation fee " . The visitor card can only be obtained outside london . Regular cards can be obtained at any tube station . The visitor card comes with a few special offers for london attactions that the regular card does n't but otherwise the cards are much the same . AIUI with cash at a machine you can top up any ammount down to the smallest coins the machine will take while if you pay by card at a machine or pay at a ticket office the minimum top-up is # 5 . Getting the deposit and remaining credit refunded used to require dealing with a manned ticket office but it seems it 's now possible to do it at a ticket machine .
No , there are multiple zones , mostly you have to cross from one zone to another , hence pay more . Here 's the metro zone map : They sell <URL> , you need two units ( tickets ) if you 're traveling within a single zone , three units when in two zones ( e.g. from A to B ) and four if you 're traveling between three zones . The easiest way would be getting the tickets at stations , there are vending machines and also sometimes cashiers selling those tickets .
I 'm not aware of any carrier here that offers the kind of service you need . Most of them have an " unlimited " traffic options but after a certain threshold of GBs what happens is that you can still navigate the web but with a MUCH slower speed . Your best bet is to subscribe for ADSL and then unsubscribe it before leaving but you have to be VERY careful because you may need to unsubscribe with some kind of forewarning . The most important carriers in Italy are : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
As noted elsewhere , you can not take the price of a single itinerary on a single route on a single date and make conclusions about rail travel on a single service compared to rail travel on an entire continent . Even if you could , it would not hold . I tried some bookings for 27 February at 0800 . Amtrak 's Acela Express would be $ 78 . SNCF quotes me 70 EUR ( ~ 96 USD ) for Paris to Brussels , DB quotes me 59 EUR ( ~ 81 USD ) for Hamburg to Berlin , and a Hikari train on the Tokaido Shinkansen from Shizuoka to Shinagawa is 6,180 JPY ( ~ 61 USD ) . But on a short trip like this , there is no reason to take the Acela , as the Northeast Regional is almost as fast , and would only cost $ 36 . But Amtrak costs what it does fundamentally because the price of transportation depends on supply and demand . While the balance can be distorted by things like subsidies , the constraints on both explain why a flight from DC to New York costs as much as a flight from DC to Los Angeles , even though it is only one-tenth the distance . And in this respect , Amtrak remains broadly competitive with other modes of transportation along the NEC . Ten years ago I never took Amtrak ; why would I when I could get from Downtown DC to Midtown Manhattan , door to door , within 3 hours , for $ 116 round trip on the Shuttle ? Nowadays , with more rigorous airport security , capacity reductions , higher fuel prices , and transit service cuts among things , I would allot at least 4 1/2 hours and $ 340 . To drive would also take 4-5 hours , and entail almost $ 60 in tolls and $ 50 in gasoline , plus the stress of driving I-95 and the New Jersey Turnpike and then finding parking . So Amtrak offering me a round trip for $ 260 is compelling . ( yes , there is the bus as well , but it 's as uncomfortable as the plane and as slow as Amtrak and as dangerous as driving , so naturally you should expect a discount . ) And while Amtrak does not practice price discrimination as ruthlessly as the airlines do , this may partly explain why your NLC-BOS ticket seems overpriced : they do n't want someone riding NLC-BOS if they can sell the same seat for more profit to a NYP-BOS passenger .
I guess while pens in theory could be used to cause pain , as could some types of shoes or household keys , and they 're allowed . I assure you , you 'll have zero problem taking an ordinary ballpoint or ink pen ( or pencil ) on a flight - unless you have some weird pen in the shape of a dagger or something :)
Update : Good news , when you load the official page , you 'll now see that they accept VISA payments . As a result , you can now buy advance tickets from outside of Peru directly with the website . However , there are still many other ways to do this . I 'd recommend <URL> for sources on how to do it . There are numerous online tour agencies that you can pay to get you tickets . Once you 're in Cusco , you can buy a tour then if you 're doing one of the trails . Once you 're in Aguas Calientes ( final stop on the train route ) , you can buy tickets there . You can even buy tickets at the last second at the gate when you arrive at Machu Picchu . So do n't despair , there are plenty of other ways to achive your dream of going :)
end question
start question
Is a No Objection Certificate really needed when applying for a UK visa ?
There is a long-standing principle at UKVI to avoid stipulating that a given piece of evidence is mandatory ; it means the guidelines are purposefully vague . As spelled out in the <URL> , the only mandatory requirements are ... A ' valid ' passport or some other ' valid ' identity document ( but ' valid ' is vague ) The fee From that law they created a policy that the passport be current with a blank page and that it be accompanied by a photo . Everything else is expressed with modal verbs , most often " should " and " may " . Having said all of that , let 's look at your question ... My company 's HR are ready to give employment proof , but not the info related to time off work . Is it mandatory ? While not mandatory it is a great idea to include something that shows you have accrued enough holiday for your visit . Lots of people on the Indian subcontinent interpret this as a No Objection Certificate ( NOC ) or a variant document and it has vectored on the net as a requirement . Your employment contract should spell out your holiday entitlement , include it . Your salary slips should list your unspent entitlement , include them . If they do not show your unspent entitlement , find something else that does . If the above will not work for one reason or another , you can make a personal attestation about your unspent entitlement . You need good credibility in order for that to work and you will need to explain why that info is n't in any of your employment documents . I heard that it is needed only for people who are working in government sectors . Kindly confirm this too . There is no reason to confirm or deny it ; as explained , the concept of a requirement is simply one that has vectored on the net . Any other sort of evidence is fine . Note that NOC 's are fairly unique to the subcontinent anyway . We can take a look at the <URL> itself . Examine the screen shot ... <URL> Based on this , it is safe to conclude that your company is providing what UKVI wants to see . And finally , from your question : " ... confirming that I have been give time off work and asked me to state whether this time off is paid or unpaid ... " This appears to be something you added independently ( probably somewhere on the net having to do with Indian nationals ) ; sometimes it 's great to include that information , but it is absolutely not mandatory .
According to the <URL> : Citizens of the following countries ( holders of Regular Passports ) are exempted from UAE visa : [ France is in this list ] It should be noted that this list may change vary slightly from time to time and it is therefore best to check with your local UAE embassy or the airline that you are using to fly to the UAE . If you do NOT fall into one of the above categories , you will require a visa and a sponsor for your visit . The sponsor normally applies for the visa on your behalf . In short , you can leave the airport if you have sufficient time or you can stay at the airport . Either way , as a French citizen , you do n't need to prepare any documentation before travelling .
How does UK Visa application define a dependent ? It does n't . These types of questions reveal one of the strategies in drafting the rules ; they are vague in some places by design and intent . There is no precise definition for " dependent " in the corpus of the visitor rules , and even august authorities that nail down everything like <URL> and <URL> do not offer precision about the term " dependent " ( within the visitor domains ) . So in the absence of a definition with a legislative pedigree , we have to resort to the ' best practices ' advice for the generic case covering all ambiguities : I 'm not sure in which one should I fill up our details . You select the most appropriate according to how you interpret " dependent " and proceed . If you have doubts , you can complete both sections . They are not going to refuse on grounds of filling out the wrong section as long as all the information is represented somewhere . Take care that there 's a HUGE risk of refusal because your father is trying to take two adults with no palpable ties to their home country who may follow the pattern of going underground and making foreign remittances to their family ( and I 'm guessing that will be the outcome , but that 's just a guess ) . It means you may be focusing on the wrong things . In both cases , what supporting documents would we need in our individual applications . Happily , the answer here is canonically clear . It 's spelled out in the guidance documents : <URL> and the <URL> . Everything is there ( with some exceptions noted <URL> ) . Also canonically , if you are worried about the quality of your evidence , stay off the net and arrange a consultation with a <URL> . Note that " child " on the other hand , is the subject of both <URL> and <URL> . It is a minor 18 and under . In terms of claiming a child , the simplest case is where both distaff and spear side lineage is explicitly identified on the birth certificate , but many more complex cases are acceptable to ECO 's . Standard Visitor Visa applications will fail if the lineage is unclear , and unknowing parents have been snagged with refusals they were not expecting .
Nope . For new visas , you only ever need your active , current passport - specifically ( if you have two or more citizenships ) , the passport you intend to travel to the country ( in this case Japan ) on . You may be asked for other documentation - e.g. proof of funds , accommodation and so on , but you wo n't need the past passports . They 're considered invalid documents for the purpose of acquiring a visa . Edit : Included <URL> .
In general , the airline wo n't let you get on the plane . If you are refused entry to a country upon arrival , it is the airline 's responsibility to return you to your place of origin , so they have an interest in confirming that you hold the correct visa for your destination ( if required ) . Airlines frequently use a system called <URL> for this : IATA Timatic is the industry standard used by airlines and travel agents to verify passengers travel document requirements for their destination and any transit points . Airlines use this information to ensure their customers are compliant with border control rules and regulations . Timatic delivers personalized information based on the passenger 's destination , transit points , nationality , travel document , residence country etc. . It is your responsibility to make sure you have the required visa for your destination . The airline is unlikely to offer you a refund if you show up for departure with no visa .
Overall , this is seen to be abusive because you are attempting to get more leave than was issued to you ( whether you intended to or not ) . The controlling technical reference for your question is found in Paragraph 30C of the <URL> which says ... An Immigration Officer may cancel an entry clearance which is capable of having effect as leave to enter if the holder arrives in the United Kingdom before the day on which the entry clearance becomes effective or if the holder seeks to enter the United Kingdom for a purpose other than the purpose specified in the entry clearance . You would be in breach on both conditions . What this means is that the Immigration Officer has the right to cancel your entry clearance and send you back to Australia to make a fresh application . They can also contact your sponsor and tell them you are attempting to abuse your YMS visa . I have seen it happen . The IO does not have to remove you if you have a convincing excuse . Acclimating yourself to the UK would be a weak excuse ( i.e. , " a purpose other than the purpose specified in the entry clearance " ) and looking for a flat will raise alarm bells ... Depending upon where you are located in the UK vis-a-vis the on-going roll out of the new ' right-to-rent ' regulations may affect the legality of a tenancy agreement . So while your strategy is not illegal , it is likely to be seen as abusive without a really good reason . And if they are not satisfied with your excuse , they can remove you . If they let you in on 10 August , you will need to leave the UK on 10 August two years hence to avoid overstaying ( even if your visa says 16 August ) . Update ... In commentary , you added that you hold a YMS visa and that you have ( prudently ) discussed the strategy with your sponsor . Your sponsor thinks a channel hopping strategy may work ; I 'm not necessarily in agreement and suggest they confirm it with their solicitor . For your second question , about asking the consulate to change your start date , it depends upon the information in your certificate . They may decide you need a new certificate or may adjust your start date . It 's impossible to accurately predict without seeing what your sponsor sent you .
No , you should not have to re-apply . From the <URL> Website : Your ESTA authorization is generally valid for multiple trips over a period of two years ( starting the date that you are approved ) or until your passport expires , whichever comes first * . This means that as long as you received an ESTA authorization to travel , you do not have to reapply during the validity period . If you are concerned , and assuming you will exit immigration and stay in the US before boarding your connecting flight , you can retrieve your application to check it 's validity and update your US address if necessary <URL> .
I believe if I book online and travelling to another Schengen country , I would not need to show ID and only the boarding ticket ? That depends on the airline 's policy ( and to some degree , the gate agent 's knowledge of that policy ) . The EU no longer requires that airlines check for their passengers ' identification so long as they do not check in luggage . Many airlines ( SAS , Norwegian ) do not care and do not check in line with regulation . Ryanair , however , systematically checks . I regularly fly between Sweden where I live , the Netherlands , Germany , Spain , and Italy and I never have to show my ID . But if the airline does ask ... However , as a whole , being in a different country without an ID is not recommended and as Alexander points out , some countries such as Spain and France do require you carry some form of identification at all times e.g. national id card or driver 's license
I do n't think the Family Visit Visa is an option for 2 reasons , based on the published <URL> . Reason 1 : Ineligible family relationship The list of people who can be visited under a Family visa is given as : spouse or civil partner children parents or siblings grandparents or grandchildren your spouse 's or civil partner 's siblings or parents your child 's spouse or civil partner step parents , step children or step siblings a person you 've been living with in a long-term relationship , as if you were married or in a civil partnership , for at least 2 years before the day you apply A cousin is none of those things . Reason 2 : Ineligible residency status The family member being visited must be one of : a British citizen settled in the UK granted asylum in the UK under humanitarian protection in the UK You 're not a British citizen , and I do n't think being in the UK on a short-term visa yourself counts as being " settled in the UK " . The other 2 options are presumably not relevant either .
Since you are a citizen of the European Union you do not need a visa to travel to any other EU country . UK is not part of the Schengen Area , so you only need a passport ( or national identity card ) to cross the border and that 's it . <URL> : Individuals from the following countries can enter the Schengen Area , Bulgaria , [ 3 ] Cyprus , [ 4 ] and Romania [ 5 ] without a visa : As of right , using a passport or national identity card - Citizens of European Union member states and their special territories
What that page means : if you need a Visa to the Schengen area and your first country to land is Iceland , do n't come to us , go to the Embassy of Denmark . You are exempt for -- what I presume -- a short visit but there are many more cases where you might need a visa . For example , what if you reside in the UK but hold a non-UK passport ? You might need a visa and noone can expect you to fly back to Kyrgyzstan or something just to pick up a visa . What if you want to work in the Schengen area or even immigrate to ? And so on . Edit : since you edited your question , Iceland does n't enter into this picture ! <URL> you are entering Schengen in Paris : If you are transiting through an airport in France to travel to another airport in France or the Schengen Area you enter the Schengen Area at your arrival airport in France . You pass border police control at this point . Unless you are exempt , you are required to have an entry and short-stay visa for the Schengen Area . So you are exempt but if someone else reads this answer , they might not be .
No , you do n't need a transit visa - as long as you do n't leave the transit lounge . But be sure about your change with airlines/planes , as there are two airports in Istanbul . You may read detailed information on the <URL> . Edit ( not by Mahmut ) to include extract from part of the referenced website : Question : I will be flying to Europe . I know that our aircraft will land in İstanbul . I am not planning to leave the transit lounge . Do I need to get transit visa ? Answer : If you will not leave the transit lounge at the airport you are not required to have transit visa . The above to attempt to clarify that in the above circumstances the nationality of the traveller appears irrelevant ( though so does " I will be flying to Europe " , and interlining of luggage is not covered by the extract ) .
So I ended up going to the source , <URL> . They 've just <URL> , saying that YES , they are transferable , and provided a <URL> : The link is basically instructions on use of one of these certificates , and from those instructions it 's merely a code , so not bound to any particular passenger .
On 24 April 2015 all existing visitor visas , including family visitor , business visitor , student visitor , child visitor , and others were automatically converted to the ' standard visitor visa ' . So yes , your father can go on a vaction to the UK or do any of the other activities listed in Appendix 3 ( Permitted Activities ) in <URL> of the rules . The controlling link if you are interested is the <URL> .
You will need to file separate DS-160 applications for your spouse , but the web site will make this a little easier for you . Once you complete your application , on the " Thank You " page there will be an option to create another application for your family member . When you choose this , it will automatically import some of the information from your form onto the next form , and so it will take less time to complete the second application . A further explanation is in the <URL> : When you select " Email Confirmation " on your Confirmation Page , you will be directed to a " Thank You " page . On the " Thank You " page you will see an option to create a family or group application . When you select this option , certain information from your application , such as destination , will automatically be imported to and displayed on a new application . Please note that if you use this option you must create an individual application for each family member or for each individual within the group . If one of the dependents has a different surname or nationality , for example , you can alter that data before submitting the application .
The answer to your question is yes you will need a transit visa but in Vienna rather than in Germany . According to <URL> you do n't need a visa since you 're a holder of the US Visa : Exceptions : Nationals from the above list are entitled to transit through the international transit zones without an airport transit visa : If they hold a valid visa for the United States of America According to the Austrian foreign ministry you as an Indian citizen would not have required a visa if you were staying within the <URL> . This however does n't apply in your case since your connecting flight is " domestic " so to speak , so a transit visa will be necessary for Vienna airport rather then Frankfurt .
General case -- yes , you can travel from the UK to France with just a national ID card . If you have one , that is . The UK does not issue ID cards to its citizens , so if you 're Her Majesty 's subject you 're out of luck . Passports and national ID cards are the only documents which are valid for travel . On the other hand , many other documents that are valid as IDs are not valid as travel documents ; these include , for example , drivers ' licenses and residence permit cards .
The only real problem you have is the stamps , they will take some space ! making your passport full faster than it should be . That 's the only problem you might have . Singapore is a business hub , some businessmen go there on weekly basis or even more than that . Just like Dubai . In addition to that , many airlines transit through there . So , going there more frequent is really ok . Last thing , you have an onward ticket with a very short layover , that 's enough proof of the " intention " of the visit . Really , nothing to worry about .
The general consensus on the web seems to be that <URL> : Go through a travel agent . Apply for a visa with the Chinese embassy in your home country . Go to Hong Kong and spend a few days waiting for the visa to be processed . According to <URL> , going via a travel agency will involve shipping your passport to a neighbouring country/republic with a Chinese embassy . If however you feel like going on a visa run in Hong Kong , note that <URL> of which 4 were needed to process the visa application . There seems to be a reliable travel agent , <URL> , with a desk at the airport just outside of immigration which can help with this type of procedures . Indeed , <URL> as the 2007 guy , dating 2013 , mentions this company and the straightforward visa application procedure .
Technically , you could , but not in every state . From <URL> : Who is eligible for a driver 's license or ID ? Any F , M or J nonimmigrant in lawful status may apply for a driver 's license or ID card , per state or territorial law . The nonimmigrant must present necessary supporting documents required to verify legal presence in the United States . For a list of required documents , see What documentation must a nonimmigrant present to the DMV ? [ ... ] [ ... ] When can a nonimmigrant apply for a driver 's license or ID ? Please be aware of the following timing requirements before applying for a driver 's license or ID : The Student and Exchange Visitor Information System ( SEVIS ) record must be in Active status when an F , M or J nonimmigrant applies for a benefit . A nonimmigrant with a record in any other status will not have success applying for a benefit . Wait at least ten calendar days from the date of entry into the United States before applying for a driver 's license or ID to allow time for arrival data processing . [ ... ] Wait at least two federal business days from the activation date in SEVIS to apply for a driver 's license or ID to ensure that the nonimmigrant 's Active status updates in all relevant databases . Several states require that a nonimmigrant have at least six months left on the Form I-20 , " Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status , " or Form DS-2019 , " Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange Visitor ( J-1 ) Status , " to be eligible for a driver 's license . Either consult with the state or territory 's DMV or visit its website to see if this is a requirement . In your case it 's down to the last point : do you need at least 6 months remaining on your visa in the state where you live ? EDIT : To find out whether you need the 6-months validity on your visa , simply contact your local DMV or call IL Department Of State Driver Services : Springfield : 217-782-6212 Chicago : 312-814-2975 Anecdotally , <URL> alludes that you do need the 6-months validity .
end question
start question
Cheapest and fastest land ways to travel from Cologne to Prague ?
If it has to be simultaneously cheap and time-saving , it will be hard to beat the plane . You may consider a trip by bus . It takes roughly 10 hours and is probably cheaper than the plane if you plan on a short notice . See e.g. here : <URL> 10 hours is also the duration of a day-time train , via Berlin . There are combined train/bus routes , via Nürnberg or Mannheim , sold by the Deutsche Bahn . Travel time is a bit less than 8 hours via Nürnberg and approximately 10 hours via Mannheim . If you book in advance and/or on less busy dates , these options can be quite cost effective . There is also a direct night train from Cologne to Prague . It is really time effective . You travel while you sleep . And if you book sufficiently in advance it will be pretty cheap ( also considering the fact that the train ticket includes the accommodation ) .
The only easy way to attain AA status is to have it gifted to you , either by the company or by another elite . Still , there are some avenues to shorten the climb . <URL> allow Executive Platinum members who earn 125,000 EQMs to gift AAdvantage Gold status to a friend for one year . A company enrolled in <URL> can redeem 2,400 points ( equivalent to $ 24,000 in spending ) to give Gold status to an employee . AA does not generally <URL> except some cases negotiated through corporate travel departments ; however , earlier this year they pounced on problems at United to poach some upper tier Premiers with matches . <URL> -- Each calendar year when you reach $ 40,000 in spending on purchases , you will earn 10,000 EQMs . This card is also sometimes promoted with a one-time signup bonus of 5,000 EQMs for new cardholders . Completing a <URL> is usually the easiest way to attain status quickly if you have travel already scheduled , particularly if in a premium cabin as the challenge is based on EQPs , not EQMs . Note that the challenge is only offered to attain a status , not to maintain it . AA periodically runs <URL> . If you 're a true mover-and-shaker , someone who is giving AA hundreds of thousands of dollars of business over the years in full fares , you may be invited to the <URL> program . Also , while the <URL> prepaid card no longer comes with status , it does come with Admirals Club membership and priority checkin/screening/boarding .
There 's a pretty good <URL> , and from that , it looks like the bus is a viable option : Dublin Airport is only 16 miles away . The airport is serviced by buses ( 41 , 41a , 41b , 41c ) which will take you into the city centre where you can transfer onto a bus to Dun Laoghaire . There is also a service called AirCoach , this service is run on coaches and will deliver you in comfort and speed to selected locations around the city . The Dart is also accessible using the AerDart service which takes you by bus to Killester Dart station . The first <URL> on Sundays leaves from Dublin Airport at 07:15 . How early are you arriving ? From the centre you can then take one of these towards Dun Laoghaire : 7 , 7a , 8 , 45a , 46a , 59 , 75 , 111 Some of these buses start between 7-8 , some only at 09:30 , and some do n't run at all on Sundays . For more details , you could try the <URL> . Regarding the price : from the <URL> site it 's not immediately clear if you can continue on the same ticket when changing to the Dun Laoghaire bus , but looking at the <URL> , it 's going to be quite cheap in every case ( compared to a taxi which would cost around $ 50 ) .
There are quite a few options in Tokyo for the budget conscious traveller and some of these are seasonally effected ( for both price and availability ) . じゃらん <URL> <URL> The first place most Japanese people I know ( as well as personally ) check is a site / app called じゃらん . じゃらん shows all hotels with vacancies including low cost business hotels all the way up to places like the Ritz Carlton . They also offer last chance details usually available up to the last check-in time of each individual establishment . Capsule hotels that show up are not representative of all existing establishments ( in the sense that a lot of capsule hotels do not advertise through it ) . Also じゃらん does not give you love hotels as an option ( although this can be cheap in a pinch ) . Standard Hotels A room in a standard hotel off-peak or one that has many vacancies can sometimes be cheap . Average Price ￥ 4000 ~ ￥ 8000 . ( NOTE : A standard hotel room ) Air B 'n' B Japan now has a semi-booming Air B 'n' B market where you can sometime snap a place really cheap . It is wise to note that there is somewhat of state of unrest with some normal residents who own adjacent houses because of the noise associated with many people moving in and out of a place . If possible get a hosted place as it usually comes with meals and is usually a house . Average Price ￥ 1500 ~ ￥ 8000 . ( NOTE : As domiciles are inherently different , the size of your room / apartments may vary drastically ) Business Hotels These usually offer a cheap room with a bed , TV and Wifi however showers / toilets are usually communal . Average Price ￥ 2000 ~ ￥ 7000 . ( NOTE : The room is usually the size of the bed + a small alcove ) Budget Hotels Usually have the off-peak rates of a standard hotel but all year round . The rooms are smaller and in some cases the showers are communal . Average Price ￥ 2000 ~ ￥ 5000 . ( NOTE : Expect a smaller than standard hotel size room with a Unit Bath / Shower ) Capsule Hotels These offer a capsule that has a bed , air-conditioning , TV and Wifi however showers / toilets are usually communal . Average Price ￥ 1500 ~ ￥ 5000 . ( NOTE : The capsule is usually slightly larger than the size of a person , is separated at the entry by only a curtain and may have a ladder to get to your capsule ) Hostels There are many cheap hostels available ( especially around Asakusa however they trend to be booked out 2-4 months in advance especially ahead of certain seasons . Most of the time these are shared dorms however there are usually facilities available to hold your valuables . Average Price ￥ 1000 ~ ￥ 4000 ( NOTE : Room size is sometimes large however you will most likely only get a bed surrounded by other people . Showers / bathrooms are often communal ) . Backpackers Japan does actually have an Association of Backpackers and Youth Hostels ( Not the official name ) and as such there are a few backpacker-specific lodgings around . They are quite hard to find and are usually quite similar to Hostels except there is a chance you may get your own room . Average Price : ￥ 1000 ~ ￥ 3500 ( NOTE : Room size could be either communal or similar in size to a business hotel . Showers / bathrooms are often communal ) . Couch Surfing Couch surfing is a possibility , however you may struggle to find a place . @fkraiem mentions the site <URL> however as I have not used it before I am not sure how reliable it may be . Your mileage may vary . Average Price : FREE ~ ￥ 2000 ( NOTE : As with Air B 'n' B , domiciles are inherently different and the size of your room / apartment may vary drastically ) . 24-Hour Open Public Spaces There are quite a large amount of 24-hour locations around Tokyo however Train Stations and Bus Stations are not usually included ( as most if not all of them close ) . Both Narita and Haneda Airports are for the most part open 24-hours a day however there are reports of being moved on by overzealous security guards ( or even kicked out of the building for a few hours ) . Some Convenience stores have a café attachment and are open 24 hours a day . Staying without purchasing anything will usually result in being asked politely to leave hence purchasing a small drink / snack is recommended . Average Price : FREE ~ ￥ 500 ( NOTE : You are sleeping on either an uncomfortable bench , seat or the floor . Showers / bathrooms are either non-existent or require a small fee ) . " Slumming It " By a newspaper / ask for some cardboard boxes from a supermarket , find a nice corner somewhere that is out of the weather , cover yourself in the boxes / get inside them and go to sleep . Carries a small risk of being assaulted / Robbed / Arrested . Use at your own risk . Strongly not recommended , but included to mention all options . Average Price : FREE ~ All of your money ( NOTE : You are sleeping in / under a cardboard box . There are no showers unless it rains and you are feeling game enough ) . This is by no means an exhaustive list and I shall add to it when I find more . Further , the prices listed are inductive of what I have paid previously ( in the past 3 years or less )
By public transport it 's little harder to get there , but yes , it is possible : 1 ) Go to Brno first . The easiest and most comfortable is by bus with the company <URL> ( it 's very popular transport - I recommend to buy a ticket in advance - you can do it online ) 2 ) Brno to Blansko by train and Blansko to Punkva caves by bus Search departures on <URL> ( there is English version ) Fill in : and enjoy beauties of Czech Republic ! :)
The ferry is essentially the only means of transport that was n't completely overloaded the last time . BART runs a few extra private buses , enough to accommodate 1 % of the 400,000 daily riders . And it 's only in the commute direction . Unfortunately , the Transbay tube is so efficient and so fast that there are n't a lot of good options from other transit providers . Perhaps the best option if the ferry is n't convenient is the " slug lines , " also known as <URL> . People who are traveling solo take on a few extra passengers to get the discount on the Bay Bridge . Obviously , you have to sit in traffic on the bridge , but the price is right . It sounds sketchy but is apparently very safe . As far as getting to the airport , you 're basically out of luck . You can take <URL> from <URL> and get off at the Millbrae station . That still leaves you 2.5 miles from the airport , but you should be able to get a cab from there , or walk if you 're up for it ( the bayfront area by the airport is pretty nice to walk along , but getting there is a slog from the Caltrain station ) . Also , Caltrain does n't run as often or as early as BART . Rental cars are n't cheap , but it may be worth making a refundable reservation in case you need it , and canceling before the deadline if the strike is called off .
Here is a map from gcmap.com showing all the airports near your target location that fly to London , UK . I chose that since almost anywhere will fly to London somehow . X marks your target location roughly . Which airport is best depends on where you are travelling from . There may be one or more stops from most of these airports , with DTW more likely to have a non-stop ( or actually be on the route to/from the other airports ) . <URL> I entered a random date searching for flights from FRA to DTW , XEC , YQG ( YQG has complications since it 's in Canada ) and it does seem that DTW is the only reasonable option . Looking on <URL> , a typical UberX price from DTW to Auburn Hills is stated as $ 45 - $ 58 . Google maps transport links to <URL> . However it 's looking like a 3-3 .5 hour journey to get to Auburn Hills rather than a 45 minute taxi ride . Are you interested in that ?
Unless you have some very specific document like a limited territorial validity Schengen visa , a récépissé for an asylum application or a temporary visa delivered to let you leave the country after receiving an obligation de quitter le territoire français , chances are you have the right to transit in another Schengen country with your French visa ( it 's the case for most long-stay visas -- work , student , family ... -- for example ) . But in any case Basel EuroAirport is entirely on French territory so you should not worry . In practice , half of the terminal building is designated as the " Swiss part " of the airport with a special road and parking area to reach it from Switzerland without having to complete customs formalities for France but it should not impact you , you can use the French/German/EU half to enter the airport , check in , etc. and proceed to the international transit area like you would in any other French airport . One thing you can not do however if you want to avoid setting foot on Swiss territory is take the train to Basel and the bus to the airport from there ( if memory serves , public transport connections are better from the Swiss side than from Mulhouse or Saint-Louis or wherever it is you can find a bus to the airport in France ) .
If it has to be simultaneously cheap and time-saving , it will be hard to beat the plane . You may consider a trip by bus . It takes roughly 10 hours and is probably cheaper than the plane if you plan on a short notice . See e.g. here : <URL> 10 hours is also the duration of a day-time train , via Berlin . There are combined train/bus routes , via Nürnberg or Mannheim , sold by the Deutsche Bahn . Travel time is a bit less than 8 hours via Nürnberg and approximately 10 hours via Mannheim . If you book in advance and/or on less busy dates , these options can be quite cost effective . There is also a direct night train from Cologne to Prague . It is really time effective . You travel while you sleep . And if you book sufficiently in advance it will be pretty cheap ( also considering the fact that the train ticket includes the accommodation ) .
Living in New Zealand and having had quite a lot of looks at flights to and from South America - for direct flights you have two options really - LAN Chile and Aerolineas Argentinas . LAN is more expensive but more reliable , and AA is ... the budget option . It was fine tho to fly with , once they actually took off . When they took off . There are sometimes ' cheap ' routes via LAX , Mexico City and down , or LAX , Houston and then down as well .
Recently while planning my trip to Cambodia , Laos and Vietnam , I did a little research : I am not sure about direct buses from Siem Reap . However , Stueng Traeng is about 5 hours . From there , you can get a mini bus connection to Pakse . This takes about another 5 hours . From Pakse it is an overnight sleeper to Vientiane . If you have time , it is advisable to stop over either at ST or take a slight detour to Kratie . Stay overnight here , and then get a bus to Pakse ( an extra 2 hours ) . I also stumbled upon this website : <URL> , could be useful you , though the buses seem to start from Phnom Penh . You might be able to get more information from them . Another post I saw was about this couple who did a trip to Vientiane from Siem Reap via Thailand : <URL> . I finally dropped Laos from my itinerary , so can not advice you from personal experience though .
I have no first-hand experience , but taking the <URL> looks like a nice option . The trip takes slightly more than 3 hours , and quoting Via Rail 's <URL> , there are " five departures every weekday from both Montréal and Québec City , and three departures on Saturdays and Sundays " . It looks like <URL> wo n't be a problem either . Regarding the price : one-way trip in economy class costs C$ 81 , booked the same day . But if you book in advance , you can get it at C$ 72 ( " discounted " ) , C$ 52 ( " supersaver " ) or even C$ 29 ( " escape " - web only &amp; limited availability ) . More details when you click " Compare " on the booking page . Edit : The bus option does n't look bad either . It also takes a bit more than 3 hours from downtown to downtown , and ( with a quick look ) costs about C$ 50 if booked the same day . One advantage with buses is that there tons of departures every day . For example , <URL> , one of the major operators , has some 20 daily departures between 06:00 and 23:00 . To me , both train and bus definitely seem viable options -- I guess it 's a matter of taste which one you should choose .
<URL> : Reasons for inadmissibility Note : This is only a guide . A Canadian immigration officer will decide if you can enter Canada when you apply for a visa , an Electronic Travel Authorization ( eTA ) , or when you arrive at a port of entry . A person may be denied a visa , or an Electronic Travel Authorization ( eTA ) , refused entry to , or removed from Canada on any of these grounds : security reasons , including espionage subversion ( attempts to overthrow a government , etc. ) violence or terrorism , or membership in an organization involved in any of these human or international rights violations , including war crimes crimes against humanity being a senior official in a government engaged in gross human rights violations or subject to international sanctions committing a serious crime that would be punishable by a maximum prison term of at least 10 years in Canada Footnote 1 having been convicted of a crime , including driving while under the influence of drugs or alcohol Footnote 1 organized crime , including membership in an organization that takes part in organized criminal activity , people smuggling or money laundering health grounds -- if their condition is likely to : endanger public health or public safety , or cause excessive demands on health or social services ( some exceptions exist Footnote 2 Footnote 3 ) financial reasons -- if they are unable or unwilling to support themselves and their family members misrepresentation , which includes providing false information or withholding information directly related to decisions made under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act ( IRPA ) failure to comply with any provision of IRPA Footnote 4 or having an inadmissible family member . However , the big disclaimer at the top says that this list is just a guide , and that your admissibility depends exclusively on what the immigration officer handling your case decides . In addition , <URL> of the agreement you linked specifically says that the two countries share information with the purpose of enforcing immigration laws in their respective countries : The purpose of this Agreement is to assist in the administration and enforcement of the Parties ' respective immigration laws by : using Information in order to enforce or administer the immigration laws of the Parties ; furthering the prevention , investigation , or punishment of acts that would constitute a crime rendering a National of a Third Country inadmissible or removable under the immigration laws of the Party providing the Information ; or facilitating the Parties ' adjudication of an application for a visa , admission , or other immigration benefit , or determination of whether an individual is to be ordered removed by providing Information regarding the admissibility of the individual . This is to say that Canada can inquire , and if so will be informed , about the US ban . You admissibility will therefore depend solely on the immigration officer 's decision based on all the information they have . They will know what , when , why , and how you overstayed . It goes without saying that one should not omit this information in one 's application . Now , overstaying in a country is generally a red flag when applying for a visa in another country . A previous overstay in any countries makes you immediately untrustworthy , and casts serious doubts about your intentions of actually leaving Canada . Therefore , the answer to whether being banned in the US renders you inadmissible in Canada is likely to be yes .
I 'm afraid it 's more difficult than you realise . You can certainly stay in various South American or South-East Asian countries . You are almost certainly not allowed to work there , even remotely , but it 's probably possible to get away with doing it . Europe is another matter . The Schengen agreement was intended to make some things easier but it 's not particularly helpful for you . First , it means that the maximum stay limit ( up to 90 days , depending on your visa ) applies to a whole lot of countries , instead of country-by-country . After that , you need to spend <URL> . So it 's more difficult to travel indefinitely or take a long time to enjoy each country without falling foul of the regulation . Additionally , as a South African citizen , you would need a visa . You will have to obtain this visa from your usual place of residence , which if you are constantly travelling probably means South Africa ( as you wo n't be able to secure a proper residence permit in other countries while traveling on tourist visas or visa exemptions ) . So you ca n't get it on the road or spontaneously decide to go to the Schengen area . An additional issue is that you need to satisfy the consulate that you have a legitimate purpose for your trip and will return to your country of residence after that . Here , being able to work remotely works against you . They most definitely do n't want you to work while in the Schengen area ( that 's not a legitimate purpose if you do n't have authorisation ) and prefer to see tangible things tying you with South Africa ( which is more difficult with a nomadic lifestyle ) . If your citizenship would allow you to visit without a visa , you could possibly get away with it a few times ( <URL> ) but since you need a visa , you will have to submit a lot of information about your situation in advance and have a plausible plan , which makes it more difficult to flaunt the rules . You also risk getting a visa that only covers the plan you submitted , which might not afford much flexibility . And if you rely on your job to satisfy the " means of subsistence " requirement , you ca n't very much submit a plan for a three-month tour of Europe without disclosing that you intend to work remotely . But if you ask a visa for a trip that corresponds to , say , a couple of weeks paid leave , you might get a visa valid for 20 or 30 days only , which is very short . So that 's a large part of Western Europe that ca n't be visited without extensive planning and many administrative formalities , sadly . The UK ( not Schengen ) is similar and the US and Canada probably too . One tip would be to start with the Schengen area and other picky places . You can apply for the first visa while you still have a situation in South Africa and once you have used several such visas ( even from different countries ) , getting another one for subsequent trips should become easier .
Indian nationals do not require a visa to enter Nepal . As per the Nepalese immigration , Indian nationals traveling to Nepal must posses any one of the following documents : Passport . Driving License with photo . Photo Identity card issued by a Government Agency . Ration Card with Photo . Election Commission Card with Photo . Identity Card issued by Embassy of India in Kathmandu . Identity Card with photo issued by sub-divisional magistrate or any other officials above his rank . Also , please check with your nearest travel agents for documents required by the Indian Immigration for Indians traveling to Nepal . Source : <URL>
You have at least two options : Bus + train The nearest railway station to Courmayeur is Pré-St . Didier , approximately 6 km from Courmayeur . To get from Courmayeur to Pré-St . Didier , take a bus with <URL> . This bus departs several times per day and takes 10 minutes . You need <URL> . It 's also possible to take this bus all the way to Aosta , but it 's perhaps more interesting to change to the train . For the train from either Pré-St . Didier or Aosta to Milano Centrale , you can use the search engine at <URL> . To get from Pré-St . Didier to Milano Centrale , you need to take the train to Aosta , then Aosta -- Ivrea , Ivrea -- Chivasso and Chivasso -- Milano . This route takes 4 hours 18 minutes and costs $ 17.40 . There are other routes that take longer . Note that <URL> , used by bahn.de and other websites , is incomplete . It claims a journey trip from Pré St. Didier to Milan takes 6 hours 55 minutes , by train to Aoste , bus to Martigny , train via Visp to Milano . This is neither fastest nor cheapest ! By bus all the way SAVDA also operate <URL> . Times and frequency depend on the time of day . The bus takes approximately 3 1/2 -- 4 hours , and costs $ 18 .
Via the <URL> , it is possible to book a bus from Berlin to Krakow for 29 EUR , even for a departure on a ( very ) short notice ( read : tomorrow ) . The price for a regular train ticket is 61 EUR . Eurolines will charge you about the same . The travel time by bus or train is 9 - 10 hours . By train you have to change once . The typical routing is via Warsaw . The plane is more expensive . Air Berlin has direct flights from Berlin to Krakow . One-way fares start at about 100 EUR , even for a departure at short notice ( in a week or so ) . Travel time is 1h20 . Regarding Poznan , it is an underrated destination in Poland . It 's definitely worth a stop . Note that all the trains from Warsaw to Berlin stop in Poznan too . It is indeed possible to travel on a night train from Poznan to Krakow . I do n't think that you will save a lot of money by doing that ( if any at all ) . The major advantage of the night train is the time saving . You can leave Berlin in the late afternoon and you will arrive in Krakow early in the morning . Traveling by day you will leave in the morning and arrive in the evening . On the other hand it can be pleasant to spend an evening in Krakow and sleep in a real bed .
The Hansaring station is about 10 minutes ' walk from the conference building . ( The KVB planner counts 14min , which is highly pessimistic , the distance is only 700m . ) From that station , line S13 ( see the <URL> ) gets you to the airport station in 17min ; you can see the times on the <URL> . The S13 trains call at Hansaring at :18 , :38 and :58 . For a 17:50 flight inside the EU , arriving at 17:15 would be cutting it close , so I 'd plan on taking the 16:38 train ( arriving at the airport at 16:55 ) , meaning you should be outside the building at about 16:25 ( allow a couple of minutes to buy a ticket ( $ 2.50 ) , I do n't think you can buy the ticket in advance ) . I do n't know what the traffic is at around 5pm in Cologne , but even with a clear way a taxi is n't going save a lot of time . The <URL> states about 15 minutes to get to the center , to which you need to add some time for crossing the Rhine . Google 's driving directions quote 23min , so in light traffic ( but can you assume that ? I do n't know ) you can leave at about 16:45 tops .
There are two options , both <URL> and neither an obvious winner : Japan is about 10 hours from Sydney , with direct flights to Tokyo . While snow is rare in Tokyo itself , there is tons of the white stuff anywhere in the Japan Alps ( eg . Nagano ) , on the Japan Sea coast ( eg . Kanazawa ) and up in Hokkaido , where ski bunny haven Niseko has become a virtual Aussie enclave . Japan is obviously not Christian , but Christmas is celebrated as a consumer holiday along the lines of Valentine 's Day , with plenty of Christmas displays in shopping malls , Colonel Sanders decked out as Santa at KFC , etc. . Korea is only a smidgen further away , with direct Sydney-Seoul flights also lasting around 10 hours . Snow in Seoul is more likely than in Tokyo , albeit far from guaranteed , and there 's lots of it in the mountains , eg . 2018 Winter Olympics host Pyeongchang . What 's more , a solid 30 % of Korea is Christian and Christmas Day is a public holiday . Direct flights to both hover around A$ 1000 return , with cheaper options to both available if you 're willing to route through a third country and/or use LCCs . Jetstar offers one-hop flights to Japan via Melbourne , Cairns and the Gold Coast , while Air Asia flies to various destinations in both Japan and Korea via Kuala Lumpur .
Apparently OASTH has added a direct line from Macedonia Airport to the Chalkidiki KTEL . The line 's number is 79A , and it 's non stop . I 'm not sure if the line is only for the summer , it might make sense to send OASTH an email and verify the line will be in service when you plan to arrive in Thessaloniki . Getting from Thessaloniki to Vourvourou with public transportation is ... not a very good idea , the first part of the trip alone is complicated enough . You 'll need to get from the airport to the <URL> 1 station , and that 's a small adventure in itself . OASTH2 does n't have offer a straight route , you 'll need to change busses , and the route their <URL> suggests is surprisingly bad . You 'll have to go about 15Km in the wrong direction , passing through the city 's centre3 , to reach the central KTEL station and then either get a KTEL bus for Chalkidiki , or get an OASTH bus for the Chalkidiki KTEL station . The amazing thing is that the Chalkidiki KTEL station is very close to the airport , they are both at the side of Thessaloniki facing Chalkidiki , while the central KTEL station is at the opposite site . There might be another option , changing busses at the IKEA bus station , but I have absolutely no idea how frequent buses running the two routes ( airport - IKEA and IKEA - Chalkidiki KTEL station ) are , and even if this route is an option you 'll probably have to wait for a while before changing buses . Getting a taxi from the airport is the more sensible choice , it 's a 20 - 25 minute drive and it will cost you about 15-20 $ ( educated guess , and I 'm including the extra charge for your baggages ) . Once you reach the Chalkidiki KTEL station , you are looking for the next bus to <URL> . There are buses going straight to Sithonia , but depending on the then schedule it might make more sense to take the <URL> bus to Nea Moudania , and then change for Sithonia . That 's not something to worry about , all you need to do is mention that you want to reach Vourvourou when buying your ticket , they 'll let you know what the better option is . KTEL routes are pretty regular and run on time , the buses are all air conditioned and generally clean , and the current fare for Ag . Nikolaos is 11.60 $ . It might be a couple of euros more for Vourvourou . Finding a rental car in Vourvourou is not impossible , but it 's certainly not easy . The settlement is a bit scattered and if you have n't made arrangements prior to getting there , you might find yourself without a car , there are a couple of car rental services but they might not even be open in May . If you do n't have the option of making prior arrangements then ... your best bet would be Nea Moudania or Nikiti , the two more populous villages of Chalkidiki . The better option depends on how much of Chalkidiki you want to explore , if you only want to explore Sithonia , then Nikiti would be the better option , but if you also want to explore Kassandra , then both options are valid and you might get better prices at Nea Moudania . Also buses from Thessaloniki to Nea Moudania are far more frequent than to other Chalkidiki destinations . IMHO , the optimal route would be : Airport to Chalkidiki KTEL station via taxi , Chalkidiki KTEL station to Nea Moudania via KTEL bus , Nea Moudania to Vourvourou by car . Some general tips : Routine checks by traffic police are frequent in Chalkidiki , you should have your passport with you . Be very careful when driving in Kassandra and Sithonia , there are some low visibility turns that are quite dangerous . Greek drivers are a bit antagonistic , and from my experience Chalkidiki drivers are the worst . If someone tries to overtake you , just let them . 1 Intercity public transport bus service . 2 Thessaloniki urban transport organization . 3 And if we are talking middle of the day , the traffic will be horrible .
end question
start question
Do North-American car rental agencies typically apply a minimum driving license duration ?
Ca n't say the same for all car rental companies in North America as there are 3 different countries with dozens of rental agencies but majors do n't specify the length of time required for the license to be held as long as the age requirements and licensing class is satisfied : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Most reputable car hire companies will let you pick up from the airport , although I 'm not exactly sure where the pickup point is as I live in Sydney and have never needed to do this . It is absolutely unnecessary to head into the city center from the airport , so just forget about that . From the airport you 're pretty much heading in the opposite direction from the traffic flow to the city if you are heading west towards Orange , so the likely ( not promising ) situation is light traffic . You 'll be traveling out west on the M5 whereas any morning traffic will be heading east towards the city . Just be careful not to miss the right hand turn onto the M5 , the light set up at the end of Marsh street is a bit dodgy , but once you 're on and into the tunnel just keeping heading along the M5 . Note this is also a toll road so make sure you have a handful of Aussie coins ( currently <URL> , $ 4.40 after then ) . So to answer your question , how far are you from open road ? About 5 minutes away . When I did a Google search it suggested going via Richmond , another option is to go via Katoomba . My uneducated guess is that via Katoomba is more direct , however I ca n't get Google maps to show me the calculations or the correct route for Katoomba . The problem with going through Bells line of Road ( via Richmond ) you are a little way from civilization so you may have the odd feeling of being lost every now and then whereas via Katoomba you are driving through towns and can always stop and ask directions .
A couple of options : Park at an outer Underground station . I used to park at Newbury Park station to the east of London . It 's just off the A12 and is on the Central Line . It 's a bit of a long trip on the tube , but only cost about # 5 to park for a full day . Depending on where you 're coming from , where you 're going to in London and where you 're going afterwards , there may be a more appropriate stations . Street parking . My parent live in London , and there 's quite a bit of parking near them ( Rotherhithe , in this case ) . It depends on the borough , the time of day etc. , but it might be viable . You can potentially get within walking distance of the center , and certainly near a tube station . If you 're leaving London on a weekend , this also has the bonus of being close enough to drive through the center of London ( since the congestion charge does n't apply on weekend ) , which is quite an experience . Good luck , whatever you decide !
There are not many camping sites , but there are some in Germany and some in the Netherlands . I would assume that neither of them have big problems in English , but if you want to make sure , you might want to pick one of these two : <URL> which is specializing in bikers , they take cars of course too <URL> which has a very good TripAdvisor rating Then there are some in Germany , such as <URL> <URL> and one more in the Netherlands : <URL> Of course , all of these are not for free . Generally , you can park anywhere with a camping car where you could also stop with a normal car and sleep there - just like anyone can sleep in their car to take a rest from driving . What is not legal is to take out a table and chairs etc and have a living-there kind of setup . Also , you might want to change the place of the car after 1 night , since a longer stay might be considered a permanent establishment of sorts and is also not allowed . You also have to watch out for blue parking signs with an additional white sign that might restrict certain cars types from parking there .
Coverage is specific to each policy which can vary greatly for each country so it is hard to generalise , but I 'll generalise anyway and hope it helps . As you mentioned , there are broadly two types of insurance that you need to consider : collision - which covers damage to the vehicle ; and liability - which covers damage you may inflict to others . Since insurance is a high margin area for car rental companies ( at least in the US ) it is smart to do your homework ahead of time and avoid making the decision at the counter The first place to check is your own car insurance policy , if you have one . Generally it includes liability for any car that you drive and not just the car ( s ) that you own , so that which would include a rental car . It may also include collision coverage of rental cars depending on your policy which means that you do not need to purchase any coverage from the car rental company . Some credit cards do include insurance for car rentals as a benefit , but this is specific to the particular credit card program . Call your credit card company to check the details of your coverage . If you do n't have coverage through either of those , you can purchase third-party insurance which is likely to be cheaper than purchasing through the car rental company . Depending on the car rental company , you may on occasion need to provide proof of any external insurance coverage if you decline the rental company 's coverage . Also , in the case of damaging the vehicle , you may be required to pay the rental car company for the damage and then claim it back through your insurance provider . You may also find rental companies selling personal belongings or similar protection . This is generally unnecessary as your belongings are likely covered by either your Homeowners , Contents , or Travel insurance . As a side note -- in my experience , insurance offered by the rental companies in the US is expensive ( e.g. doubles the cost of the rental ) but offers low or even zero deductibles . In Europe , the insurance offered by the rental companies is generally cheaper ( e.g. a couple euros extra per day ) but the deductible is much higher ( e.g. $ 500 - $ 1000 ) and they may require a deposit to cover it ( e.g. a hold on a credit card ) . When I first rented a card in Europe I was shocked by this and was n't prepared to cover the deposit . But now I much prefer it as I no longer have a car insurance policy and hate paying the outrageous rates when traveling back to the US and there is no high deductible option .
You would have to get a prepaid card ; but you wont be able to make calls to India from a prepaid number - a 20 Euro charge will probably give you around 5mins talktime to foreign countries before it is depleted ... Get one of those phone cards where you call a special number and you have much better rates ( " calling cards " , see comments ) ; the area around the Main Train station in Frankfurt should have shops who sell those cards . You are probably better off using skype to call home . Do n't buy anything at the Airport ; too expensive .
The short answer is no , you do n't need it . The long answer is that all Japanese have been vaccinated for it since the 1960s and statistical incidence is down to background noise levels : <URL> figures less than one case per year since the 1990s . So unless you 're planning on spending a lot of time in rural pig farms , it 's not worth worrying about . The CDC is , as ever , more cautious , but even they state that " <URL> " . The Australian Dep ' t of Health goes a bit further , stating that " the risk of travellers in Asia acquiring JE is extremely low " and only <URL> for " travellers spending 1 month or more in rural areas of Asia " ( unless there are significant other risk factors ) . All that said , the vaccine is reasonably effective and provides lifetime protection . So if money and needles are n't a concern and ( probably more importantly ) you plan on traveling in places where the disease is more common , like Vietnam or Indonesia , you might as well go for it .
Ca n't say the same for all car rental companies in North America as there are 3 different countries with dozens of rental agencies but majors do n't specify the length of time required for the license to be held as long as the age requirements and licensing class is satisfied : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Having done this now , I can say that the answer I 'd previously accepted ( Terminal 4 ) was incorrect . The flight I was on ( an American Airlines one ) landed at TBIT . It was fairly easy to " transfer " to Terminal 4 though - after re-dropping my bag , it was just a short walk outside - fairly obvious once you 've looked a terminal map .
Yes , while not fully harmonised , it is a safe assumption for the countries you mentioned . It follows from a proposal to the EU members in 2007 ( resubmitted in 2011 ) ... PNR data is information provided by passengers during the reservation and booking of tickets and when checking in on flights , as well as collected by air carriers for their own commercial purposes . It contains several different types of information , such as travel dates , travel itinerary , ticket information , contact details , travel agent through which the flight was booked , means of payment used , seat number and baggage information . The data is stored in the airlines ' reservation and departure control databases . Many states access PNR data for the purpose of fighting serious crime and terrorism . PNR data has been used manually for almost 60 years by customs and law enforcement authorities around the world . Technological developments have made it possible to use PNR data more systematically for law enforcement purposes . Source : <URL> The current state of affairs is most of the member states have passed their national legislation and have either implemented the proposal or in an advanced test phase . Currently up to 16 EU countries have decided to collect PNR data , according to Timothy Kirkhope , a British Conservative MEP who steers the file through Parliament . But because there is no EU framework , he said , " airlines have no clarity on how to process the data , and passengers have no clear EU-wide rights to protect booking information such as credit card details , seat number and emergency contact " . Statistics from the Parliament show that most EU countries already have their own PNR systems in place . In 2013 , the European Commission spent $ 50 million to start domestic PNR collection in 14 member states . Source : <URL> The UK enacted the legislation in 2008 in the form of a Statutory Instrument : <URL> In 2010 , the European Commission issued a communication on the sharing of this information with non-member states : <URL> s Earlier this year , 16 July 2015 , the proposal was put to a vote and carried by a slight majority . The full EU framework and harmonisation by members will presumably be complete in 2016 . ... a Dutch national travelling on a Dutch passport via a German international airport to an Asian country be logged ? Having said all of that , we turn to your specific question . The Netherlands has an EU compliant PNR system in place and is still formally in a testing phase . Germany has not yet developed an EU compliant PNR , but uses the version they implemented before the proposal was made . So the answer to your question is still ' yes ' , but data originating in Germany is not kept in an EU compliant format . If yes , for how long is this information retained ? The main legislative instrument at EU level governing this field was the Data Retention Directive , which was adopted in November 2006 following the Madrid terrorist train bombings in 2004 and the public transport bombings in London in 2005 . These resulted in a text which gave room for different applications at national level and which did not guarantee a sufficient level of harmonisation . Source : <URL> does it make a difference if the automated ePassport gates are used rather than the human officers ? No difference , the border inspection process does not play a role in the harvesting of information . Per the proposal the information is collected at the booking and reservation stage .
It is definitely better to book a car in advance , even in lower season . I would not take the risk of arriving there and not finding a suitable car . Moreover , when you book your car at home you can rent it through a broker . This way you will get a good price . And I have some doubts that you will find a better deal by pounding the rental desks at O.R. Tambo airport .
It depends on if you are a visitor or if you are a Californian resident . Visitors are allowed to use their foreign driver 's licence without limitation . If you become a resident of California , you must obtain a Californa driver 's license within 10 days . Source : <URL>
Driving the road is 830 miles and not that hard except for the narrow roads , blind curves , etc. . There are villages all around the coast of Iceland . <URL> . Now driving in the unpopulated highlands ( the desert part in the middle ) means driving in areas where there are no gas stations , no farms , no towing and you may have to drive across rivers . Here is a <URL> of driving in Iceland . As you can see , at the time I 'm writing , most all interior roads are impassable . The roads do open up in the summer . Travel guides advise taking spare parts and gasoline . One of the highland roads , <URL> , has an interesting name -- it means Bursting-sand , as in the trail that was long and dangerous enough that you 'd ride your horse as fast as possible ( until they burst ) , or else you 'd run out of food or run into dangerous weather along the way .
Yes you can . Because a Canadian license permits you to drive manual transmission cars back home , it 's taken as permission to drive one abroad . Since there is n't a specific ' manual transmission ' license there is no other approach that could be taken . I have rented manual cars in Britain many times on an Ontario license .
You can , but it is a very roundabout solution . From Phuket , you must travel to Singapore . From there you can take the Ferry to the port of Belawan . Then travel to Banda Aceh . Another route is from Pulau Aceh which travels to MIN Ulee Lheue . Unfortunately according to here , <URL> , the ferry from Penang was closed . The ferry from Penang is no longer operating . One thing I did notice , have you thought about flying out of Penang ? It seems flights are much cheaper . SIDENOTE : If you fly from Phuket to Kuala Lumpur in early Dec. the rates are much cheaper . Then fly from Kuala Lumpur to Banda Aceh . But I can see why you mentioned this is complicated . ADDENDUM : However , I looked up flights in Air Asia matching early Dec flights . My trip went from Phuket to Kuala Lumpur , then Kuala Lumpur to Banda Aceh . PH - > KL $ 45.25 Dec 3 Depart 8:05 -10:20 AM flight KL - > BA $ 35.75 Dec 3 Depart 13:15 -13:45 PM BA - > KL $ 42.20 Dec 10 Depart 8:50 -11:20 AM KL - > PH $ 48.61 Dec 10 Depart 18:05 -18:40 Total Price : $ 171.81 or 5950.38 Thai Baht
It 's normally the driver 's duty to bring the " éthylotest " ( or " alcootest " ) , but some renting companies are providing one or two . Otherwise it costs 2 $ in shop / pharmacy . Links ( in french ) for companies saying they provide it ( in brackets , price you pay if you used it ) : <URL> ( ? $ ) , <URL> ( ? $ ) , <URL> ( 6 $ ) , <URL> ( 5 $ ) , <URL> ( 5 $ ) . Always ask to be sure .
I have checked with <URL> , one of the cheapest and reliable companies in Canary Island , and they told me that you can take the car to other island as long as you return it in the same island where you rented it . You do n't have to pay extra money for this but you have to ask them for an authorization . This is what they answered to me about you question . This is the answer they gave me . It is in Spanish but basically It says what I told you . From : &lt;info@cicar.com&gt; ( sent by cmorales@grupocabreramedina.com ) Buenos días , Usted puede alquilar un coche en una isla y pasarlo a otra , siempre y cuando devuelva el coche en la misma isla que lo recogió , sin cargo extra . Además deberá pedir la autorización a nuestra oficina para que conste en su contrato y tenga una cobertura total . Gracias Saludos Cora Morales On the other hand , <URL> is an inexpensive company and they have offices in every dock so you can take a new car as soon as you arrive to the next destination . This option can be the cheapest since you do n't have to pay for the car transportation when you move between islands , which is not usually cheap .
The application only asks for your initial arrival date , not dates of every trip . Transit visas like most other US visas have a period of validity and a specified number of entries . The potential of getting a multiple entry C-1 or a limited number of entries ( 1 , 2 , etc ) depends on your citizenship . There is a webpage that you can enter the country of citizenship and see what the limits are on entries , validity , etc. . But these are maximums not guarantees , as the consular staff can decide to limit your visa to less time or less visits . <URL>
Part of this may depend on where you are renting the car from . For example , if you 're renting in El Calafate , it 's pretty common for people to take cars over the border into Chile to go to Torres del Paine . While the permits and necessary steps might vary between different car rental companies , the offices for all the car rental companies should be able to help you take the necessary steps . From what I 'm seeing , it sounds like there are always additional fees . For example , see this website : <URL> I do n't think it 's likely that you 'll be able to get detailed information about this on any of the main rental car websites ( Hertz , Budget ) and you may need to send an email to the office in the city you 're renting from so you can get all the up-to-date information . In summary : Probably the reason why it 's hard to find published info about this in English is because the rules often change and it 's not something the companies necessarily want to encourage . But having said that , it 's almost definitely possible , so you should n't be afraid to ask ! :)
I always recommend getting an international driving permit even if it is n't enforced . An IDL costs $ 25 US , takes 15 minutes , and can be picked up at any AAA ( If you are from the USA ) . They are handy if you get pulled over or as a second form of ( unofficial ) ID should something happen . Keep in mind it is only valid if you have you original license with you , so keep that handy .
end question
start question
Prepaid SIM card with data-only plan in Slovenia ?
The PDF you provided is both in Slovenian and English language . The English part starts roughly in the middle , so there is no need to translate . Be aware that Tušmobil 's cell coverage is not very good outside major cities and other populated areas . To cover the grey area , they have an agreement with the national cell provider Telekom Slovenije , formerly known as Mobitel . But that does not apply for the 24-hour internet for 1 $ . For that , you must be using Tušmobil 's cell network . Your other options are Telekom Slovenije . This is the best and most popular network , and also the most expensive . Here you have an option for 9,90 $ and you get 1 day of internet access , additional days are 2 $ . You can also get a 30-day option for 10 $ , which is a better option if you intend to use it for more than 5 days . See <URL> and <URL> . Simobil . This is the second most popular network , it is good in populated areas but the reception in other areas is poorer than Telekom Slovenije . But it is still better than Tušmobil . Here you have an option for 5 $ and get a 3-day internet access with that . Additional 3-days will cost you 5 $ , 30-days will cost you 10 $ . See <URL> and <URL> . Overall , a week 's worth of mobile internet wo n't cost you more than 10-20 $ . If you are intending to stay in larger cities , go for the cheapest option . But if you are planning on going to the mountains , national parks and other distant areas , then be aware that Telekom Slovenije ( Mobitel ) has better coverage than Tušmobil and Simobil .
Actually it 's not a tax , it 's a regular service fee . The information you are requesting can be found on the company website ( in Spanish ) : <URL> The service charge is 3 CUC ( + - 3 USD ) per day The minimal duration of a contract is 3 days You need to pay all the daily fees in advance for the period you will be using the line . Phone calls are paid independently You also need to add funds to your account for a minimum of 10 CUC ( + - 10 USD ) No internet service ( there is data roaming if you bring a phone from another country , but this is VERY expensive ) Additionally , there are wifi hotspots in most hotels and <URL> , there is an access fee of 2 CUC per hour that should be paid in advance .
I 've used a lot of these cards almost since they were introduced to the market over a decade ago , so I 'm drawing on my experience here ( technical corrections are welcome ) : Prepaid debit cards in the US come in two major classes : reloadable and non-reloadable . Non-reloadable cards are purchased with a fixed amount of U.S. dollars on the card , and can not be topped up . Once they are empty , they can be discarded . These are often sold as " gift cards " , do not require an ID check , and can be found in most grocery stores , drugstores , shopping malls , etc. . They generally have a flat fee for purchase of the card , and usually no other fees . The highest denomination I have ever seen for these is $ 1000 , though I believe the law allows for them to have up to $ 3000 . Most are in the $ 25 - $ 100 range , though higher denominations can be found with some shopping . You will receive a card immediately at the point of purchase , usually with the name of GIFT CARD or something similar . This once caused one cashier to glance at the receipt as I was finishing my purchase and tell me " Thanks for coming in today , Mr. Gift . " Reloadable cards are purchased with an arbitrary amount of money loaded on the card , and can be topped up at any time . These typically carry monthly fees , top-up fees , and sometimes transaction fees . They also require an ID check , and the issuer may restrict issuance to US residents . ( Thanks , PATRIOT act ! ) They can be loaded with up to $ 3000 at any given time , though the issuing bank may have a lower limit . Reloadable cards may have to be mailed to you at a US address ; you do not typically get the card at point of purchase , though you may get a temporary card . The card you receive in the mail will have your name on it , and it generally takes about a week or two to arrive . As far as I know , neither type can be obtained from outside the US ; you must obtain them in person at a point of purchase . Both types of cards will have a web site where you can register the card and associate a physical address in the US with it for the purpose of online shopping . The web site will also show the activity on the card and its current balance . For reloadable cards , the registration is mandatory and you will do it as part of the process of purchasing the cards . For non-reloadable gift cards , it is optional , and only needed if you wish to use the card to make online purchases . ( And those virtual cards you mention are only usable online ; they can not be used in physical stores . ) Which type is better for you , I think only you can say . But I would think that a high-value non-reloadable card or two would be the way you would want to go here . My favorite place to get them is at shopping malls ; the mall customer service desk will sell them , generally in denominations up to $ 250 or $ 500 depending on the mall , usually for a fee of about $ 5 . Finally , a usage note : When your card gets near empty , you can instruct a merchant to charge the exact amount remaining on the card , and then pay the remaining balance via another payment method , as long as you are n't doing this at a restaurant , hotel or possibly gas station ( since these places may authorize an amount higher than the amount given and settle the exact amount a few days later ) . This allows you to empty out the card and not lose any money . You might also consider just using your own credit cards while in the US ; if they have a magnetic stripe and are Visa , MasterCard , American Express , etc. , they should work in most places in the US except for " pay at the pump " gas station pumps ( <URL> ) . You 'll usually get a good exchange rate , too , though this does seem to vary a lot by country and bank . Note that Maestro cards do not generally work for purchases here , though they work at most ATMs .
Since the card is prepaid , is there any reason to not keep using it until it cuts off ? You might want to keep it for voice use only ( where roaming charges are not as high ) as a backup or when you enter a new country and do n't have a local SIM card yet . Theoretically , you can also cash out unused credit under some circumstances , but it 's probably not worth the hassle . ( And when we that be ? There 's $ 10 of voice credit with the account . ) It depends on the details of your Belgian provider 's terms of service , but typically the roaming data usage will eat into that credit , and once it 's used up ( probably after a few MB ) it will stop working . There are some prepaid plans that will automatically top up the credit from your bank account or credit card every time it runs out , but this is usually a feature you have to activate separately ( and should , of course , avoid ) .
As of september last year , I was able to withdraw cash with both VISA and MasterCard from ATMs in indonesia , both were swipe cards . I did n't pay directly at point of sale using any of my cards since that incurs a fee for both of my cards . However I expect swipe cards to be supported anywhere for the foreseeable future since even in my home country ( germany ) , I have not yet seen any place where EMV is supported , but swipe is not .
It 's possible and easy . You just have to go to one of the many mobile shops around and buy the sim card . In Portugal there are 3 physical operators : <URL> formerly known as <URL> <URL> <URL> You also have some virtual operators : <URL> - they usually have nice prices but everything is done on-line . You can buy a card in mobile phone shops or by snail mail <URL> - similar to uzo <URL> - you can find them in every post office shop ; it belongs to the post office company . <URL> - kind of new . It 's widely available and aparently with good prices . <URL> formerly known as ZON - it 's part of a cable tv group ; in principle a good solution but only if you subscribe to cable <URL> A very recent virtual operator , currently offering Internet when you top up . Recharging a pre-paid simcard in Portugal , for someone from abraod , can be a problem since the most common way of doing it is in ATM machines . You probably ca n't recharge your phone with a foreign ATM card since you only get a small set of operations . The alternative way is to go to the physical shop where you bought the card ( or another one from that network ) or go to any shop with " payshop " . You can find a near by agent here <URL> ( only pt ) . Lycamobile allows for an on-line recharge .
Besides more global solutions like <URL> , there are no ' local ' sim cards for multiple South American countries , comparable to <URL> . On top of that , South American cellphone networks tend to be somewhat fractured , meaning that out-of-the-way locations might only be served by one , or a few , of the nation 's networks . So , with a foreign sim card , you might be able to use multiple local networks , but , indeed , at a cost . If you expect to use your phone extensively , your best bet is to get a local sim card . However , also keep in mind that some countries will require you to register the card with the equivalent of a local social security number . ( I do n't know whether Ecuador , Peru , Chile or Bolivia need this , but Brazil most certainly does . ) But , some personal experience , I spent quite a few months traveling around South America last year and this year , I never really missed not having a local number . Wifi access is almost ubiquitous . And in places where it is n't , cellphone access tends to be an issue as well .
Google uses ITA Software 's <URL> , which uses algorithms to combine and parse multiple sets of flight information from airlines . This includes any pricing and any other available data , which allows them to keep an up-to-date database that can be searched just like their search engine . This allows them to check against multiple different airlines for the various data that all of those programs like expedia and travelocity have access to . Refer to the information provided in the links to prevent for a lengthy post that is just quoted from the website . It is a quite complex and very effective software . You can read more on this topic on <URL> . EDIT : If you 're looking to find really good flights at a cheaper rate , Google has a good starting point for sure . I would potentially refer to websites like <URL> or <URL> as well however and then compare the prices . I always like to refer to multiple sources and see who offers the best rate . I usually always start with a Google search , this allows you to see what airlines might be the right one to go with in the long run .
The PDF you provided is both in Slovenian and English language . The English part starts roughly in the middle , so there is no need to translate . Be aware that Tušmobil 's cell coverage is not very good outside major cities and other populated areas . To cover the grey area , they have an agreement with the national cell provider Telekom Slovenije , formerly known as Mobitel . But that does not apply for the 24-hour internet for 1 $ . For that , you must be using Tušmobil 's cell network . Your other options are Telekom Slovenije . This is the best and most popular network , and also the most expensive . Here you have an option for 9,90 $ and you get 1 day of internet access , additional days are 2 $ . You can also get a 30-day option for 10 $ , which is a better option if you intend to use it for more than 5 days . See <URL> and <URL> . Simobil . This is the second most popular network , it is good in populated areas but the reception in other areas is poorer than Telekom Slovenije . But it is still better than Tušmobil . Here you have an option for 5 $ and get a 3-day internet access with that . Additional 3-days will cost you 5 $ , 30-days will cost you 10 $ . See <URL> and <URL> . Overall , a week 's worth of mobile internet wo n't cost you more than 10-20 $ . If you are intending to stay in larger cities , go for the cheapest option . But if you are planning on going to the mountains , national parks and other distant areas , then be aware that Telekom Slovenije ( Mobitel ) has better coverage than Tušmobil and Simobil .
Although I have not found an official statement yet , many people on the Web insist that empirically there is no expiration . <URL> Can I get a refund for the remaining balance ? T-Money cards have no expiration date and the unused balance will remain on your card until the entire amount is used up . You can receive a refund for the balance on your card at convenience stores like GS25 that charges KRW 500 ( RM 1.43 ) fee and the card price of KRW 2,500 is not refundable . <URL> Or , you can just keep the T-money and the money on it for the next time you come to Korea because it NEVER expires !! <URL> My sister lives in China , and her T-money card from 4 years ago still worked . So for the time being let me make this question resolved as it has no expiration .
According to the <URL> , both are in Casper , at the First National Bank and the Hilltop National Bank .
I was not able to find train connection but on the pages of the <URL> you can find buses that go to Trieste ( local name in Slovenian : Trst ) . This is much shorter trip than taking detours and taxis as suggested by Paola . Here is a sample :
According to <URL> , Visa Electron is accepted in South Korea in many ATMs ( make sure to choose the bank from the drop down menu ) . Also , According to <URL> Cirrus ATM cards are the most widely accepted in Korea .
This almost comes under ' opinion based ' , but we can treat it as a compare-and-contrast option . Hi from Sydney , BTW . Australia is huge . Literally similar in size to the US . That does n't mean you ca n't drive across it , but you have to take things into account that do n't occur to people compared with the US : gas stations are few and far between in some places there 's long distances with nothing in-between if you break down , you might not see anyone else for hours , or days . There 's a reason the main tourist trail is on the east coast - it 's where most people live , and where most of the interesting stuff is in terms of variety . A common backpacker route ( if doing a circle route ) is to go from say , Melbourne to Sydney ( perhaps via Canberra ) , up the coast to Byron Bay , Gold Coast and the Sunshine Coast , Cairns etc , then perhaps inland/across to Darwin , down to Alice Springs ( Uluru , woo ! ) , through to Coober Pedy and Adelaide ( with Kangaroo Island ) , and back to Melbourne , or at least a similar route with alternative starting points ( perhaps Sydney ) . Perth is usually considered a flight - most would n't consider driving , busing or training - although all are options . I 've bussed from Adelaide to Alice Springs , and that alone is 20 hours . I 've had relatives who lived in Derby ( near Broome ) for a while , and there 's not much else around . I 'd love to do the drive from Perth to Broome , but it 's long and there 's not much in-between to look at . So , it depends what you 're after . If you 've got the time to do a trip that you probably wo n't get much chance to head back and do again , maybe consider the harder Perth to Broome . If you 're after seeing the sights and places that Australia is known for , then you 're better off on the east coast . If you 're going to do both , fly or bus . You do n't want to be the tired driver driving in twilight , dodging kangaroos and worrying about the gas light that 's been on for 50km . Unless of course , that 's your thing ;)
Go for the latter : get an unlocked smartphone and a local data plan . By far the cheapest . Also , you could buy the phone in Thailand . That being more of a developing country , you 'd be surprised how cheap ( mostly Chinese , but not only ) smartphones can be . You should easily be able to get a basic smartphone for under 100 USD . Even the low end Samsungs should n't set you back more than 130 USD . Getting a data plan in the US is not a good idea . Roaming charges on data tend to be very unreasonable .
The bio-date page of a passport is the page with your biographical data ( name , date of birth , passport number , expiration date , etc. . . ) . Most passports will also show your picture on this page , along with the <URL> at the bottom . Examples : <URL> Public domain <URL> Source : <URL>
I notice you say you want to be able to put an Australian number on your CV before you fly , which you 'll be reachable on after you land . There is an alternative option , by buying an Australian phone number through a VOIP service which routes calls to that number to an app via the internet . One such service is <URL> . I 've got <URL> . These services give you a genuine local landline number of your choice . It 'll be just like any other Australian number , but when people call it , the call is routed via the internet to an app on your phone on computer , avoiding international charges . Australians can call you on landlines and mobiles just as easily and cheaply as if calling their neighbour , and you can receive the calls anywhere in the world with an internet connection . Most such services also let you pay to make local calls . For the person you call , it looks just like you called them from this normal Australian landline number , and they can call you back or save the number in contacts just like a normal phone call . Advantages over importing a SIM : You can start making and receiving Australian calls right now , at local rates You can keep the same number when you get there - many services will also let you have it routed direct to your new Aus mobile number , so you can receive calls both when online with no phone signal , and with phone signal but offline When , in future , you take trips home and swap your Australian SIM for your home ( Iranian ) SIM , you can still continue to receive calls to your Australian number Skype used to offer such a service , called " Skype Numbers " . However , I would n't recommend this right now due to a major bug with Skype that has existed for over a year and makes Skype numbers almost worthless . There are many long , long , angry threads on Skype 's forums about this , but the quick summary is , Skype currently completely ignores incoming calls apart from while , or 5-15 minutes after , your device 's screen is switched on with the Skype app open filling the screen . It does n't even give missed call notifications , even if you 're online and Skype thinks it 's " active " and running in the background . [ UPDATE ] In the latest version of Skype the problem is even worse , you ca n't even check voicemail messages any more . This makes it completely useless for receiving calls , which is 99 % of the point of having one . I 've got <URL> , but have n't found one yet . I 'd only recommend Skype numbers if a ) you can predict when you 're likely to be called , so you can sit there refreshing the Skype app when they call ( even then , it still sometimes fails ) , or b ) if you spend all day , every day sat at a PC or Mac ( these seemingly can receive calls ) , and never leave your desk .
What do you want to know about these flights ? The websites shown in the other question are advertised as flight trackers more than providers of historical data about flights . It is hard to tell from your question what kind of data you expect , so here are some websites and their sources . As @CGCampbell points out , <URL> claims to " collect flight and airport information from a multitude of global sources " without telling which ones . <URL> also mentions around 50 government sources in Europe , Oceania , North America . It also uses a <URL> , basically <URL> . <URL> says it uses first the same ADS-B technology and secondarily the FAA data . Also , if you want to track a flight , most airports have a list of live flights , most likely relying on their own radars . So if you have a specific airport in mind , you 'd better go on its website to check . Open data portals such as <URL> or <URL> did not result in very relevant data sets or apps . The only one I found was a World Bank data set showing <URL> , but I expect that by historical flight data you mean detailed information about a specific flight . Some other websites show some incomplete flight data like <URL> that partially relies on <URL> which in turn relies on FAA or previously DAFIF for its data . <URL> has a question on the topic and show a lot of sources but few might interest you . In more specific and curious data , as pointed out by an <URL> question , <URL> reports incidents and accidents about commercial flights . I recommend you to visit and even ask on these other StackExchange websites , as some more knowledgeable people may be able to answer your more specific question .
You can pay for almost everything by Visa or Mastercard in Paris . There might be a minimum purchase amount of a few euros ; 5 or 10 euros used to be common but many places have lowered that minimum . There are only a few places where you should expect to have to pay in cash : Street stalls , e.g. markets . Some merchants will take cards but not all . Markets are the best place to buy produce ( do n't buy produce from a French supermarket ) . Shops that mostly sell low-ticket items -- mostly bakeries . Many do n't take cards , and the ones that do wo n't take them for just a croissant . Maybe some cafés in out-of-the-way neighborhoods ( but definitely not cafés in any halfway upscale or touristy place ) . I 've never seen a place that took Mastercard and not Visa or vice versa . On the other hand , most shops do n't take American Express , apart from hotels , upscale restaurants and fashion stores .
Slightly more than a year ago , on 2011-12-30 CET , as a German citizen , I bought a prepaid card in an <URL> shop in <URL> / Les Halles , Paris . That 's an 11 min travel by public transport ( <URL> ) from Arc de Triomphe . The price for the card was 5 EUR , incl . 5 EUR of credit . I then charged the card with 15 EUR , bought at a <URL> just around the corner , because in the Orange shop that was not possible . The Orange card has an option called Internet max that can be activated either in the SIM card menu somewhere under Multimedia , or online . See the screenshot below : Currently it offers 500MB for 9 EUR per month . Activation of the option took some hours . Tethering did not work , but I believe that it 's possible to hack around that . Note that in the shop they told me that with a standard Orange prepaid card the data option is not available . They are wrong !
end question
start question
Connecting to domestic flight in Auckland ( AKL ) , do I have to re-check-in my luggage ?
Yes , you need to collect and re-check . I 've done this many times at Auckland . The reason is immigration and customs is only at the Auckland international terminal . NZ has strict controls on luggage - and will xray and scan them for food , wood , and many other restricted items . You need to be with your luggage when this happens . If they checked it through for your domestic flight , then it would n't go through customs . Once you 're through with your luggage into actual NZ , it 's actually about a 1.2 km ( from memory ) walk , or a free shuttle ride to the domestic terminal , where you 'll get your flight to Queenstown . When flying to Queenstown , if you can , <URL> - the view is spectacular .
PEK-J268-GYD-J263 TXL has a layover of 1 hour 45 minutes in GYD . This is above minimum connection time and should be fine . However , Azerbaijan airlines ( J2 ) only has one flight per day from GYD to TXL so if you do miss it , they would most likely rebook on you on the next day and you would have to stay overnight . It is possible that they could also rebook you via another route and occasionally might rebook you to another airline , but I would doubt that . Airlines rarely wait for connecting passengers these days , but might if there are a considerable number arriving from a connecting flight . Your bag should be checked through to your destination and you should n't have to pick it up in Baku . Enter your citizenship and travel details in <URL> and it will tell you whether you need a visa . Timatic is the system the airlines use to determine whether you require a visa and thus wo n't carry you without it .
Even though the people who walk past are unlikely to be want to buy a suitcase right now , they are still the target demographic . How many other locations are there in a city where you can open a store where 100 % of the people that walk past are people that travel by air , and thus the type of people that will be in the market for your products ? How many non-airport locations around an area like the San Francisco Bay Area would you need to open a store in order to pretty much guarantee that every person who flies internationally at least once a year walks in front of your store ? A dozen ? A few dozen ? How about if you do it in an airport ? Perhaps 2 ? ( eg , SFO has 2 international terminals ) . Some of the luggage shops you find in airports are for a particular brand . eg , there is a Tumi store in Newark airport . Even if that store was to never actually sell a single piece of luggage , they are building their brand and allowing people to see and try their product range before going home and ordering the same pieces from their website or from another store - all of which works in their favor . The remainder of the stores generally sell high-end luggage which they would likely be able to ship to a home location if someone purchased something and was unable to take it with them or collect on their return trip . At the end of the day , do n't think of these as luggage stores , just think of them as high-end retail , marketing to a demographic that frequents airports ( high wealth/travelers ) .
Luggage gets lost when : It does n't make it to the plane on time , or It is sent to the wrong place , or It is stolen wholesale . Checking in early reduces the risk of # 1 , and has no impact on # 2 , leaving only case # 3 to worry about . Breaking that down in turn , there 's basically two ways for bags to get stolen : Opportunistic theft of arrived bags from the baggage area ( = guy in suit " accidentally " picking up your suitcase instead ) . Obviously checking in early has no impact on this . Professional gangs of thieves in the airport itself spiriting away bags . Typically they 've got one accomplice checking for juicy items ( cameras , laptops etc ) in the X-rays , and another taking the bags thus spotted . Now odds are the " steal or not " decision is made pretty much instantly ( " Hey Bob ! Make sure the purple suitcase for flight XY123 falls off the conveyor belt , mmkay ? " ) , but maybe having a lot of time helps ? So if you 're in an airport known for theft and you 're checking in something you really should n't be checking in , then you might want to check in as late as possible . But if you 're sensible and put all your valuables in carry-on luggage like you should , then you have nothing to worry about from these guys , and checking in early will reduce the overall odds of it getting lost .
There is no exit customs for ordinary travelers in the USA . The only reason I know of ( and it does not apply here ) is if you had a high-value object , like imported photographic equipment , on which duty is usually paid in the United States , and you want to register the serial number with Customs so that on return to the United States there is no issue about paying duty on it again .
Most commercial campgrounds have office hours and tend not to be open real late , say 8 or 9pm . But if you have a reservation and have n't checked in by closing time , they will put a note on the office door telling you which campsite is yours and requesting you to come check in after they open in the morning . A fair number of campgrounds will allow you to simply choose a campsite , if you arrive without a booking after hours , and then come pay in the morning . The drawback however is you may not have the passcode to enter the restrooms or showers .
Yes , you need to collect and re-check . I 've done this many times at Auckland . The reason is immigration and customs is only at the Auckland international terminal . NZ has strict controls on luggage - and will xray and scan them for food , wood , and many other restricted items . You need to be with your luggage when this happens . If they checked it through for your domestic flight , then it would n't go through customs . Once you 're through with your luggage into actual NZ , it 's actually about a 1.2 km ( from memory ) walk , or a free shuttle ride to the domestic terminal , where you 'll get your flight to Queenstown . When flying to Queenstown , if you can , <URL> - the view is spectacular .
Since you have no bags , no customs . Passports can be bypassed but it usually does n't save any time . All non-Schengen aircraft park at the far end of the international pier . That includes your flight and your onward BA flight . The easiest way , if you have a U.S. or EU passport , is to go through passports into the Schengen zone , follow the corridor to transits , go through security again and then passport exit control ( again ) back into the non-Schengen pier . Now at the first passport control there is a little door that takes you straight back into the departures security without any passport control . If you have a passport that is going to cause a lot of problems , you should use it . You ring the intercom and explain you are doing a non-Schengen to non-Schengen and eventually an agent comes along and opens the door . But if all the passport agents are busy processing passports it might take a while before they have the time to let you through . So for an EU passport holder it can be quicker to go through passports . What you 're talking about can be done in three minutes if you are at the front of the U.S. inbound aircraft with an EU passport . If you are at the back behind everyone else it might take twenty minutes . You should obtain your BA boarding pass on the BA App on your phone to save time . Otherwise go to the BA gate ASAP and explain that you transferred and do not have a boarding pass .
I just realised what the correct answer is - a bit slow before . I 'm in Auckland , NZ . If still of use please contact me ( see profile page ) . Place data on a USB memory stick . Trust me :-) Give me memory stick and upload details . It will not be vastly fast , but I can set it to chug along as a background task on std ADSL throttled to a rate that does not annoy my game playing son too much . From your point of view it will be " as good as done " once you give me the data , so very fast . The recently introduced VDSL is probably fast enough for you . Actually claims to be faster than fibre best case . Reality varies . Up to 70 Mbps down and 10 Mbps up ( !!! ) Finding someone with it is probably a matter of asking . Telecom - > XTRA - > Spark call it " Ultra VDSL " Here is the <URL> complete with a " check your address " box . And <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
This seems to be in violation of their stated policy . See <URL> which for " international to USA " states " Please note that your bags will be automatically transferred to your connecting flight . "
As you have one number for your entire reservation , your baggage will be checked in once . You will also get boarding passes for all your flights when you initially check-in at Pearson . The only glitch in the process is that US has their own immigration/customs policy which applies to all passengers , even those in transit . You have to go through immigration and passport control . Thankfully , you can do this process directly at Pearson ( <URL> ) ; effectively making you a domestic passenger once you land in the US . Now all that 's left is the waiting :)
Skipping a flight you 're checked in for with bags is generally not a great idea . Since your bags ca n't fly without you ( because Terrorism ( tm ) ) , they have to unload your bags , which will almost certainly delay the flight and piss off the baggage handlers . In other words , doing this would usually be a bit of a dick move on your part . However , in this particular case ( as Doc notes ) , you 're flying internationally from Korea to DTW , which means your bags will be unloaded so you can collect them and take them through Customs . So : Nothing happens , you can simply leave during your layover . The airline will mark you as a no-show for that flight . Nobody cares if you do this occasionally , but the airline will eventually twig on if you do this ( say ) every week and might send you a nasty letter , confiscate your frequent flyer miles and/or ban you from flying with them again . and 4 . See above : you 're required to collect your bags at DTW anyway , so all you need to do is not check them back in afterwards .
Typical " earliest checkin " times are between 12:00 and 16:00 - but if your concern is luggage , it 's not really relevant as pretty much all hostels and hotels offer to safely store your luggage for you before checkin and after checkout . Some Hostels additionally have personal lockers , since dormitories are more or less publically accessible , so you do n't want to leave valuables in them .
Since you are transferring from a non-Schengen flight to an intra-Schengen one , you will enter the Schengen Area in Switzerland . <URL> Travel outside the Schengen area If you are travelling to or from countries that do not adhere to the Schengen Agreement you will have to pass through passport control in Zurich . Likewise , transfer passengers travelling to or from the Schengen area from a non-Schengen country will have to pass through passport control in Zurich in future . Generally speaking , your luggage will be checked through to your final destination if you booked the connecting flights via the same airline , and/or booked with separate airlines but both flights are on the same ticket .
You should be able to find the conditions on the airline website . Most of the conditions might be different from an airline to an other but you also have rights which are not airline-dependant . The one you might be interested in is <URL> . <URL> for RyanAir , for instance : 9.2.2 If your flight is cancelled or delayed for at least two hours , ask at the check-in counter or boarding gate for the text stating your rights , particularly with regard to compensation and assistance . ( <URL> ) See also Easyjet <URL> pertaining to flight delays and cancellations .
There is no single source to check if there is Wi-Fi in a certain flight or not . The best thing you can do right now is to check the airline 's website to see if the flight supports Wi-Fi or not . Remember , if the airline advertises Wi-Fi that does not mean all its fleet/flights has it . Sometimes certain types of airplanes in an airline have it while others do n't , same goes for routes , like in American Airlines where Wi-Fi is supported within the US only ! international flights with the same airline will be without Wi-Fi . Alternatively , use google to search using a query like , usually the first link will have an answer . Regarding safety of the Wifi , it is safe to turn on . Check <URL> to other similar question , it will answer your question .
In general , the only way that you will be guaranteed to have the airline re-accommodate you on a later flight in the event of a delay is to book the flights on the same ticket - which basically means that you need to buy all of the flights together , from the same source . There is no means to " combine " them after booking , even if they are booked on the same airline ! Many airlines do not sell tickets for other airlines , so you will normally need to go through a travel agency to achieve this - either an online site or a physical travel agency . Depending on the airlines involved it may not be possible to book the flights on the same ticket - it all comes down to which airlines have " interline " agreements with each other . A travel agency will be able to confirm details like that for you . When making plans like this - especially if you ca n't get them booked on the one ticket - it 's a good idea to have travel insurance as a backup . As long as you 've booked a valid connection ( ie , above " Minimum Connection Time " for the airlines/airport ) then most travel insurance will cover the costs of being rebooked if you miss a connection - but obviously read the fine print first !
You really do n't need to bring it , soy milk is widely available at most any supermarket in Australia . You should be allowed to import soy milk if it 's commercially packaged , but you must declare it to <URL> on arrival , if you fail to declare it you may be subject to fines .
Coming from India , you ca n't stay in Schengen as a tourist without a visa . That means you wo n't be allowed to stay after the 23rd . <URL> To those who tell you that nothing will happen if you over stay , I can tell you about my personal experience the first time I left Schengen : I overstayed because I thought I could stay 3 months instead of 90 days , and in those 3 months there were 91 days . I left on the day 91 and the border control noticed it immediately . They took me to a room for about 4 hours and made me endless questions : where have I been , what did I do , they asked me to prove all my stays and travels with tickets and receipts ( which fortunately I had with me at that time ) , they made me sign a paper telling me that a process would start against me through my embassy for overstaying and that I might denied the access to Schengen in the future . Finally , obviously , I lost the flight I was supposed to take . So I had to pay for a new flight right there in order to leave Schengen . You can bet that with this sort of behaviour they make really sure that you will not over stay again .
For a variety of reasons , unlike most countries , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . To repeat with a footnote , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . * For a foreign traveler , even a Canadian , this is a darn good reason to <URL> * The Transit Without Visa ( TWOV ) and International-to-International ( ITI ) programs were suspended in 2003 ; all passengers connecting from and to international flights must obtain a <URL> or be covered under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . If your flight is " <URL> , " say SNN-JFK or YUL-DCA , you will be processed for health , agriculture , customs , and passport/immigration at your departing airport . Your flight into the U.S. in effect becomes a " domestic " one and your transit " domestic " as well . But Costa Rica does not have a pre-clearance treaty with the U.S. , so that is besides the point . In other words , there is no transit lounge in an airport where through passengers can wait to transfer to an outbound flight . Upon landing at your gateway airport , all passengers will disembark directly to a processing facility where they will claim their bags and go through customs and immigration procedures for entry into the United States . An immigration officer can not just take your word that you are immediately connecting to an outbound international flight , because once you have been stamped in , you are inside the United States , and could simply leave the airport if you wanted to . So if they have cause to deny you admission to the U.S. , they will deny you . As when you are denied entry to any country , the airline that brought you there is required to fly you back to your port of embarkation on the first available flight . I do not know if you would even be allowed to use your onward ticket . So , given the risk of having your trip ruined , it seems a worthy investment to avoid connecting in the U.S. and/or to get some legal advice on removing whatever blocks there are to your admission to the U.S.
end question
start question
Using status across other Star Alliance airlines ?
No , you do n't technically get the same status on other airlines . And it ca n't be requested . How it works is that Star Alliance has 2 generic levels of status - Star Alliance Gold and Star Alliance Silver . Each particular airline status corresponds to one of these two statuses . For example , if you 're a Silver at Continental , you 're also a Star Alliance Silver member . If you 're Platinum or Gold at Continental , you 're a Star Alliance Gold member . You can check out the equivalent for your particular airline at this page : <URL> What this means is that , if you have your frequent flyer number entered on all your reservations , when you fly with other airlines in Star Alliance , they will see that you are Gold/Silver and give you benefits accordingly ( lounge access , priority boarding , fast track ) . You can also earn miles with your own airline whenever you fly a Star Alliance member airline . However , this is n't the same as being a member of the other airline 's FFP . For one thing , airlines often restrict reward availability to partner rewards and retain some of the inventory for their own members . E : I wanted to add that you can technically ask for status on other airlines , if you are planning to switch all your flying to them . You can contact them and ask for a " status match " , which they will give you if they think you 're a high value passenger , and usually you 'll have to fly a certain amount within a certain number of weeks to retain the status .
Unfortunately , the solutions to this seem quite limited . <URL> will provide you with 50MB of data per day $ 27.50 for the first day and $ 3.50 per day afterwards . Alternatively , you can receive 1GB for $ 65 and $ 45 per GB ( or part thereof ! ) over 30 days . Not very flexible at all . Various countries have <URL> - but it works quite well across Europe . Unfortunately , you also have to pay expensive shipping costs for receiving and returning a <URL> . In Australia , it would cost me $ 68 just in shipping costs . Another option seems to be to obtain a pre-paid SIM in Europe and add a booster . <URL> has boosters that cost between # 1 for 3MB for a day , or # 5 for 20MB over a week , or # 10 for 50MB over 30 days . You may need to pay for some normal credit as well . You may also want to add a <URL> for normal calls .
This almost comes under ' opinion based ' , but we can treat it as a compare-and-contrast option . Hi from Sydney , BTW . Australia is huge . Literally similar in size to the US . That does n't mean you ca n't drive across it , but you have to take things into account that do n't occur to people compared with the US : gas stations are few and far between in some places there 's long distances with nothing in-between if you break down , you might not see anyone else for hours , or days . There 's a reason the main tourist trail is on the east coast - it 's where most people live , and where most of the interesting stuff is in terms of variety . A common backpacker route ( if doing a circle route ) is to go from say , Melbourne to Sydney ( perhaps via Canberra ) , up the coast to Byron Bay , Gold Coast and the Sunshine Coast , Cairns etc , then perhaps inland/across to Darwin , down to Alice Springs ( Uluru , woo ! ) , through to Coober Pedy and Adelaide ( with Kangaroo Island ) , and back to Melbourne , or at least a similar route with alternative starting points ( perhaps Sydney ) . Perth is usually considered a flight - most would n't consider driving , busing or training - although all are options . I 've bussed from Adelaide to Alice Springs , and that alone is 20 hours . I 've had relatives who lived in Derby ( near Broome ) for a while , and there 's not much else around . I 'd love to do the drive from Perth to Broome , but it 's long and there 's not much in-between to look at . So , it depends what you 're after . If you 've got the time to do a trip that you probably wo n't get much chance to head back and do again , maybe consider the harder Perth to Broome . If you 're after seeing the sights and places that Australia is known for , then you 're better off on the east coast . If you 're going to do both , fly or bus . You do n't want to be the tired driver driving in twilight , dodging kangaroos and worrying about the gas light that 's been on for 50km . Unless of course , that 's your thing ;)
Note - as Vince importantly pointed out , Les Arcs ( gare == bourg-st-maurice ) is perhaps the French ski station which is best-served by train ! For the record , I just clicked here <URL> and entered " Bruxelles " " Bourg Saint Maurice " There are a number of connections of about 7-8 hours , generally via Lyon . Or you could fly to Chambery then train . But it 's a nuisance to get from chambery airport to the chambery train station . If you do n't mind the incredibly long bus ride , probably just fly to Genève . Finally consider " which " Les Arcs you are going to ( 1800 , 2000 etc ) .
No , you do n't technically get the same status on other airlines . And it ca n't be requested . How it works is that Star Alliance has 2 generic levels of status - Star Alliance Gold and Star Alliance Silver . Each particular airline status corresponds to one of these two statuses . For example , if you 're a Silver at Continental , you 're also a Star Alliance Silver member . If you 're Platinum or Gold at Continental , you 're a Star Alliance Gold member . You can check out the equivalent for your particular airline at this page : <URL> What this means is that , if you have your frequent flyer number entered on all your reservations , when you fly with other airlines in Star Alliance , they will see that you are Gold/Silver and give you benefits accordingly ( lounge access , priority boarding , fast track ) . You can also earn miles with your own airline whenever you fly a Star Alliance member airline . However , this is n't the same as being a member of the other airline 's FFP . For one thing , airlines often restrict reward availability to partner rewards and retain some of the inventory for their own members . E : I wanted to add that you can technically ask for status on other airlines , if you are planning to switch all your flying to them . You can contact them and ask for a " status match " , which they will give you if they think you 're a high value passenger , and usually you 'll have to fly a certain amount within a certain number of weeks to retain the status .
So apparently <URL> , unlike other websites , allows you to book budget flights . Glad it helps ! note : low cost airlines do not make their flights available for booking in traditional tools so tools like momondo might not work forever , because it is based on web-scraping or such techniques ( for example if a low-cost airline changes its website it might break )
There are some routes where this is applied ; for example from the ME to Asia there are special exceptions on luggage weight on some airlines ( Kuwait Airways , for example ) . A few airlines I have flown on before have such allowances ; but I have only heard of them for students and repatriation ; but not for immigration and then not between those two countries specifically . A while ago , there was some hope : Singapore Airlines offer a double baggage allowance ( from the usual 20Kg to 40Kg ) providing you are holding an unused migrant visa that states to remain in Australia indefinitely . If you hold a valid visa , you will be entitled to the double baggage allowance on production of the visa at check-in . However I can not find this reference anywhere on the current website .
I was there last month , and while there 's no additional student discount , every traveller ( pretty much ) in the hostel used a 7 day Metro Card , for $ 30 ( plus a $ 1 activation fee for the card ) . This and other options ( hop-on/hop-off bus ) for you to look at are available on the <URL> . It was honestly the most convenient option . The subway goes almost anywhere you could possibly want to go as a tourist in that time ( I also stayed five days ) , and considering the price of a single journey , it 's well worth getting .
This kind of information changes very frequently , depending on how the owners of EDI price FastTRACK access and what airlines are willing to pay or pass through to passengers . Even at Heathrow , a vastly busier airport , access may change in a matter of months . FlyerTalk is generally reliable for such information , and according to various threads as of June 2013 , FastTrack access is reportedly complimentary for British Airways Silver and Gold members , and those ticketed in Business UK , Club Europe/World , and First Class ( I believe BMI Diamond Club has been fully integrated into the BA program ) Sapphire and Emerald-level members of OneWorld airline programs , anecdotally -- EDI is not listed on <URL> EasyJet passengers with " Speedy Boarder " access or EasyJet + cards Flybe passengers with " Flybe Plus " cards Air France Gold and Platinum members flying on CityJet You can buy Fast Track access from the vending machine for # 5 , and it is also included with some parking packages . I could not confirm any information for the other major airlines there , which include Aer Lingus , Air Canada , Germanwings , KLM , Lufthansa , Norwegian , Ryanair , Scandinavian , Thomas Cook , Turkish , and United .
It is possible ( for an unusually knowledgeable travel agent ) , but not easy . There are two fields in the PNR for each airline , the FQTV field ( frequent traveller number for mileage earning ) and the FQTS field ( frequent traveller number for status purposes ) . These can be set to different values . But airline IT systems are not always designed to understand that this can happen , so even if you manage to find a travel agent who understands what you are talking about , it is not guaranteed to work . If you use a tool like the free MyFlights tool , it will tell you which numbers you have attached to the booking and whether they are FQTV or FQTS ( or another type of FQT number ) . MyFlights is only available for Amadeus bookings .
Actually it 's not a tax , it 's a regular service fee . The information you are requesting can be found on the company website ( in Spanish ) : <URL> The service charge is 3 CUC ( + - 3 USD ) per day The minimal duration of a contract is 3 days You need to pay all the daily fees in advance for the period you will be using the line . Phone calls are paid independently You also need to add funds to your account for a minimum of 10 CUC ( + - 10 USD ) No internet service ( there is data roaming if you bring a phone from another country , but this is VERY expensive ) Additionally , there are wifi hotspots in most hotels and <URL> , there is an access fee of 2 CUC per hour that should be paid in advance .
Icelandair takes <URL> , such as Vaulting Poles , Windsurfing boards , Kayaks , between Europe and North America , for a fee of 16.400 ISK/117 EUR/168 USD each way . Their hub is ( unsurprisingly ) on Iceland , and they fly to a number of destinations in North America and Europe . For the U.S. East Coast , they currently fly to/from Boston , New York , Washington D.C. , and Orlando . Their European connections are mainly in western Europe . See their <URL> and their <URL> . ( I took a bicycle with Icelandair , and it was only 39 EUR extra from Stockholm to Toronto . Not bad at all , in my opinion ) ( I do not work for Icelandair , but I can still tell you that as a bonus , you can take a long layover on Iceland , I 'm sure it has excellent whitewater rafting ! This does n't cost any extra for the ticket . I do n't know if the no extra cost applies to baggage fees . )
So far ... Santiago , Chile-Xi ' an , China . 26h5m . The antipode of the Santiago airport is just east of Zhen ' an , China , which is <URL> 100km of the Xi'an airport . Fly <URL> with just one convenient layover in CDG and you 're there . I also like Aukland-Gibraltar ( or Tangier or Malaga , though the flights seem fastest to GIB and their airport is far more fun ) , as the airports work within the 100km buffer ( I found 31h55m to GIB via HKG and LHR ) . Taipai-Asunción , Paraguay is a nice pair , but I ca n't get the flights under 34h5m through cursory searches . Shanghai-Buenos Aires is awfully tempting given the potential for one-stop connections , but I ca n't make it work within the 100km and the ground transport is likely killer .
I think BA are pretty good with baggage - I fly with them quite a bit and I 've certainly never had any problems . ( They did have some major problems the first few weeks after T5 opened , but those are all now sorted and luggage generally works very well at T5 now ) There can always be problems though , so there are two things you should always do when travelling with checked luggage . The first is have travel insurance with decent delayed/lost baggage cover . This will mean that if your luggage is delayed , you 'll have some cash with which to buy necessities . ( The airline may cover some things , but usually not as much as a decent travel insurance policy will ) . Secondly , always take one set of underwear and a clean top in your carry-on . That way , if your luggage is delayed , you 've still got some clean clothes to wear the next day while you wait / go buy some other clothes . If there are two of you travelling , do n't pack exclusively " his " and " hers " ( or hers 'n hers ) suitcases . Put a couple of changes of clothes into the other person 's suitcase . That way , if one of you finds your bag delayed for 24 hours , you 've got some stuff . Otherwise , try to avoid very tight connections . Tight connections are often the source of delayed bags , because you can often run from one gate to another much faster than your bags can get offloaded , sorted and re-loaded . Things around the MCT are problematic in the events of delays , so be extra careful at busy / weather prone / delay prone airports . Finally , make sure your bags are in good condition , and do n't have things that could get eaten by machinery ( wrap them if they do ) . A suitcase with bits hanging off that 's on its last legs is much less likely to survive a problem than one in good condition ! For your case , book your flights as a single ticket ( it 's all oneworld so that should n't be an issue ) , that way if one flight is delayed there wo n't be any issues with getting put for free onto a later flight + receiving support ( food , overnight accommodation etc ) if needed . Most BA flights use T5 at Heathrow , CX use T3 , so both you and your bags need to change terminals . Factor that in to how long you have between the two ! Oh , and there are quite a few oneworld flights to Hong Kong every day from Heathrow ( 5 ? 6 ? ) , so if your bags do miss your flight for some reason , it should n't be too long to wait until the next one for them to come on !
Yes , particularly in your circumstance where the airline can see it occurred because of a delayed inbound flight . In that condition the delay has encroached into the " minimum connect time " between LGA and EWR ( which is three hours ) . If you were involved in a delay between LGA and EWR I would also expect to be re-accommodated . However this is a bit more difficult to assert and prove . ( All of this relies on these flights being on a single ticket -- that is , bought at the same time from one seller . ) By the way , you can write " LGA-EWR " as " LGA / / EWR " to indicate that you are not flying between LGA and EWR but using alternative transportation .
A type D visa , like a residence permit , allows you to make short trips to the other Schengen countries -- very much as if you held a long multiple-entry type C visa or were visa-free . You only need to comply with the 90-of-180 days rule for the days you spend in Schengen minus the Czech Republic . The " valid for " field on D visas state the issuing country rather than " Schengen States " , because it is only in that country you get the full rights implied by that visa . The less extensive rights to short visits is something one needs to just know . It is not true that you " can only enter EU from the Czech Republic " . You 're perfectly allowed to enter and exit the Schengen Area through any of the external borders . You should be prepared to explain and document that you 're on your way either to the Czech Republic or to an allowed short trip in one of the other Schengen countries . You should bring your passport such that you can identify yourself to any authorities that might ask . A student ID is unlikely to be accepted by police who are already suspicious enough to ask you for papers .
It is an IATA recommendation , and airlines tend to go with the minimum recommended in case the policy is in their favor , and opposite is true when the recommendation is against them : 3.2 PERIOD OF VALIDITY A ticket is valid for carriage for one year from the date of commencement of travel or if no portion of the ticket is used , from the date of issue thereof , except as otherwise provided in the ticket , these Conditions or Carrier 's Regulations . There are conditions in which the validity is extended . Basically when it is the airline 's mistake , such as cancelling a flight or so . Many airlines include this in their " General Conditions of Carriage &amp; Tariffs " , some types of tickets have less validity , usually the discounted tickets ( ~ 3 months ) . Source : <URL>
The airline can move passengers around , even if they have chosen seats ( you 'll always see the disclaimer when you choose a seat online ) - whereas the online booking system wo n't necessarily know if it can do this . Also , the airline may have more up to date knowledge of cancellations at that stage . So the problem is n't the airline making it look like there are few remaining seats , but that the system wo n't let you move other passengers in order to fit a group in at short notice . When I make late bookings with the family , I just plan for the fact that we may all have to sit in different areas on the plane . Sometimes it can be sorted , but certainly not every time . That 's the hazard of late booking .
Just to clarify first , travelling on rooftops happens on small train routes - local trains that stop at each and every small station , typically not run using electric engines , slow routes et al. . For most long distance travel , this will not be the case . The stereotypical image of people hanging out of train coaches used as filler shots in montages in documentaries on India is usually that of the Mumbai Suburban Railway network ( and boy is that crazy ) . India is a massive country and airfares are nowhere near cheap as of yet for common people to travel with their family . Consequently , railways rather than planes or buses carry a majority of the inter-city traffic . Families plan trips months rather than weeks in advance and it 's a crapshoot getting a reservation simply because there 's so much demand to meet ! Trying to book your tickets in advance is therefore very much advised . Many trains have ' unreserved ' coaches which you can buy ( extremely cheap ! ) tickets for on the day of travel itself and get on-board . However , these usually packed full - and I mean full . Sitting / standing space only . Very uncomfortable if you 're travelling long distance or overnight , as some journeys take 1-2 ( or even three ! ) days to complete . Having said that , some of my most memorable train journeys have been when I 've just gone to the station and gone in unreserved coaches . Slightly costlier these are ' second sleeper ' ( two bunks per column ) , ' second sitting ' ( seats only ) , and ' three-tier sleeper ' ( three bunks in one column ) . These are reserved coaches and you technically , you need to have a reservation to get on - which means you need to book at least a week or a fortnight in advance . At least , the reality is you have to book even earlier sometimes . However , the implementation of how strictly rules are enforced really depends on what part of India you are in . Do n't be surprised if a party with reservation for three climbs on-board with six people and they all share the space - it 's part of how train travel works in India ! And man , the amount of luggage they bring on ( technically there are rules on how much luggage per person you can take on-board but this is never enforced ) . What I 've see is in southern and western India , rules are implemented fairly strictly , i.e. , you need to have a reservation to get on . In northern , central and eastern India , it is far more common to see people who have bought tickets but not gotten a reservation climb on board anyway and share seating space with strangers , or perhaps pay a bribe to the ticket checker to ignore the fact you do n't have a reservation . So even if you do have a reservation , you might end up having to share some space anyway . As a foreigner though you will find most people will go out of their way to be friendly with you , even give up whole bunks for you to sleep while they sit . Doing this for ' guests ' is an essential belief many Indians hold . In any non air-conditioned or ' standard ' coaches , you will be travelling with some of poorest in Indian society and you 'll definitely be the centre of curiosity . Expect people to talk and be inquisitive about you , and do n't be freaked out by it . How easy it is to get a reservation is also a factor of how much you have to pay . It 's easier to get reservations in air-conditioned coaches or express trains that take shorter times , simply because most people go for the cheapest trains . For you , the price difference will probably be inconsequential between second sleeper in the fastest train and second sleeper in the slowest mail train , so go for the express trains whenever you can . Also , <URL> . Seats on Indian trains are allocated according to quotas : there 's a separate quote for senior citizens , women , armed forces personnel , ' general ' travellers , railway employees ... too many categories if you ask me ! You can always buy general category tickets , but if you pay for the ' foreigner quota ' ones then basically you 're just competing with other travellers rather than ' everyone else ' . Prices are higher though . On that note , you might also want to look at <URL> . An increasing amount of seats on any given train these days are reserved for ' tatkal ' quota tickets ( it means ' instant ' in Hindi ) . Bookings for these tickets open one day before the day of travel and you pay <URL> but if you 're the sort of person who plans last minute , these tickets are your best shot . They still run out fast so rather than trying to go to the station a day before to book , get up early in the morning and book them online at <URL> ( the official railway ticket booking site ) or <URL> / <URL> ( two travel search sites that are authorised to sell tickets on behalf of IRCTC ) . You can show a printout of your ticket or even have them delivered as an SMS . You pay cheaper prices than the foreign quota tickets , and you get to make spontaneous plans . Win win !
Numerous airlines worldwide have inflight WiFi . Within the US , Wifi is available on at certain flights from ( at least ) the following airlines : Air Tran ( All planes ) , Alaska , American Airlines , Delta , JetBlue , SouthWest , United ( p.s. flights only ) , US Airways , Virgin The majority of these airlines use ground-based connections , using technology similar to mobile phone data connections . Most use technology and services from <URL> . A smaller number of airlines use trialing Satellite-based systems , which obviously work better for routes over water ( eg , trans-Pacific or trans-Atlantic ) . <URL> is the most common provider in this space . Performance is generally suitable for general web browsing , but not for services such as video streaming . In fact , most services specifically block video streaming services like NetFlix . Internet service is only available above 10,000 feet ( similar to other electronic devices ) .
end question
start question
How to make change ( to get coins from a banknote ) in Italy ?
Enter a bar or supermarket and ask if they can change your 10 $ bill into 1 $ / 2 $ coins for the parking . Repeat again in some other place . Probably they will stare badly at you . You 're not obliged to consume or buy anything . Be warned that some cashiers may refuse your request . This is a common behaviour even for italians . <URL> reports that parking meter accept " bancomat " ( debit card ) . An alternative would be to buy a pre-paid Verona Park coupon .
This should not be an issue in big stations . Usually they have an international ticket desk . Though my experience does n't include Germany , I was able to buy tickets for foreign trains in France ( for Italian , Spanish and Belgian trains ) , in the Czech Republic ( for Swedish trains ) , in Sweden ( for German and Italian trains ) , and probably others that I do n't remember .
If you 're using a booking engine such as <URL> , the rule of thumb says that the earlier the better , while it 's possible that later on some hotels will offer campaign prices , or as you mentioned , you might catch some last-minute deals . Those are exceptions though , you should not hope for a significant save over a reservation booked well in advance . My suggestion is , in case you 're certain about the travel dates , make your reservations as early as possible on the options with free cancellation , then later on check the website regularly to see whether it 'd be beneficial to change your reservation . Mostly though , this will not result in a significant financial gain , rather finding better or more suitable hotels in the same price range .
There 's a railway station at Old Trafford itself , handily called " Manchester United Foodball Ground " . Looking at the <URL> it looks to be right by the stadium , and <URL> concurs . The <URL> suggests that trains to Old Trafford depart from Manchester Picaddilly , so that should make things easy . However , <URL> suggests trains only stop there on match days , so it depends if you 're going to see the stadium , or a match there . There are <URL> Metrolink tram stations a short walk away , Exchange Quay and Old Trafford . If it is n't a match day , your best bet is probably to change onto the tram to get there .
You could acclimatize yourself to raw fish now . I am not a big fan of fish and I do not find it hard to avoid fish products when I 'm in Japan ( although I suppose I could be consuming them unwittingly ) . In most large , commercial places the Japanese are quite accepting of foreigners ' strange requirements , although in the smaller restaurants and bars where English is not spoken you will find it difficult . You could try this website for more advice : <URL> and I am sure Google can furnish you with many others .
There are definitely more buses than that ( not a lot more , but still ) , at least in the summer when there are a lot of tourists around , but information is difficult to find on the Internet . There are many different companies and they do n't all have up-to-date schedules on their website . The site <URL> seeks to gather information about public transport in Corsica and has information in both English and French . I recommend reading their <URL> . From <URL> , they list two buses a day in the summer ( late June to early September ) , taking a little over 2 hours . In the winter there 's only a single weekday bus . Alternatively there is a <URL> , taking a little over 3 hours , with 2 connections a day at different times in <URL> and <URL> . From <URL> , it 's not so good . The only suggestion is a combination of three buses , the last one being the Bastia to Calvi bus -- Bonifacio-Bastia-Calvi would be easier than Bonifacio-Calvi-Bastia . You 'd take the early morning or midday <URL> ( do check because that company have n't announced their July schedule yet ! ) , then <URL> and change as Casamozza for the <URL> , taking about 5 hours total .
Use the <URL> to find the best exchange rate in the city ( <URL> works great for Russian ) : As of today , <URL> has the best rates .
2-3pm is not rush hour in Tokyo . However , many central subway stations in Tokyo require you to climb flights of stairs to enter , exit or transfer lines , which is not much fun with large bags , and while there 's usually a single elevator somewhere , this can add a lengthy detour . If you can tell me exactly where you 're going , I can try to recommend a least-bad route . If you 've got large bags and/or are unfamiliar with Tokyo , the Limousine bus direct to your hotel is usually the best option , but availability depends on the destination . I 'd suggest two other alternatives : Take the airport train to the nearest major taxi station , then a taxi to your final destination . ( This is what I usually do . ) A cab from Tokyo Station to most destinations in Chiyoda should be less than 1000 yen . Ship your bags directly from the airport to your hotel with <URL> . This is particularly useful if you 're hardcore and plan to go to the office/customer site before your hotel . Same-day delivery for a full-size suitcase is ~ 2400 yen and the service is extremely reliable ( although at 2 PM you will most likely get it delivered the next morning ) .
Priceline has a policy against giving receipts that evidence payment because of how they process payments . The solution is to request a receipt from an airline agent at the ticket counter or gate , before the flight .
As a Munich native I simply ca n't just move on after seeing this question =) Please forgive me if I expand the scope of this question too much - but there is simply no way to explain the biggest Volksfest in one or two sentences . There are quite some different factors influencing your chance to get your Mass beer : Yourself If you 're travelling alone and therefore only need to seat a single person you might always get some free centimeters on a Bierbank as long as the tents are not closed . Couples and small groups ( maximum of four or five persons ) who are able to wait patiently and sober ( you wo n't get something to drink as long as you do n't have a place to sit down ) , while a drunken horde is dancing on the tables around them , have a realistic chance of capturing a fair amount of space . But be aware of the fact that you will need to defend the new gained territory against others ! Larger groups really need to develop negotiation skills ( bavarian tongue preferred ) or arrive much earlier . The party tent Beer tents are like clubs : divided in different areas . There are boxes mostly reserved by local companies to amuse their partners , clients and staff . You wo n't get into one if you are not invited ! The largest part of the tents is offered as first come , first served . These areas have the highest demand and get really crowded . Outside and around most of the tents you find so called beer gardens which mostly do not have a roof upon . These places are seeked for by families , elderlies and those who want to escape the enormous noise level inside the tents . Here is a constant coming and going . ( Good chances to catch some seats ) Food is also served out here . The day of choice The first weekend attracts the largest crowds . Simply do n't try to come here on the first day . Local youths and young adults get to the Wiesn on the first crack of dawn just to wait until noon when the first beer is served . Also simply avoid the last day of Oktoberfest : locals mourn about the ending of the fifth bavarian season . People are queuing up in front of the tent entrances already before 7 o'clock . Sounds like the second weekend is the perfect time spot to have some beers ? The one in the middle is traditionally called the Italian weekend . Around 200.000 Italians cross the alps to populate the tents - that could get a bit crowded . On Tuesdays all rides offer special prices for families and kids . That 's why the whole Theresienwiese is jam-packed with small humans from toddlers to teenagers . A good day to escape from the hordes to a tent for one or two ( or some more ) beers . The weather Sunny and hot weather makes the Wiesn show her beauty : Everybody heads to the Oktoberfest and needs to get some beer to cool down . Tents close at least an hour earlier than usually . Bad and rainy weather in the morning keeps the large crowds off . This gifts you some time : the tents close later . On weekdays the tents are sometimes not closed at all . A sudden rain break out in the afternoon drives everybody into the tents . Those might be closed within a few minutes . TL/DR Both statements quoted in the question describe the situation rather good . On weekdays arrive at least before three or four o'clock . On weekends try to get to the Festwiese around 8 o'clock . But as long as you stay friendly and ask kindly you always might find a little spot and you will make contact to great people from all over the world . So have fun , enjoy our beer and have a safe way home . See you in September ;)
By public transport it 's little harder to get there , but yes , it is possible : 1 ) Go to Brno first . The easiest and most comfortable is by bus with the company <URL> ( it 's very popular transport - I recommend to buy a ticket in advance - you can do it online ) 2 ) Brno to Blansko by train and Blansko to Punkva caves by bus Search departures on <URL> ( there is English version ) Fill in : and enjoy beauties of Czech Republic ! :)
Every ( tourist ) hostel in the old town of Cartagena in Colombia can arrange a taxi for you at any time . I would think any hotel can as well . If you 're on your own , you could try your best at calling a taxi company and arranging a pickup . But , asking for help at one of the tourist offices would probably be a better bet . Unless your Spanish is good . If you are comfortable walking through the old town in the middle of the night , taxis are waiting for rides on the eastern corner of the old town , near <URL> . I 've never been to the airport in Cartagena , but considering it 's not a small town , I would think that aiming for 4AM would not be a bad idea . But , that 's speculation .
There are a few companies in Tarapoto that go to Chachapoyas , we asked around and we found Movil tours ( big buses ) and Turismo Selva ( combi ) that went direct to Chachapoyas and Excluciva ( big buses ) and Virgen tours ( combi ) that went to Pedro Ruiz . Pedro Ruiz is a common stop along that route , on the way back we stopped there and flagged a combi type van that took us back to Tarapoto . There 's very frequent vans on that route so it 's always possible to just signal to one and if there 's space they 'll take you . In the end we went with Turismo Selva because they had the earliest departures ( 7am ) and it cost 35 soles .
Enter a bar or supermarket and ask if they can change your 10 $ bill into 1 $ / 2 $ coins for the parking . Repeat again in some other place . Probably they will stare badly at you . You 're not obliged to consume or buy anything . Be warned that some cashiers may refuse your request . This is a common behaviour even for italians . <URL> reports that parking meter accept " bancomat " ( debit card ) . An alternative would be to buy a pre-paid Verona Park coupon .
Passenger transport between the Kraków bus station and the John Paul II Airport in Balice runs via a dedicated railway line on the route Balice Airport - Main Station ( departures approximately every half-hour , travel time 15 min ) or by bus line no. 292 ( travel time approx . 40 min ) <URL> This train calls Balice Ekspres . But since 1st February 2014 it is not worked because of modernisation railways . So the best way is take a bus 292 or taxy . There you can find timetable of 292 bus from T1 terminal of Krakow airport : <URL>
Well according to <URL> : The nearest Cambodian town is Stung Treng , and the border is a 90-minute speedboat or bus ride away . Note that the border is lightly used , with almost no onward public transport available at the border ( therefore book through transport from Stung Treng to Ban Nakasang for Si Phan Don/Don Det ) and both customs officers and transport providers have a reputation of gouging foreigners , although this seems to have improved recently ( currently both Cambodian and Laos border officials request US$ 1 stamp fee per country ) . Crossing the border ( Oct 2010 ) the Cambodia officers will ask for US$ 1 for exit stamp.You can tell them you do n't have any and they will still stamp it . On the Laos side they will demand $ 2 for entry stamp , if you refuse they will not stamp it , ( you will need the stamp to get out ) , so you have no choice than to pay the bribe . Note if you cross the border by boat , you will have to return by road to the border checkpoint to officiate your arrival ( ie . get your passport stamped ) in Laos . As for top destinations , that 's something we try to avoid a bit - see the [ faq ] , we do n't want to do lists or subjective answers about what makes a destination a ' top ' destination , but <URL> that the Plain of Jars , Wat Phu , the three-layered gilded stupa of Pha That Luang ( national symbol ) and of course the natural wonders - the Mekong delta flatlands in the south .
The other answers are correct . There is no such train . As an alternative to Milan -- Munich followed by domestic connections to the Rhine valley , you may also consider the <URL> sleeper , followed by a TGV <URL> . To the upper Rhine valley in Germany , this connection includes a night train followed by 1 1/2 hour TGV , and may be less of a detour than the connection via Munich . You will arrive in Dijon at 6:34 , with better or worse connections to Basel at several occasions during the morning . To the lower Rhine valley , the connection via Munich is probably better .
There are boats between Battambang and Siem Reap , they leave in the morning ( around 7am ) and take most of the day . You spend several hours on a small river where you can see tons of animals and birds , later you cross Tonle Sap Lake , the last part to Siem Riep is by jeep . It takes a while but its a great ride . The fruit shakes in Battambang are spectacular , do n't miss them . Edit : I just noticed , that you want to go from Siem Riep to Battambang , not the other way . They boats run in both directions , so the information above still applies .
city bus , line - ticket 2.40 PLN ( ~ 0.56 $ ) night bus , line - ticket 2.80 PLN ( ~ 0.66 $ ) taxi - less than 50 PLN ( ~ 12 $ ) If you are taking day bus and want to get to main market square , quit bus at " Renoma " stop and follow Świdnicka street . If you want to get to train or bus station , quit bus at " Dworcowa " stop ( the last one ) .
To find a specific answer , your best bet is to use the <URL> . Tell it exactly when you want to leave , how fast your walk , if you want to minimise walking and/or changes ( eg due to baggage ) , and it 'll give you an answer In general through , from Covent Garden to Heathrow , there are two options . One is slightly quicker , one is a lot cheaper . Option one - board a Heathrow bound Piccadilly Line train . There 's roughly one every 7 minutes for most of the day . Take that all the way to Heathrow , should take just under an hour ( 50-55 minutes once your onboard ) . Then , walk to your terminal , allow about 10 minutes . It 's a zone 1 - zone 6 single , unless you have a travel card . Using an Oyster card , off-peak it 's # 3 for the journey . Alternately , make your way to Paddington Station , then take the Heathrow Express . From Paddington there 's 4 trains an hour , journey time of about 15 minutes to T1/T2/T3 , 20 minutes to T5 , absolute age to T4 because you have to change ... From Covent Garden to Paddington , there 's two options . You can either take a Piccadilly Line train to Piccadilly Circus and change to Bakerloo line . Or , if you do n't have too much luggage , enjoy a pleasant 10 minute walk from Covent Garden down to Charring Cross , then 10 minutes on the Bakerloo up to Paddington . I 'd say that with changes and waits for trains , allow about 30-35 minutes either way from Covent Garden to being at the Heathrow Express platform in Paddington . As such , the Heathrow Express option is n't looking much quicker , but is looking about # 20 more expensive !
end question
start question
I am travelling from India to Kosovo via Turkey - do I need a visa as an Indian citizen ?
Kosovo : Based on the list <URL> from the Kosovo Ministry of Foreign Affairs , you do indeed need a visa as an Indian citizen . Based on <URL> , it seems you can arrange to mail your passport to one of the visa issuing locations . Based on the <URL> page , there is no requirement to show up in person to submit the visa request . Further , one of those locations is in Istanbul . Additionally , based on the QA website linked , and the <URL> section of the Kosovo MOFA , it seems holders of multi-entry Schengen visas do not need a special visa to enter Kosovo . However , it is unclear from the documentation if that visa is valid for the full 90 days , or for only 15 days ( <URL> ) . If you take a look at a map of Kosovo , you will see that it only borders Serbia to the North . While not recognized by Serbia , Kosovo is recognized by over 100 nations and has permanent membership in several major global institutions . I suggest <URL> . However , if you plan to stay away from the northern part of Kosovo , there seems to be no reason why you would need a Serbian visa . The information in that post is echoed/backed-up by <URL> . Further , <URL> that Serbian border guards might deny entry into Serbia if they see a stamp from Kosovo . Turkey : For transiting , as long as you do not leave the airport terminal , you should not have any need for a Turkish visa . This is common practice is most countries . Also , see <URL> . Based on <URL> , if you wish to visit Turkey as an Indian citizen you do indeed need a visa . Much like Kosovo , there is a special provision that will fast-track you for an e-Visa if you already have a Schengen visa .
Your residence permit allows you to re-enter China . There is no need for an additional Z-Visa since the residence permit - as long as it is still valid - replaces the single-entry Z-Visa . You can understand the Z-Visa as a <URL> to get your residence permit . It is not needed afterwards anymore . Your residence permit works as a multiple entry visa .
If you travel Portugal - Germany - Egypt , you will stay in the Schengen area till you leave Germany , you will have an internal Schengen area flight and get out of the Schengen area when you leave Germany . If your layover is long enough you can leave the airport . For most European airports they advise not to leave the airport if your stop is less than 5 hours , but it does differ between the different airports . On the other hand , if you fly from Portugal to Egypt and then to Germany , you would have left the Schengen area when leaving Portugal and would not be allowed into Germany , as your visit would be a second entry into the Schengen area .
As far as I can tell reading on the embassies websites there is no reason for them to stop you at the airport at either destination . With the switch in BKK ( Bangkok ) I believe you will not enter customs and your luggage is automatically forwarded . The people at Bangalore have the option of stopping you if they think you will be refused entry to your destination . If your passport is enough to get you a Visa On Arrival then there is no reason for them to refuse you the flight . Also there is a chance Hong Kong would refuse you if you can not prove your continued itinerary , for that reason there is a chance they will stop you at Bangalore on the same grounds . A return ticket fixes this , or proof of continued traveling to other destination . So bring the usual stuff , your passport and ( return ) tickets . Good luck !
Australian citizens do not need a visa for short visits to the Schengen area ( including Germany ) , whether for business , tourism or any other purpose . However , you can not work in Germany without a specific authorization . I am not sure of the exact legal definitions but things like meeting clients , attending a trade-show , etc. are typically business activities while being employed by a German company to do something on site would be work .
Short answer : Yes Long Answer : You are required to have the following : Ghanaian visa application form Original , signed United States passport with at least 6 months of remaining validity Two passport-size photographs of applicant . Should be taken at least within the last three months Visa Fee - money order , postal order , cashiers check or certified bank check Itinerary Evidence of financial support or letter of invitation from host in Ghana All persons entering Ghana are requested to have a valid certificate of immunization against yellow fever . Travelers may be required to present it at the port of entry in Ghana . Applications submitted by mail must be accompanied by prepaid self-addressed overnight , trackable envelope ( FEDEX ) for return of passports . Only requests accompanied by certified prepaid return envelopes will be processed . Source / Credit : <URL>
Yes you need a visa to enter Turkey , according to <URL> United States of America : Ordinary and official passport holders are required to have visa to enter Turkey . They can obtain three month-multiple entry visas from Turkish diplomatic representations abroad and also via the website <URL> . Please note , no more visa stickers on border crossings , you have to obtain the e-visa in advance : As of April 17 , 2013 , electronic visa ( e-Visa ) replaces " sticker visa " which was issued at the border crossings . Applicants just need to log on to www.evisa.gov.tr , provide the requested information , ( after the application is approved ) make online payment and download their e-Visa . The e-visa is easy to obtain and takes 24 hours to be issued , as mentioned in the <URL> page : Your e-Visa will be e-mailed to you within 24 hours after completion of your application . Note : The e-Visa 's introduced in 2013 are now becoming mandatory . Sticker visas will not be available at border crossings beginning April 10th , 2014 . If you needed a visa before , you must now obtain it in advance . This includes US citizens . There are even more restrictions on arrival for many other countries .
As an Indian national with a US Visa transiting a French airport you do not generally require a visa , as you can TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) . Presuming you are passing through Paris CDG airport , then this is true even if you have to change terminals as there is an air-side bus . ( At Paris ORY airport some transfers can not be made airside and will require a visa ) . However TWOV will NOT allow you to enter the country , and the Eiffel tower is not even slightly visible from either airport ! Thus to visit the Eiffel Tower - or any other part of Paris - you will require a visa . As you are planning to leave the airport , you are most likely after a Schengen " Short Stay " visa , which will have to be issued by a French embassy due to the only country you 're planning to visit being France . Unfortunately this means that it 'll end up being a relatively expensive visit to La Tour Eiffel .
The answer is indeed no ; no visa or ESTA of any kind needed for a visit of 90 days or less . Here 's what the <URL> has to say : ENTRY / EXIT REQUIREMENTS FOR U.S. CITIZENS : Austria is a party to the Schengen Agreement . As such , U.S. citizens may enter Austria for up to 90 days in any 180-day period for tourist or business purposes without a visa . The passport used should be valid at least for the period of the intended stay ( usually the date of the return flight ) . Anyone intending to stay longer than 90 days must obtain the appropriate visa issued by the Austrian Embassy in the United States . Specifically students attending a college/university in Austria should consult with the Austrian Embassy/Consulate before coming to Austria . Information for students is available from the Austrian agency for international mobility and cooperation in education , science and research ( OeAD ) . Also , technically one can only need an <URL> for the United States , as it 's related to the <URL> . Similar systems in other counties are called something else than " ESTA " .
The Myanmar entry permits granted at Mae Sai/Tachileik are not full-fledged visas : they 're only good for 14 days and do not allow travel elsewhere in Myanmar , and this is enforced by them keeping your passport ! On the upside , they 're granted to anybody with a crisp 10-spot and a pulse , and I suspect that second requirement is optional . Details at <URL> . And it 's a good thing you do have that Thai double-entry visa , since Immigration has recently ( May 2014 ) <URL> . Obviously this only applies to people abusing visas on arrival though , and I 'm kind of curious about what they can realistically do to a busted visa runner returning from Tachileik , as there 's literally no other way out than through Thailand -- probably a toss between a short this-is-your-final-entry stamp , or a spell in Immigration detention before they deport you through Bangkok .
When Kosovo grants Turkish citizens visa-free entry for short stays , it is a sign that they do n't plan to subject most entering Turks to greater scrutiny than what can reasonably be done on the fly at the border checkpoint . This has to mean that they do n't routinely demand extensive paperwork such as letters of invitation -- if they did , there would be a visa requirement so they had a chance to get a good look at it in peace and quiet . So unless you arouse more suspicion in the border guard than most other Turks do , what you will need is just your passport , and convincing answers to standard questions : What is the purpose of your trip ? Where will you stay ? When and how will you leave Kosovo again ? Be prepared to document your accommodation bookings , tickets for the journey back home , and that you have enough money for your expenses during the trip . ( if you think you do look suspicious , arm yourself with as much documentation as you can lay your hand on , and hope for the best ) .
For EU citizens <URL> but you have to make several distinctions here . The fact that the police can and does check ID does not mean it 's mandatory for everybody to have one on them . Conversely , the fact that there should be no systematic check at the border does not mean that it can not be mandatory to carry ID ( it 's the case in the Netherlands for example and yet actual checks seem rare in my experience ) . Rules can also be different for locals , EU citizens and third-country nationals . For example , regarding the first incident , French citizens are not even required to hold a national ID card at all but it 's still perfectly legal for the police to do ID checks under certain conditions , even far away from the border ( <URL> or on <URL> ) . I think that even for third-country nationals ( and certainly for French citizens ) , not having any means to prove your identity on you is not per se a punishable offense . The police might keep you for a few hours to ascertain who you are by other means or be generally unpleasant but you can not be charged with anything just because you left your passport at home . Furthermore it should be pointed out that racial profiling has long been a problem in France . I have no way to independently assess how widespread it really is but I heard many anecdotes and some organizations regularly complain about it . There are even a few official reports that acknowledged the problem and , back when he was still running for office , the current president promised a number of specific measures to deal with it . <URL> but this gives you some idea of the context . Now , under the Schengen agreement , France committed herself not to perform systematic checks at her borders . But anything else still depends on national law . For example , being part of the Schengen area does not mean that nobody can ever be asked for ID on French territory . Nor does it provide you with any practical recourse if you are victim of racial profiling or if you suspect French police is bending the rules . If France really is in breach of the Schengen agreement , this is something other EU member states and especially the EU Commission might deal with in several ways ( potentially escalating to an infringement procedure in front of the EU court of justice ) but that does not immediately help you in practice . In fact , French law even specifically allows the police to ask people for ID at all times in border areas , on international trains and <URL> . In 2011 , the Commission looked at what France was doing and <URL> but did not go further or challenge the law itself . <URL> has been writing extensively about checks at the France-Italy border and elsewhere so it seems to be a relatively common occurrence . All this also means that there are no EU or Schengen-wide rule that would definitively answer your question . It 's certainly not mandatory to always carry ID everywhere but since police checks do happen , carrying your passport seems like a good idea in practice , especially as a non-EU citizen .
Unless you have some very specific document like a limited territorial validity Schengen visa , a récépissé for an asylum application or a temporary visa delivered to let you leave the country after receiving an obligation de quitter le territoire français , chances are you have the right to transit in another Schengen country with your French visa ( it 's the case for most long-stay visas -- work , student , family ... -- for example ) . But in any case Basel EuroAirport is entirely on French territory so you should not worry . In practice , half of the terminal building is designated as the " Swiss part " of the airport with a special road and parking area to reach it from Switzerland without having to complete customs formalities for France but it should not impact you , you can use the French/German/EU half to enter the airport , check in , etc. and proceed to the international transit area like you would in any other French airport . One thing you can not do however if you want to avoid setting foot on Swiss territory is take the train to Basel and the bus to the airport from there ( if memory serves , public transport connections are better from the Swiss side than from Mulhouse or Saint-Louis or wherever it is you can find a bus to the airport in France ) .
Nope . For new visas , you only ever need your active , current passport - specifically ( if you have two or more citizenships ) , the passport you intend to travel to the country ( in this case Japan ) on . You may be asked for other documentation - e.g. proof of funds , accommodation and so on , but you wo n't need the past passports . They 're considered invalid documents for the purpose of acquiring a visa . Edit : Included <URL> .
Smog is becoming more of a problem with urbanization , especially in developing countries with fewer restrictions on emissions control . ( <URL> ) In cities like Beijing , where it 's a serious problem , there 's often a government or city board that monitors it and provides warnings . In Beijing , that 's the The Beijing Municipal Environmental Monitoring Center . Usually when smog levels are high or dangerous , they 'll release a statement . So if you 're concerned , keep an eye or ear out for their announcements . What to do about it ? Well one government , at least , has provided some suggestions . The Ministry of Environment ( MoE ) in Canada , produced a website on <URL> . The key points : avoid exertion outdoors replan activities for when smog levels are lower stay away from high traffic areas ( exhaust fumes make it worse ) stay in a well-ventilated place drink plenty of fluids if you experience any symptoms ( shortness of breath , etc ) seek medical attention ! They also have information on how you can help to reduce levels ( on the same page ) .
No , you do not need an ESTA . In this context , " transit " means travelling from country A to country B with a stop in the USA on the way . You are already in the USA and are not intending to enter or leave , so your flight is a domestic flight . The ESTA and VWP rules do not apply . As a domestic flight passenger , you will not encounter US Customs and Border Protection officers . You will still have to pass through airport security ( TSA ) , but that applies to all flights and they do not deal with visa issues at all .
Roundabouts are called ' traffic circles ' Traffic lights are called ' robots ' There are many more 4-way stop signs , including on major roads . Arrows painted on roads are used to indicate lane splitting into two rather than an upcoming intersection in the road . There are people in parking lots wearing fluorescent vests who " look after the cars " . They may be employed by the owner of the parking lot , but might just be hoping for a tip . You may see people leaving them a tip of some coins e.g. 1-2 rand . Watch for animals such as a baboons on the road . Trucks and slow vehicles may pull off onto the shoulder to allow you to overtake . They will sometimes signal that you should overtake by putting their right blinker on . A general rule : ' yield to traffic approaching from the right ' . City speedlimit : 60km/h Highway/freeway speedlimit : 120km/h Police use individual speed cameras , so your vehicle 's speed is measured once and if your speed is over the limit , you 'll get issued with a fine ( they do n't use the average speed over a certain distance as measured by two cameras placed some kilometres appart ) . The highways in the Gauteng province have ' etolls ' , measured by gantries across the highway , some people pay their toll bills , some people do n't . Drivers often do n't use their indicators when turning . Minibus taxis often stop at any spot along the road , without pulling off . Many larger vehicles ( trucks , buses ) are n't roadworthy ( brake lights and indicators not working , and no emission control on the exhaust fumes ) . Beware of pedestrians crossing the road at any spot they wish ( jaywalking is n't enforced ) . You may also find pedestrians and cyclists on the highway . No cycle lanes in the cities , they mostly ride on the shoulder of the road . Watch out for potholes and unmarked speed bumps . When the traffic lights are malfunctioning or are completely off ( this happens a lot ) , treat them as a 4-way stop , and make eye contact with other drivers to make sure they 're not going to skip the intersection without stopping . Always keep your windows closed and do n't interact with beggars or vendors at traffic lights . Keep your cellphone , wallet , purse out of sight ( do n't leave it on the passenger seat ) . Keep your vehicle doors locked at all times .
There is a <URL> to check if you need a transit visa or not . This is from the <URL> website : If you are coming to the UK briefly as part of your journey to another country , you will generally need to obtain a UK visa before you travel . If you will arrive on a flight , remain in the arrival lounge of the airport without through immigration control , and then depart on another flight from the same airport , you should apply for a direct airside transit visa . If you will arrive in the UK , pass through immigration control and then leave the UK within 48 hours , you should apply for a visitor in transit visa . If you will spend more than 48 hours in the UK , you must obtain another type of visitor visa before you travel . The Visiting the UK section lists the types of visitor visa . In some circumstances you may be exempt from the need to obtain a visa - this is called the ' transit without visa concession ' . The Transiting the UK section contains more information , and explains how to apply for a transit visa . India is not on the <URL> that need a transit visa for Ireland . EDIT : I was just informed by a friend that if you hold a US visa you are except from a transit visa if the USA is your point of origin or destination . I checked the UK border agency site and saw no mention if it . If anyone can confirm this , that would be handy .
" Airline transit passengers travelling with a stopover at Dubai Airport ( or other UAE airport ) who do not leave the terminal building , do not need a UAE visa since they are not entering the UAE . " Taken from <URL> Moreover " Transit passengers stopping at Dubai International Airport for a minimum of 8 hours and meeting certain conditions mentioned below are eligible for obtaining a 96-hour transit visa . " from <URL> So technically you CAN NOT and therefore need not apply for a transit visa
No visa is required for transiting in Japanese airports if you have immediate flight connections regardless of nationality . Anyway , there is a <URL> which is intended for people who have longer layovers before transiting and want to go sightseeing or resting in Japan for few days ( up to 15 days ) .
end question
start question
What non third world country would allow me to work temporarily ?
Mostly if you 're 18-30 you can get working holiday visa for <URL> , <URL> and <URL> ( the ones I know of ) . Citizens of many countries can get these visas but Dutch for sure . As mentioned in the comments , as a EU passport holder , you also have the right to work anywhere in the EU , in Switzerland and in EEA countries ( Norway , Iceland , Liechtenstein ) with the possible exception of new EU members ( Romania and Bulgaria until 2014 and Croatia after that ) if your own country imposes restrictions to citizens from said new members .
The only universally accepted currency in Hungary is the forint , but euros are easily exchanged ( at good exchange rates ) and may be accepted as is ( at poor exchange rates ) in larger restaurants , shops , etc. . So if you have to have cash in hand before you arrive , rupees & rarr ; euros & rarr ; forint is likely an OK way to go , although you will lose twice on the exchange . However , <URL> .
<URL> allows what you 're looking for . Just type the country of origin and destination . It even allows you to set the destination as all the world instead of country . In Skyscanner you will also be allowed to make broad searches regarding time . You can specify the time windows of your flight as specific days , but also as a month ( eg. : departing in July ) . The results will be presented in form of a price calendar ( or graph ) and you can check the cheapest days .
Generally speaking , " yes " . A BA aircraft is registered in the UK and therefore is covered by the UK laws . Under the UK law it 's an offence not to obey the order of the flight crew while on the aircraft . Specifically , this is covered by the <URL> : A person must not while in an aircraft ... ( c ) intentionally interfere with the performance by a member of the crew of the aircraft of the crew member 's duties . As you can imagine , flight attendants ' duties include a lot of walking up and down the aisle , including rolling the trolley with food/drinks . If you are standing in the aisle you would be interfering with their duties . Additionally , they are tasked with ensuring the safety of passengers while in flight . If the " fasten seatbelts " sign comes on , it is their responsibility to ensure that all passengers are seated with seat belt fastened , therefore if you do not perform this , you are , in essence , intentionally interfering with the performance by a member of the crew . With the legal technicalities out of the way ... The air crew are also people and are very understanding ( usually ) of others ' needs . You should speak with them before the flight commences and explain the situation . Most likely they would allow you to stand to perform your prayer in the galley at the rear of the plane . Yet if the " fasten seat belt " sign is switched on , you will have to return to your seat and sit down - this will be mandatory .
best way was round-trip buis ticket ( A11 ) , costs 65 hk dollars .
If we have a look at the " what can you do " section of the 651 ( link <URL> ) it reads Your eVisitor lets you : enter Australia for up to three months during each visit during the 12 months from the date the eVisitor is granted So this seems that you can visit Australia for the next 12 months ( the 12 months start the day the visa is granted ) ; BUT you can stay there for only 3 months every time you go there . If you 're not married and plan to go alone have a look at the 417 too <URL>
When exactly does your OPT expire - at Christmas as you 've stated , or 60 days beforehand ? Presuming it expires at Christmas , then you are legally able to stay in the US for 60 days after expiry . You are NOT allowed to work during that period , but you can legally stay in the country for other purposes , so if you 're planning to be a tourist for less than 60 days , AND you do not plan to leave the US during that time , then you 're good ! Once you leave the US after the expiry of your OPT , then you are NOT allowed to re-enter using the OPT - even if it is still within the 60 day grace period . However , as a Canadian Citizen you are allowed to re-enter the US as a tourist . Technically there is no reason that you could not do the immediately ( " same day " ) , however as with all entries it is at the discretion of the immigration officials to determine if they believe you are entering for the purposes you 're stating or not . If they believe that you are re-entering the US for the purposes of working , then they can deny your entry . How likely this is to occur will depend on your exact situation - if it were me I would have as much paperwork as possible available to show that you are a tourist rather than returning to work .
Assuming we 're a ) choosing countries at random , regardless of size , population or popularity with tourists , b ) choosing languages that let us communicate where English does n't , and c ) ignoring how hard it is to learn the language , I 'd probably go with French and Arabic , although Spanish comes close too . As an <URL> , plus a whole bunch of non-country territories , French is a pretty clear # 2 to English . Arabic is a close second with <URL> ( not all recognized ) , and it 's of some use in the rest of the <URL> as well -- although realistically speaking , you 're not going to have much luck talking in modern Arabic to a cab driver in Jakarta . Spanish is n't too far behind with <URL> , and while not really mutually intelligible , it gives you a pretty big leg up in the <URL> too . You could even argue that , since quite a few countries in the Maghreb have both Arabic and French speakers , Spanish ( which has almost zero overlap ) is actually more useful . Fourth is probably Russian , which while not always official , is spoken by a large part of the population in <URL> . And some contenders that do n't make the top 4 : Chinese is the world 's undisputed # 1 language by number of native speakers , but it 's of very limited use outside China . Hindi/Urdu also have many native and secondary speakers , but virtually all of them are in India , Pakistan and Nepal , where you can usually find an English speaker without too much effort . ( This is not the case in eg . China . )
You have to make a distinction between the Schengen area on the one hand and the UK , Ireland , Cyprus , Romania , Bulgaria and Croatia on the other hand . All EU countries should grant your wife the right to travel together with you ( but not alone ) with minimal formalities but those that are not in the Schengen area might still require her to get a separate visa . For the Schengen area , you only need one visa . So if you want to go to Switzerland ( technically Switzerland is not in the EU but for this purpose , it 's pretty much the same for the time being ) , you would apply to the Swiss consulate . With the visa issued by the Swiss consulate you will also be able to travel in most of the EU without any other formalities ( but , again , not to the UK , Ireland , etc. ) If you really want to visit all non-Schengen EU countries , then yes , you might need up to 5 or 6 visas ( although Romania , Bulgaria , Croatia and Cyprus have some special rules for Schengen visa holders so it might be possible to go there with your wife 's Schengen visa as well ) . Furthermore , being married should in principle make things easier ( at least in the EU proper , not entirely sure about Switzerland , see comments ) . In your quote , " these " in " check what these are " should be something like a marriage certificate , not the whole documentation package ( insurance &amp; financials &amp; itinerary ) that other applicants have to provide and the consulates have very little discretion in deciding to issue the visa or not . The visa should also be free of charge ( regular Schengen visa fees are currently EUR 60 ) . Beware , however , all those rules only apply if you are travelling together as they are derived from your right , as EU citizen , to travel freely in the EU . Note that , since you are a UK citizen , these rules also do not generally apply to the UK . Going there might even be more difficult , depending on UK law .
The longest non-stop ( by <URL> source ) flight was Newark to Singapore on Singapore Airlines flight SQ21 which is and 18 hour 50 minute flight of some 15,345 km . However , as of November 2013 , Singapore Airlines has discontinued this route . However for single flight number , allowing stopover , things are hard to research . Not many websites list tables of distances by flight number . So I resorted to thinking of a route and then looking on the airline websites to see if it was one flight number or split over two flight numbers . I suspect the longest route that could be a single flight number and have a stopover would be Northern Europe to Australia . So I searched on several airlines for flights . I found a few contenders ( but no definitive answers ) : NZ1 and NZ38 , both on Air New Zealand fly London to Auckland with a stop in Hong Kong in 26 hours and 40 minutes . A distance of 18,463 km . QF320 on Qantas and BA15 on British Airways fly London to Sydney with a stopover in Singapore . They both take 22 hours and 50 minutes . QF1 on Qantas goes from Sydney to London , again stopping in Singapore and is 23 hours and 25 minutes .
It was fairly widely reported that fuel costs made the flights uneconomical . The maintenance of the A340-500s SIA retained specifically for the flight also contributed , as they only had five A340-500s . Sample quotes : It is widely known in the industry that SIA 's A340-500 non-stop flights to the U.S. are unprofitable , because of the four-engined aircraft 's higher fuel burn . Some SIA executives were also questioning why the carrier was going to the trouble of maintaining such a small fleet of A340s . <URL> Snyder and most other experts suspect the airline got tired of dealing with poor profit margins on the fuel-guzzling four-engine Airbus A340 . " They do use a ton of fuel , and that 's always painful , " says Snyder . <URL>
No , driving for women in Saudi Arabia is not allowed regardless of the nationality . What bothers me is , there is no clear rule in Saudi regarding driving for women , it is just not allowed ! someone came up with this idea years ago and this idea still rules ! that 's why the police gets confused when they have a case about this , they do not know what to do ! anyway things are heading to the right direction and hopefully soon this non-sense will stop and everyone can drive . FYI , women who live in small villages in the desert do drive !
<URL> runs a shuttle between Disney and Universal - but if there are more than three in your group it is almost always less expensive to take a metered taxi . ( Up to seven can ride for the price of one , depending on the vehicle ) . You can ask for an estimate of the fare before accepting the taxi . Looking around online , <URL> it 'll be about $ 30 one-way between the two locations . <URL> for $ 2.00 , but note that it 'll take considerably longer ( 1.25 hours vs 17-20 min ) , and you probably want to maximise your time at the parks :)
For virtually all international airports , as long as you are on a single itinerary with your bags booked through , you will stay in the transit area and do not need to clear immigration or Customs . However , if you purchased separate tickets for the two legs , this does not apply : you will need to pass through Immigration ( which may require visas etc ) , collect your bags and check them back in . Unfortunately the United States is , as ever , the odd one out . Transits through the US always require the full Immigration/Customs rigmarole , full stop . In the original poster 's case , a <URL> , Canada from/to the US , they 'll need to pass through at least a " lite " version of Canada Immigration/Customs even if they connect on <URL> , although there are some <URL> for citizens of some countries resident in the US . EDIT : Updated after Doc 's entirely accurate comment .
The <URL> cube series seems to be just what I am looking for . Still a packing cube design for easy access , but non-mesh for liquid protection . On top of that , it is translucent to allow cursory inventorying , and is supposed to be especially light . I 'll let you all know how my purchase fares .
It 's true you might not actually need hiking boots but you have to decide . Personally I did n't like the kind of backpackers that seemed to have all the expensive brand name gear whether they needed it or not . Felt a bit phoney to me when I was younger . So while others had $ 200 brand name hiking boots I had my cheap supermarket sneakers . I also felt the blingy stuff looked like $ $ $ dollar signs to potential thieves . I 'm not a serious hiker but I wore plain old sneakers all over the world in my travels for twenty years , including climbing volcanoes and in snow . This finally changed a bit when I took up hitchhiking last year . I had a heavy pack and spent a lot of time on the edges of roads which were often crumbly or wet or had a steep camber . A couple of times I came close to twisting my sneakers off my feet ! Then I found myself near a cheap chain outdoor gear shop on the edge of some Polish city while they had a sale on . For about $ 22 I got a decent pair of cheap non brand name non blingy functional hiking boots that are perfectly practical , that I knew would n't last forever , and that nobody would bother to steal . <URL> are definitely something I would buy again . They got me from Poland to Armenia , back to Frankfurt , up and down Korea and Japan a couple of times , and now from Istanbul to Albania and have finally started to let in a bit of water a year and a bit later . That 's great value for me ! I no longer carry sneakers travelling at all . I always wear my bulky stuff while I 'm actually moving about . My jeans and my biggest shoes or hiking boots and the smaller stuff in the pack . When I 'm at a city or beach the big stuff stays in the room and I 'll wear the shorts and flipflops .
As far as I know Ryanair never stated that it is possible to bring on board an extra bag with the airport purchase , this is what is official . Anyway , in my personal experience it really depends on the policy applied by the airport : I 'm a frequent Ryanair passenger and I only found a single Ryanair airport not allowing carrying on board the duty free shop ( Budapest airport ) . In a lot of airports ( for example Alghero , Pisa , Cagliari , Bergamo ) loudspeakers and banners at the entrance of the shops inform the passangers that the airport security allows carrying on board an extra bag . My advice is to look for these banners once you arrive at the airport . I KEEP TRACK HERE OF THE AIRPORTS THAT ALLOW TO CARRY ON BOARD THE DUTY FREE BAG , feel free to edit . Allow : Alghero ( AHO , 06/2013 ) , Bergamo ( BGY , 08/2012 ) , Cagliari ( CAG , 06/2013 ) , Pisa ( PSA , 07/2013 ) , Tenerife South ( TFS , 03/2013 ) , Gran Canaria ( LPA , 07/2013 ) , Alicante ( ALC , 07/2013 ) Do n't allow : Karlsruhe/Baden-Baden ( FKB , 04/2013 ) , Budapest ( BUD , 07/2012 )
Yes you can do this but be aware of the following things : You might have completely different ( harder-to-obtain ) visa requirements , check carefully before ! In case of a delay of your first flight ( A to C ) you loose your second ticket ( C to B ) under most ticket conditions . If you travel with check-in luggage you likely have to re-check your bags . This more often than not involves going through immigration which involves issues mentioned above in 1 . In more detail : If travelling on one ticket ( i.e. . A to B ) chances are you will only need a transit visa if at all ( but this is in no way certain , so check ! <URL> was lucky since he already had a US visa , otherwise he would have needed Schengen short stay ) . On two different tickets , if <URL> or if a <URL> , chances are you need a short-stay or similar visa . If you want to know whether you need a visa , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> or <URL> just to name a few of the usual suspects . If you buy a ticket from A to B ( on a single ticket ) then <URL> , even in the case of delays / <URL> / etc. . If however you buy two separate tickets , your first flight is late so that you miss your second flight , the airline that issued the second ticket can ( <URL> ) : then claim ( correctly ) that you broke the terms of the CoC on their ticket by not arriving at the airport in time , and thus would normally cancel your ticket . Depending on the airline , they may choose to show you charity and accommodate you on a later flight ( eg , next day ) , but they have no responsibility to do so , and if the next days flight is full , you 're pretty much out of luck ! In this case most ( but not all ! ) travel insurance policies would cover you , although some may only cover you to the price you originally paid for the missed flight , even though the last-minute replacement flight could cost significantly more - so read the fine print on the policy ! ( continued ) . Finally let me add that this might be another reason for visa problems if due to a delay you end up stranded at C . If you have to re-check your luggage , many airports do not allow you to retrieve or check-in luggage from the international transit area , so if you need to re-check your bags do n't only count the time for doing so ( possible further delays ) but also having to go through immigration ( possibly twice : in &amp; out , so see 1 . above ) . If your bags are seriously delayed your carrier of the first ticket might even not be able/willing to ship your luggage all the way to C where you want it . Some airlines will have interlining agreements and in that case you can ask at A to have your luggage checked in all the way to B through C , showing them your second booking . I have no idea what is the success rate of this as in some cases they might refuse / be technically unable to do so , but it does not hurt asking . Finally , you should add up the hidden costs ( visa , hotel stays , cost for alternative travel in case your plan fails ) and compare that to the A to B ticket price . On the other hand there 's nothing wrong with getting two different tickets if you know your risk . You might have alternative options in case or you wanted to stay a night or two in C anyway . Happy travels !
Promoting comments to an answer ... Looking at the ever useful <URL> , there are three typical routes . One is via Turkey , Syria and Jordan . My understanding of the current situation in Syria is that this one is out . Next up is a direct ferry from Greece , but that is n't running currently . Finally there are suggestions that you can get a ferry from Cyprus on to Israel , I 'd suggest you try looking into that . If you wanted to get to Jordan avoiding Syria , then you 'd have to go through Iraq , which is n't any better ! I think you 'll have to consign yourself to not overlanding it via Turkey any time soon . Ferry in is your best bet . One other possible option is via Egypt . Friends in Egypt tell me that the situation in the country is much better now , however relations between Egypt and Israel are n't great ( to say the least ... ) . That 'd likely mean taking the <URL> and then onwards by land to the border ( and hope it 's open ) . Snag is , that ferry is reported to have issues at the moment too , as it normally stops in Syria on the way Looks like your only bet is the Cyprus ferry , assuming <URL> is telling the truth about it running at the moment ...
That 's a lot of questions , son . The cheapest way to stay in touch with your family is to install <URL> or an equivalent service on your phone , and then call from some place with wifi . If you both use Skype , it 's absolutely free even for video calls ; if you use Skype to call their mobile or landline phone , you 'll pay a few cents per minute . Just be sure to use wifi , not roaming , or the data costs will be murderous ! Here 's the basic logic : since it 's you who 's roaming ( = in a different country ) , you pay all the extra charges if somebody calls you or you call someone . In other words , if your family calls or texts you , they pay for the call/text to Canada ( because that 's where your number is ) , and Bell will then charge you for forwarding the call/text to the US at some astronomical rate . If you get a US SIM card , you now have a new number in the US . ( And since your old SIM card is no longer in the same phone , it 's now unreachable ; you need to tell everybody your new number . Of course you can always swap it back when you return . ) If your family calls/texts your new US number , they pay the cost of the international call ; if you call out to Canada , you pay . One catch : you need to ensure that your phone is " unlocked " , so it 's allowed to change SIMs . Call up your operator and ask . There 's absolutely no point in getting a new phone , all you need is the SIM . I 'm currently visiting the US and have been reasonably happy with AT&amp;T 's <URL> ( link to random but informative blog post ) , which you can get set up for $ 20 or so , although you 'll probably want to pay $ 25 extra for 1 GB of data . Then a major caveat at the end : the above is how things work in 99 % of the world . The US , Canada and other <URL> countries are kind of messed up , since they share the same country code and they do n't distinguish between mobile and landline numbers , making it generally impossible to figure out where any given phone number is actually located and thus complicating the normal logic of " caller pays only for where they think they are calling " ... so while you 're guaranteed to get reamed if you roam anywhere in the world , in the US/Canada/NANPA it 's possible that people calling you get reamed as well . Yay for telcos !
end question
start question
Is there a way to store stage luggage until needed ?
I have never used their service , or that of a competitor , but <URL> ( Portable On-Demand Storage ) might do what you want . The big questions will be cost , and timeliness . I also do n't know if they have service outside of the U.S. , but there may be similar services elsewhere in the world . The service , as I understand it , essentially delivers a large " pod " ( metal crate ) to your drive way , where you can load whatever you want . It is then stored in one of their storage facilities , and can later be dropped of again -- at whichever address you specify , including one across the country . As the service is intended for long-term storage , and cross-country moves , it may prove to be un-economical as a sort of " on-demand luggage " service , but it might be worth investigating .
I think the answer is the same than for your other question . As WiFi stations are not listed in the <URL> you should be able of carrying one in your hand luggage . The only restriction that you should find is that it might be turned off for the entire flight .
I 'm English and lived in Glasgow for 4 years . Understanding many ( but certainly not all ) people will be tricky ( even us native speakers struggle ) , but they 'll be very willing to try to help you understand , and it wo n't cause offence . You probably wo n't even need to explain : as soon as they see look of blank incomprehension and hear you begin to say " Err , sorry " in a non-Scottish accent they 'll usually laugh and know what 's going on . It 's a common situation . A few things to understand about Glasgow : They 're used to it . It 's a running joke in the UK that the <URL> accent is especially hard to understand . I certainly struggled more than once , and I 'm a native English speaker . Everyone in Glasgow is familiar with this . Heck , plenty of people from Edinburgh struggle to understand Glaswegians ( to the delight of many Glaswegians , who take it as proof that their Edinburgh rivals are less truly Scottish ... ) . <URL> . It 's actually somewhat exaggerated - most Glaswegians are very easy to understand . So much so that <URL> - it 's a very expressive accent , and studies find people respond well to it , it sounds honest and warm . But when an individual Glaswegian is difficult to understand , and many are , they 're very difficult to understand - and you will encounter several such people . It wo n't be everyone you meet , or even the majority , just a very memorable , sizeable minority . They take pride in being helpful to foreign guests . Glaswegians take a lot of pride in being welcoming to outsiders ( especially non-English outsiders ... but surprisingly welcoming to us <URL> too ) , and particularly to Scandinavians ( many pro-independence Glaswegians feel more affinity to social-democratic Scandinavia than they do to the London-dominated , more conservative UK ) . The <URL> is a topical textbook example of Weegie pride in being warmly welcoming to foreigners . Most Glaswegians will be very happy to try to help you out . They 're very aware of the difference between their speech and standard English , and tend to be rather proud of it . The idea that <URL> is not a dialect but a wholly separate language to English is pretty popular in pro-independence Glasgow , and there 's even a term for and books about <URL> . Scots spell differently when writing in Scots as opposed to formal English , there are even <URL> . Glaswegians take a lot of pride in having a good sense of humour and being able to take some stick , and also in being a bit different to everywhere else . Something like this wo n't cause offence . They may have had the same experience themselves . Not only are Glaswegians familiar with others struggling to understand their accents , they 're also familiar with struggling to understand other , even stronger Scottish accents themselves . For example , there 's the potentially-offensive Scots word <URL> ( pronounced like Choo-chter , with the second like Loch ) , which a Glaswegian friend cheerfully translated to me as meaning " Those <URL> from up North who we cannae understand what they 're saying " ; before doing an impression of a Teuchter accent ( north highland Scottish ) which , to me , was actually slightly easier to understand than her normal speech ... Scottish accents are very varied , and it 's not uncommon for Scots to have experienced struggling to understand other Scots . While getting people to try to help you understand will be easy , getting them to succeed in helping you understand them is a different story ... Luckily , if all else fails , Glaswegians tend to be very expressive with their body language . You 're very unlikely to cause offence ( unless you accidentally get your country names mixed up and talk as if Scotland is a part of England , or imply that you think Edinburgh is in any way Scotland 's most important city ... those common tourist mistakes will cause offence ! ) One thing to be aware of is , Glaswegians tend to be much more direct and expressive than Londoners . Do n't panic if a Glaswegian says something which seems blunt or confrontational to a point where a Londoner would only ever say it to a mortal enemy - it 's usually just friendly banter intended in good humour . If they 're actually being angry or aggressive , you 'll know . Update - Mast posted a comment above suggesting practicing with a native to get used to the accent . If that 's hard to do , there are several famous Glaswegian comedians who have medium-strength Glaswegian accents . Look for videos of : Kevin Bridges Billy Connolly Frankie Boyle ( warning - not for the easily offended ) ( fictional character ) Rab C Nesbitt ( also possibly not for the easily offended ) Episodes of the sitcom Still Game
Assuming you are departing from Venezia Santa Lucia , <URL> Opening hours are from 6 am till 11 pm and cost is Charges 6,00 $ the first 5 hours 0,90 $ / hour from 6th to 12th hour 0,40 $ / hour from 13th hour on If possible however , you should try to ask your hotel if they can store your luggage for you until the evening , which will likely cost you nothing or a much smaller fee . <URL> recommends <URL> which is open until 7 pm only . There are also further options listed within easy reach in Piazzale Roma .
So since you have to basically go on a tour ( unless you volunteer ) , it 's fairly easy to get a visa - see <URL> . Book a tour and they 'll sort the visa for you . <URL> . Volunteering is certainly possible , and a quick google reveals many who have done it . I 'll try and indicate different examples , as each might be harder or easier for future readers . <URL> through Health Volunteers Overseas . <URL> from people who have done it - including a page on <URL> . Another <URL> describes volunteers from Japan , Singapore and New Zealand . Finally <URL> advertised . Many other such sites would exist as well , google certainly showed many more . What 's important , however , as the last blog post pointed out is that you should only volunteer to actually contribute something towards their country , not just to avoid a tourist fee . Of course , if you can succeed in doing both , everyone wins !
Three approaches : choose an airline that has in-seat power . get a sheet battery - the one I have for my Windows laptop adds another 7 hours or so - that attaches to the laptop and does n't look external , so you can use it in place get an external battery and take a break for a little while to let it do its charging under your seat or somewhere the crew ca n't see it , then remove it and go back to working My old laptop used to trip the breakers on planes if I tried to both use it and charge it , so I 'd use it a while , close the lid , plug it in and set it aside while I ate or whatever , then pick it up and work again . And yes , I choose my work wisely . If I 'm rendering video then my 9 hours of battery life will disappear in an hour or two . Still I occasionally render video on planes anyway . External battery packs for Macs surely exist . <URL> and <URL> . It says 32 hours for MBA , and 8 for MBP . That should help . And in a pinch , you might even carry two :-)
The day after I used one of the travel agencies to get the visa in Bangkok for 2200 Bath , I met someone who told me about the new Myanmar consulate in Chiang Mai . I went there the next day and you can get the standard 28 day tourist visa for 800 Bath ( 3 days ) or 1600 Bath ( one day ) . None of the five travel agencies I inquired at told me about this , either because they did n't know , or they simply did n't want to tell me , because they would lose my business . I had looked online at the official Myanmar government site and wikitravel.org and found no mention of the consulate . It was opened in July 2015 and is located near the north-west corner of the old city at :
Do not pack the suit ! why spend time ironing/pressing the suit at the hotel/accommodation while you can carry them as they are with you ? Put them in a travel suit bag , something like this : <URL> Once in the plane , ask a cabin crew member to hang it for you , in every plane there is a <URL> and they will be happy to do that for you . This is what I would do as a frequent business traveler . Many airlines do not count this among the cabin luggage allowance , so your allowance will not be affected .
If you were storing a few bags for one day , or one bag for a few days , you might have more options . To leave a few bags for a few days , however , you will need to do some legwork . The first place I would check would be with your hotel in San Francisco . Some hotels are more willing to do this than others , and storage conditions may vary widely -- a locked room in some cases , stacked in a corner behind the desk in others . It is extremely common for guests to ask that bags be held for a few hours on the day of checkin or checkout ; asking for multiple days is worth a shot , especially if you are staying there for several days , and most especially if you are staying there before and after the excursion . Generous tips ( before and after ) to the concierge or bell desk may help . The second place I would check is with the motorcycle rental agency . You 're hardly the first people to not want to lug suitcases around on the back of a bike . I know EagleRider and MotoQuest explicitly do offer luggage storage as a complimentary service . I would also check to see if any private clubs you are a member of have reciprocal relationships with San Francisco-area private clubs , and if they have facilities you could leave the bags at . For example , members of the <URL> can request an invitation from the <URL> . It 's a thought . But there 's little incentive for a company or other organization with no relationship with you to accept . They do n't want to store , or be accused of storing , anything dangerous or illegal , and they do n't want responsibility for the bags or anything in them being stolen . The only public left luggage facility in San Francisco proper , so far as I can tell , is at the <URL> at <URL> ( toward the eastern end of Fisherman 's Wharf ) , which charges $ 5 per bag . The lady with whom I just spoke on the phone , however , says they do not permit overnight storage . You could call around to other hotels and hostels and see by trial and error if anyone will take them on . The Chancellor Hotel comes up in some web searches as an option . The Pacific Tradewinds Hostel <URL> storage to its guests . Now , maybe you do n't care to stay there , but at $ 32/night , booking a bunk that stays empty would still be cheaper than the airport ATA . The <URL> and <URL> say they offer luggage storage facilities , but I could not find any information on the services , prices , or policies . Online comments about the temporary transbay bus terminal are universally negative . Emeryville is not especially easy to get to by public transportation , either ; you would need to take BART to <URL> then the <URL> shuttle bus . Speaking of BART , I have seen some people advise renting a bicycle locker , but this takes a lot of advance planning , and presumably , a local address for your application form , only to leave your bags half-exposed to the elements and at risk of theft . I do n't recommend it . Further down the list , you could rent a car , stick the bags in the trunk , and find someplace safe and cheap to park for the duration of your excursion . I extended a rental car for a day once precisely for this purpose in Hawaii , but have no recommendations for the Bay Area .
Roads that the race actually follows are closed to cars a couple of hours before the racers arrive , sometimes more depending on the area . Cross roads are open until closer to race arrival time . Best bet is to drive nearby and get your bike out and ride the rest of the way to your preferred viewing point . Bikes and pedestrians can move along the closed course until the first riders are just a few kilometers away . Finding a spot near the start can also be challenging , as a lot of the start area is reserved for VIPs , journalists , etc. .
There is no clear price information mentioned on <URL> . The easiest thing to do will be to call or email them . Their website provides this information : Baggage storage is exclusively available at the Airport Travel Agency , located on the Departures/Ticketing Level of the International Terminal , near the entrance to Gates G91-G102 . The Airport Travel Agency is open daily from 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. No reservations are required for baggage storage . All baggage is x-rayed prior to storage . Rates are assessed per each 24 hour period that an article is in storage ( articles in storage for less than 24 hours will be subject to the 24 hour rate ) , and vary according to the size of the object . Please contact the Airport Travel Agency at 650.877.0422 or CF.Airport@gmail.com for additional information . <URL> says that the typical rates vary from $ 15 to $ 35 whereas the pricing on the <URL> is quite ambiguous and seems to not agree with the same . I would assume that your size luggage would cost approximately $ 25 but the best solution is to just ask via email . SFO offers only one staffed location where you can store baggage . Airport Travel Agency , located in the Departures/Ticketing Level of the International Terminal , is near the entrance to Gates G91-G102 . It offers storage for $ 15 to $ 35 per day depending on the size of items you are storing .
Yes , bags are sold specifically for this purpose . Features may include : being waterproof having lots of compartments to hold many small bottles ( or one compartment with various elastics and such to hold small bottles sort of upright ) having at least one compartment to hold tiny little things like bandaids and safety pins having a hook so you can hang it up in a small bathroom Examples : <URL> <URL> <URL> The magic word is " toiletries " , " wash " , " Dopp " or " washing " bag or kit ( depending on where you live and to some extent your gender , though the bags are generally gender neutral . ) Search with that and you should find a ton . Or go into a department store and take a look in the luggage section .
It 's nigh impossible to know this without extensive recent experience with a specific border . Even news reports can be misleading and there is no easy way to keep up with the situation . There is a procedure for a member state to officially notify the EU Commission that it is reintroducing border checks ( cf. title III , chapter II of the Schengen Borders code ) , which is probably the basis for many maps and articles you will find on the net . A list of states that used the procedure is available to the public on <URL> . But whether states did it or not does not really reflect actual practice on the ground . For example , I have heard many direct and indirect reports from people who crossed the border between France and Italy and witnessed border checks there but , to my knowledge , France never notified the EU about it and the situation has been going on for much longer than envisioned by the regulation . On the other hand , France did report its intent to reintroduce border checks for the Paris Climate Conference last December but even after the Paris attack that happened at the same time and the ongoing state of emergency , the checks are far from systematic . And when states do reintroduce border checks , legally or illegally , they typically focus on specific locations , targeting sensitive borders , larger crossings or public transportation networks rather than actually staffing each and every border crossing point ( many of which do n't even have a building anymore ) . I believe many Schengen countries have reduced the size or refocused the tasks of their border police force and simply do not have the capacity to perform full border checks without seriously straining their regular police force .
No , there is no way without hiking from base camp at least . I have had extensive talks with three people who went up there either as a tourist or even as a professional Sherpa . The one and only helicopter landing that is cited on Wikipedia was an extreme stunt and not something that is done in any kind of routine for tourists . The helicopter neither touched the ground with all his weight nor was it able in any way to let people get out or in . It has merely touched the ground long enough with a part of the landing gear to set a record . Helicopter flights in high altitudes are dangerous and at the limit of the equipment . On top of that , the fast changing weather in the area makes it even less secure . Until 2005 , even flying to the base camp was <URL> . And that is at about 5000 meters , not much more than half of the 8 ' 800 meters of the whole mountain . The dangers of weather and the different reaction of people to the height make it an experience where many people fail to reach the summit . The preparations take months , the reservation for a trip can take a year or more and the <URL> . By the way : On any hike you will be able to see dead bodies on the way of the <URL> . If you have a sensible Sherpa , they will try to go around them , but <URL> . The issue is always the landing with the helicopter . It 's hard to find a suitable spot to land and to have a soft landing in the thin air is very difficult . The higher you get up the mountain , the less places are there to land . Since you apparently are not asking this to tell others that you have climbed the mountain , but rather just to be up there to experience it , I can recommend you to take a helicopter tour of the mountain without landing . You <URL> and have a spectacular view of the scenery without risking your life . This one is even with <URL> , the grandson of Tenzing Norgay who climbed with Edmund Hillary . I would expect some interesting stories . Otherwise , you can decide if you still want to hike up there . But even if you would take a helicopter to base camp , the rest of the trip is still <URL> to get up on one of the first attempts , 20 days more if you are unlucky . One thing to consider is that it will not possible for you to do any part of the actual hike without the acclimatization in the middle to get used to the height . So flying in somewhere in the middle from a lower area is not an option simply because of that , no matter if there is an actual flight available . FYI since <URL> , traveling to Tibet is possible again without restrictions . So going through China is also an option now . It 's still just as dangerous of course . <URL> , the Nepalese authorities consider it as a huge no-no for climbers to do parts of the trip in a helicopter . I would assume that similar goes for the Chinese side . So even if you can technically do parts of the trip in a helicopter , it seems that doing so will get your name into a newspaper for allegations similar to fraud .
I ca n't help with the logistics of actually getting the vehicle between Thailand and Australia , however despite what is and is n't possible there , there 's no cheap way to do what you 're asking . Australia has a relatively strict process for approving imported vehicles , which would normally only be worthwhile if the car was in some way special . If the vehicle is left-hand drive ( ie , the steering wheel is on the left ) then there are even stricter rules regarding importing . You can most of the details in the <URL> . If you are only planning to import the vehicle temporarily you can get by with having a <URL> ( CPD ) , but even this will not be cheap -- especially as you 'll have to pay for transportation in both directions . There have been a few other questions here regarding CPD that you 'll be able to find by searching . Unless there are ( very ! ) special circumstances , selling your car in Thailand and buying a new one in Australia will work out much cheaper than trying to transport it .
The main way to simplify this process is to use the services of an agent . There are a few that specialise in this and you would want to vet them a bit before putting your money , passport and credibility in their hands so I am not going to name any . But I heard about a handful that would for example arrange visas for Russia and many central Asian countries as a " package " ( you provide an itinerary and your passport and they arrange invitations , send your passport to the relevant consulates for you , etc. ) As a <URL> , if you do not want to go to Sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East , this area ( central Asia and the former Soviet Union ) is probably the most troublesome . You will need a visa or some formalities in advance for ten or twenty other countries ( India , China , North Korea , Iran , Belarus , Vietnam ... ) but you are lucky enough to be able to visit most of the world with little or no formalities ( Europe is wide open without so much as a concern about overstaying in the Schengen area , the Americas are visa-free for you and many South-East Asian countries merely require a visa-on-arrival which is easy to get without any trip to an embassy beforehand ) . The thing is is that , outside the Schengen area , visas are entirely each country 's prerogative . Nobody can issue a " global " visa , it 's not a mere technical issue but fundamentally at odds with the way international law and passports/visa work . One way or the other , you must obtain an authorisation to enter from each country you want to visit so having someone secure them for you one-by-one is the best you can do . In fact , trips to various consulates are not the main difficulty with getting visas for a round-the-world journey . The main issue if you want to do it all at once and in a short time is that you often can not get visas more than 2-3 months in advance and will often have to wait for them ( at least of few days , possibly weeks ) so that getting all the visas all at once before the journey might be impossible . It might also be difficult to apply from a country where you are not a resident , meaning you ca n't always get what you need on the road and might therefore need to return to Belgium once or twice in the middle of the trip . Beyond visa-free travel , your location and citizenship have a few other advantages . It 's ( much ) more expensive but Belgium offers special passports with more pages and tend to issue them quickly , which would ease the process . And with the European institutions and everything , many countries have a representation in Brussels so at least you do n't have to travel very far to find their nearest consulate ( according to Wikipedia , there are <URL> more than in Paris , Berlin or London ; by comparison Greece has 80 or so and Malta has only 20 ) .
Yes , there is ! And it 's well worth doing ! Almost all the commercial river tours leave from the piers at Landungsbrucken , which is on the S-Bahn just south of the city centre . Also leaving from there are a number of <URL> that are part of the <URL> , which accept normal HVV tickets including <URL> : The quieter option is to take the 72 or 73 boats , which leave from the east end of the Landungsbrucken piers , which take you a short way across the river . If you 're in a hurry , these are the ones to go for If you have more time , head to pier 1 and pick up the 62 ferry . On weekends , just look for the huge scrum , as there 's no proper queues ... Ferries are roughly every 15 minutes , so it 's not the end of the world if you miss the first one . The 62 ferry takes about half an hour to make its way west along the river , giving stunning views ( especially from the open air top deck ) of the city , the city beaches , the port it . It runs to Finkenweder , which is a small area of the city just to the south west . From Finkenweder , you can just stay on the 62 ferry , and ride it back to the city . This round trip takes about an hour . Or , if you have a little longer , get off and change onto the 64 ferry . This short trip takes you back to the north side of the river at Teufelsbruk . From there , you can either catch a bus to town , or enjoy a nice 15-20 minute walk through parks to reach the s-bahn at Klein Flottbek ( the Botanical Garden ) . The <URL> also gives a good idea of the routes and connections available .
Heineken Bar at Incheon Airport The <URL> , one in the East and one in the West side of the duty free area , both next to gate 4F . I do n't know if they have draught beer , but the name looks promising . Below is a screenshot from the linked site : <URL> The Jet Lagged Lizard at Incheon A couple hundred metres outside of the airport , in Incheon , you can also find the <URL> - a full blown pub with draught beer , food and all the rest . This solutions looks perfect , provided you are willing to leave the airport terminal . <URL>
Most countries except for the UK , USA , Ireland , Mexico and Canada impose formal exit checks in the same way they impose entry checks . ( I am excluding passenger information being submitted to governments , by exit check , I mean all departing passengers queue up and an immigration officer looks at every outgoing passport . ) Therefore unless you are exiting one of those above-mentioned countries , there are formal exit controls . Travelling within the Schengen zone of course involves no passport control , because it is designed as one immigration zone , but when you leave the zone there is an exit control . There may be further exceptions ( please reply in the comments ) but actually I can think of none off the top of my head .
No , not if you need anything near completeness The other answers list some sites , but those are very incomplete . For example , the <URL> has <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , all can be booked online through webforms or e-mail . None of the search engines listed in other answers list any of those , and no youth hostel I have ever stayed in is . My only recommendation is to search specifically through the web , through tourist office websites , or through country-specific websites . Norway has the extensive <URL> ( includes many categories of accommodation , including one for youth hostels and similar low-budget backpacker style ) , in Sweden many -- but not all -- youth hostels are a member of the <URL> , and otherwise , it depends per country . Perhaps the search engines are particularly incomplete for Sweden and Norway and more complete for other countries or larger cities -- I have not made a thorough study . You might find something through them , but do not conclude from a lack of results that there are no hostels .
end question
start question
Should I book flights and accommodation before applying for a Russian visa ?
Yes , just apply for it with a few days buffer either side . I 've done this twice . The first time I entered as expected as it was very much a holiday . The second time I was travelling up Finland to the arctic circle , and then crossing there . The buses from Rovaniemi were not every day , so I ended up bussing to Ivalo , and then to Murmansk , getting there a couple of days later than planned . The only confusion at the border was that I was a Kiwi arriving on a Russian bus company from somewhere in Finland . And on a Russian business visa . But once the border guy was over that , there were no problems . Point is , I arrived a couple of days into the period my visa was valid for . And there is no problem with that - it 's just a maximum period of validity , not a fixed arrival/exit date . All websites will tell you - DO NOT book flights before applying for the visa , in case you do n't get it . However if you want to in order to save money , you might still consider doing it - I certainly did the first time . It 's a calculated risk , if you 're going as a tourist , have no criminal issues or problems that may give them problems with giving you a visa , have an invite and have travel insurance , there 's very little theoretical chance of them denying you . However , stranger things have happened . Personally I never book accommodation more than a few days in advance - which has caused me some grief ( I got the very last bed at the hostel I 'm staying at in Seattle this weekend ) , but one thing to be aware of with Russia is that they often ask where you 're staying . Last time I was n't sure , and just put the 5 biggest cities I was likely going through . That worked fine , and the cities are n't listed on your actual visa . If you 're worried and are happy with hostels , you can always just book one with Hostelbookers and if you do n't get your visa , email them and cancel your booking . You only lose your 10 % deposit .
UPD : as you have found yourself , the prices do sometimes go lower , so the answer that I 've posted originally is not quite correct . I 'll still keep the answer , and I think that it is applicable for most of the situations , but apparently there are exceptions . No , the prices on Russian trains never go lower . The prices depend on three parameters : For the so-called " dynamical pricing " , enabled on " best " Russian trains ( and Sapsan of course ) , the prices depend on the number of tickets left , so the less tickets left , the higher the price . The prices also depend on date , that is , for the same number of tickets left the prices for different dates may be different . For most of the trains the price depends on a season , but for Sapsan , IIRC , it depends also on the day of week . For some trains ( I guess not the Sapsan ) the prices depend on the number of days left to train departure . The earlier you buy , the cheaper it is ( in addition to dynamical pricing mentioned above ) . Or well , there is one exception : the prices may go lower if all the tickets for a particular class has been bought ( and thus the lowest price you were seeing was the price for a higher class ) , but then some passenger decided to return their ticket . In this case you might see this cheap ticket appearing back for sale , but usually on such high-demand trains it will appear for a very short time , because somebody else would buy it very quickly , so I definitely would not rely on this .
If I read things correctly , you are : Currently residing in the UAE Have finished your education in the UK and left Want to visit the UK again , for non-student purposes According to this <URL> ( at least my understanding of it ) an ECO will not cancel a existing Tier 4 Student visa that you have already used to enter the UK . You may however be refused entry under <URL> if you try and use your Tier 4 Visa to enter and the IO determines that your change of circumstance invalidates your visa , however this should not happen obviously , as you will be entering as a visitor on a general visit visa . I am confused as to what you mean by ' proving family ties ' , in the visit visa application , it does ask you to list the details of your Mother and Father , however there is no requirement to prove this in your application , unless specifically asked to . What I think you mean is , how are you going to show that family is one of the reasons you will leave the UK at the end of your visit . You can not prove this , as you already said , because your family lives in Uganda and you do not . Do n't worry , this is not something that severely affects your application . If you can prove beyond reasonable doubt via other means ( economic ties as you said , for example , like a job in the UAE ) , then that should not be an issue . Please correct me if I have misunderstood anything in your question .
Ryanair only sells one-ways or returns so the only case is missing your first flight and still wanting to take the return . That is possible without any actions necessary on your part as stated <URL> : You do n't need to notify us if you are unable to travel and if you ca n't use your outbound flight you can still use your return flight . So yes , if you miss the first flight you can still take the return flight and no , there is no sequential use of flight coupons rule .
UPDATE : On the Allegro train , by default , they placed the entry stamp on a separate page - I saw it happen to a Spanish citizen who was checked before me . However , I politely asked the officer , in broken Russian , to stamp the visa instead ( " pozhaluista shtamp na visa , niet drugoj stranitsa " ) , and she was perfectly OK doing so . Same thing when exiting for Kazakhstan . Below is a picture of my visa with stamps <URL>
No , you do n't need a transit visa - as long as you do n't leave the transit lounge . But be sure about your change with airlines/planes , as there are two airports in Istanbul . You may read detailed information on the <URL> . Edit ( not by Mahmut ) to include extract from part of the referenced website : Question : I will be flying to Europe . I know that our aircraft will land in İstanbul . I am not planning to leave the transit lounge . Do I need to get transit visa ? Answer : If you will not leave the transit lounge at the airport you are not required to have transit visa . The above to attempt to clarify that in the above circumstances the nationality of the traveller appears irrelevant ( though so does " I will be flying to Europe " , and interlining of luggage is not covered by the extract ) .
Your friend will need a new visa to enter Libya . All old visas are considered invalid and no longer accepted . Please note , Visa requirements have also changed . Some nationalities do not require visa to enter Libya now ( while they needed before the revolution ) and some do require a visa now ( while they did not require one before the revolution ) . So let your friend ask the local Libyan embassy .
I am a business traveller from Britain , so I have never had to actually apply for a UK Visa , but my experience of similar situations says to me that you should n't refer to this as an interview but a ' meeting ' . During your visit you wo n't be being paid in the UK so you are n't a threat . Normally I arrive in a country as a ' general visitor ' because I am just ' meeting ' not ' working ' . You should also carry a printed version of the invitation to interview , contact details of the person you are visiting , exact details of where you are staying and preferably some means of showing that you are n't going to stay beyond . Part of proof is either showing that you have commitments back home ( e.g. already have a job , property lease or mortgage ) and that you have enough money to survive on ( have a recent bank statement showing you have money ) . Also make sure you have your return tickets and arrangements clear so they know you plan to return .
La Défense is predominantly a business area , although it does attract a fairly large number of tourists due to many of the buildings in the area , as well as the fact that it 's the end of the Metro line . Ease of finding a taxi will depend on the time of day and day of week . In general you should not have any issues , however there 's likely times of the week when you may have some trouble , such as early in the day , especially on a weekend . Thankfully there 's an easy solution . Very close to the Defense station are two hotels - the Sofitel next to the Metro station , and the Renaissance a very short walk away . Both of these should have taxis available most of the day , or will be able to arrange one for you if they do n't . ( Ironically on my first ever trip to France I was headed to the Renaissance and my taxi driver got lost finding it ! I think we drove around the " loop " 3 or 4 times before he finally managed to find the right exit ! )
To the best of my knowledge Cambodia Tourist Visas and eVisas are single entry only . But it is possible to transit in Siem Reap without entering the country , assuming you can have your bags checked through to Laos . Are you flying on the same airline or are you changing airlines ?
You only need to wait at most 90 full days to avoid falling foul of <URL> ( Whether you need to stay 90 days out of the Schengen area or less depends on how your previous stay was divided , if it was one block of 150 days , then you do need to wait exactly 90 days after the day you left the Schengen area . ) The reason cited to deny you entry is not based on the overstay but merely on the fact that it 's not possible for you to reenter without violating these rules . Thus , you would also need to wait 90 days or risk being denied entry for the same motive ( " ˝has already stayed 90 days in the preceding 180 day period " ) even if you left on the 90th day of your previous stay and had n't overstayed at all . After that , you could still be refused entry of course , but it would be for another motive , there is nothing special about these 150 days . On the other hand , waiting even longer could be prudent as border guards in other countries might be more suspicious of your intentions if you repeatedly try to enter the Schengen area for long periods of time .
China 's visa rules are rather simple in this matter , if you are applying for a visa in a country other than your citizenship , then you need to show proof that you are residing / traveling legally in that country . If you can not prove that you are in the USA legally using your Irish passport , then you have no choice but to apply with your US passport . While you could try the excuse that you are leaving on another trip and ca n't leave your US passport behind . But there is a good chance they will levy the USA fee , even though they are stamping the visa in your Irish passport .
The answer is yes you can apply in Cyprus for the US visa but if you 're not a permanent or long term resident of Cyprus you should be prepared to reasonably prove why you could n't go back to Russia to get the visa . The site for information and applications for US Visa processing has changed to <URL> and while Cyprus section does n't contain a specific FAQ the section for <URL> addresses this very question : Q. 1 If I am a citizen of another country , can I apply for a nonimmigrant visa in Russia ? Any person who is legally present in Russia may apply for a visa in Russia . However , applicants are generally advised to apply in their country of nationality or residence . It is generally easiest to demonstrate your strong ties abroad in the country where you permanently reside . So yes you can apply but the residency question is likely come up .
Your best bet is to take the <URL> to either Milano Centrale or Milano Porta Garibaldi , and from there take a high speed train to Firenze . This can be either <URL> from Centrale , or <URL> leaving from Porta Garibaldi . All the links provided allow you to book the tickets in advance . The reason you ca n't book everything via one website is because the train lines are operated by different companies : Malpensa is a Trenord station , whilst Milano Centrale and Porta Garibaldi are both FS ( national railway company ) stations . All in all it 's always good practice to book national trains ( the various Frecce operated by Trenitalia or the various Italo routes ) in advance . The reason being that on these a seat reservation is required for each passenger . More importantly , the last minute fares tend to be very steep . Regional trains on the other hand , be it Trenord , some other local company , or any FS interregional route , sometimes do n't require a seat reservation . Hence tickets for the latter can be easily purchased on the day since you can travel without sitting down . When it comes to interregional trains however it is sometimes not possible to reserve tickets in advance ( the Malpensa Express being a notable exception to this rule ) . Since you are worried about missing train connections , note that advanced tickets for the Malpensa Express can be used up to 4 hours after the booked departure time . Trenitalia and Italo both offer exchangeable refundable ticket fares which are of course more expensive than their non-exchangeable counterpart . To avoid any bad surprises you can book the latest sensible train , say 5 hours after you land , and attempt to exchange the ticket at the station to board an earlier train , should your journey from the airport take less than expected .
I was just reading an <URL> : " The <URL> travel gurus suggest it 's best to buy airplane tickets mid-day on a Tuesday or Wednesday . "
Oddly , the legality depends on the country . In the UK for example , it 's a civil offense against the landowner , but not illegal . And as an added bonus , if you ' live ' there for 10 years , you can claim ownership ! ( This has actually happened ) . More often than not , it 's homeless people that squat , rather than travellers . It 's so common in the UK , that there 's even a website - " <URL> " . <URL> also offers some advice and information on squatting , and finishes with a suggestion on alternatives : Squatting is , however , a last resort when it comes to accommodation . A good compromise is becoming a property guardian instead . This is where you move into a disused property , such as a school or office block , with a number of other property guardians , and look after the building legally on behalf of the owners . All your bills are paid for and you pay a very minimal rent - say # 100 a month . You will need to register with - and be vetted by - a property guardian company first , which will then inform you of accommodation that becomes available . But the benefit is it 's all above board , legal and - most importantly - safe .
I was quite impressed with the Tokyu Stay chain recently . <URL> , but quoting the pertinent bit : As for the rooms themselves , they 're mini-apartments : all but the very smallest come with a kitchenette , full-sized fridge and a washer-dryer . The twin room we stayed in is 30 m2 , spacious for Tokyo , with two beds that can be pushed seamlessly together into a ginormous super-king , and an inner door between the bedroom and the kitchen . The fast and free internet comes in both wifi and wired flavors , with no hoops to jump through : connect and you 're in , as many devices as you like , no passwords etc. . Last but not least , the bathroom comes equipped with a big Japanese ofuro tub for soaking away . And the price is right : singles start from around Y6000/night , while you can score the twin for ~ Y11 ,000 / night ( per room , not person ) . If there 's another place in central Tokyo that gets you all this for less , I 'd like to hear about it ! That said , Japanese hotels are actually pretty cheap these days , it 's not too tough to find a decent business hotel in a decent location for Y5000/night and at that rate even booking two rooms may be feasible . Wikivoyage 's <URL> also has some ideas .
I recently ( last month ) stayed for a few nights at <URL> ( on the pedestrian section of Estado between Gamero and O'Carroll ) , cellphone : <URL> for a few nights for 10000clp/night , just me in a tiny room with shared bathroom ( bring your own toilet paper ) , but it was centrally-located and had good wifi . ( I had a feeling , though , that it might have been a discounted rated and that she usually charges more , though throws in a meal for those paying more ) . I was also quoted 12000clp/night at <URL> ( hostalelcobre@hotmail.com ) at Freire 1050 ( right across from the stadium ) , though I was inquiring for longish-term ( so YMMV ) . The owner of that place said she had another place in town that started at 15000clp/night . Most of the other " hostales " ( not really related to the youth hostel concept ) seemed to be starting at 25000clp/night for a single . If your stay was longer-term ( like a week or more ) , you might be able to get a cheap stay at a " pensión " , but they are usually more geared towards miners who come to Rancagua to work temporarily , or students who would never think to do something like drink or party . I saw several pensiones on Ibieta , as well as other places around the centro and near the Terminal O'Higgins ( though the one I think called Magdalenda near the bus station also started at 25000/night short-term , IIRC ) . Some pensiones were also advertising on <URL> .
tl ; dr It boils down to this : Are you travelling with family/kids ? Do you have a flexible budget ( able to consider more than the cheapest options ) ? Are you easily annoyed or frustrated while travelling ? Do you have onward travel once you have arrived in India ( by road , train , connecting flights , etc. ) ? If the answer to any of the above is YES , I would n't choose a late night flight . ... these flights are prone to unruly passengers , dirty aircraft , and so on . He even mentioned that these flights are called punishment flights by the crew , because no one wants to be on this flight . There is some truth to this . Keep in mind that there are a fair number of Indian labourers in Dubai . This group of people is always looking for the cheapest flights between Dubai and their destination in India . Consider the following factors : Your budget It all depends on what it is that you can afford . If you can afford to fly business class , you will receive good service on almost all airlines . Bear in mind that airlines like Air India will probably have more rowdy passengers in general and you probably do n't want to spend business class fare on such an airline . However , Emirates or Jet Airways will give you good service regardless of the flight times . Your destination It is relatively easy to find a variety of airline options if you are going to a major city like Mumbai , Bangalore or Delhi . However , if you are going to a second tier city like Goa or Pune , your options are limited to Air India and possibly a couple other airlines . Alternate starting points Sharjah airport is the closest international airport to Dubai and the airline that flies out of here is Air Arabia ( budget airline , popular choice among the labour class ) . However , you also have Abu Dhabi which has options like Etihad Airways . This one , like Qatar Airways offers good service - it is something to consider if you have a couple hours to spare and want to visit Abu Dhabi . So my question is : How bad is the situation really and is it worth to avoid these flights and fly other routes , even if these other flights might be a little bit longer or more expensive ? If you are a single traveller , it is easier for you to adapt to noisier and rowdier flights . If you are with family and kids , you probably want to have a more relaxed journey . All in all , I would say that you are better off choosing an airline like Jet Airways or Emirates at a non late night time . If you do n't , it is still just a 3 hour flight . However , if you are not familiar with India and are going there as a tourist , you want to save some energy for what might hit you when you get to India :) If you are not a tourist and are familiar with India , then you are probably used to rowdy people and should have no extra problems . Edit : a matter of perspective After reading the other answer , I feel it important to mention that what some people may think of as unruly and hectic , others may not . It is a matter of perspective . Since the OP mentions that they are originating in Europe , I think it is safe to assume that from a non-Indian tourist 's perspective , passengers on some of these flights tend to come across as relatively abrasive . I can say this out of personal experience - I am a non resident Indian who has lived in Dubai and now in Canada and travels to India once in a while . I find myself losing patience when travelling in India especially after having lived in Canada .
No , you only have to provide the itinerary for your first trip , as well as a justification for why you need a multi-entry visa . E.g. here 's what the <URL> says about multi-entry visas : Multiple-entry visas may be issued with a period of validity between six months and five years , where the following conditions are met : ( a ) The applicant proves the need or justifies the intention to travel frequently and/or regularly , in particular due to his occupational or family status , such as business persons , civil servants engaged in regular official contacts with Member States , and EU institutions , representatives of civil society organisations travelling for the purpose of educational training , seminars and conferences , family members of citizens of the Union , family members of third-country nationals legally residing in Member States and seafarers ; and ( b ) The applicant proves his integrity and reliability , in particular the lawful use of previous uniform visas or visas with limited territorial validity , his economic situation in the country of origin and his genuine intention to leave the territory of the Member States before the expiry of the visa applied for . Otherwise the requirements for applying for a multi-entry visa are exactly the same .
end question
start question
Public transport journey planner for Lille ?
I just checked the <URL> website and I think that 's exactly what you 're looking for .
The end of most major bus lines from Santiago is in Puerto Montt , from there people usually take the <URL> ferry to go further south , for example to Puerto Natales where there is another road . This is not a short ferry , more a cruise ship and takes four days . The other option is to go to Chiloé island which is south-west of Puerto Montt , There are several buses a day ( <URL> ) to Quellon , the southernmost city on Chiloe . Again there is a ferry involved to get to the island , but the ferry ride is much shorter and I think you stay on the bus .
<URL> runs a shuttle between Disney and Universal - but if there are more than three in your group it is almost always less expensive to take a metered taxi . ( Up to seven can ride for the price of one , depending on the vehicle ) . You can ask for an estimate of the fare before accepting the taxi . Looking around online , <URL> it 'll be about $ 30 one-way between the two locations . <URL> for $ 2.00 , but note that it 'll take considerably longer ( 1.25 hours vs 17-20 min ) , and you probably want to maximise your time at the parks :)
Cagnes-sur-Mer has a railway station , with frequent trains from Nice ( generally every half hour ) . Trains take about 15 minutes , and you just buy the ticket at the station on departure . Depending on where you are in Nice <URL> might be useful too . The local bus company has its website here : <URL> ( Press the British flag for English ) . Generally speaking : Getting there by public transport is easy and cheap . Doing it as a day trip perfectly feasible . Haut de Cagnes is about 1km from the train station . If you really do n't want to climb , you can walk to the town center ( square Bourdet , also a stop on bus 94 ) and take <URL> uphill .
Buses seem to be quite reliable in terms of schedule in Colombia . There are plenty of departures and they usually go faster than the predicted time . I took several buses , usually in the evening and always arrived 30min to 1h ahead of schedule . The quoted time could be to account for traffic at other hours . For longer distances , there are overnight buses but guidebooks do not recommend them due to safety concerns . I have no experience to confirm or deny that . Finding schedules for Colombian buses is not so easy though , see m <URL> which covers the norther Altantic coast . For the highlights , see <URL> and <URL> . Some of these routes are overnight or even more .
I 've been to all those places except for Shymkent last summer ( 2014 ) . But I did not follow your suggested route and walked and hitched a lot but also used some public transport options . Even though there are some bigger buses on some of the more popular routes , you will mostly rely on small buses and shared taxis . Even between Osh and Bishkek , the two biggest cities in Kyrgyzstan there are no regular bus services . Most people take a shared taxi or fly . On the other hand , the main bus station in Bishkek has lots of regular buses to Almaty and Shymkent in Kazakhstan and many other places . Arslanbob is a small place in the hills , you wont find a bus from Osh and even finding a shared taxi will be difficult . You can take a private taxi . You can also take a shared taxi from Osh to Jalal-Abad and then another one or a mini-bus to Arslanbob . In Arslanbob do n't expect to find a taxi to Bishkek or Song Kul , take a mini bus back to Jalal-Abad . I 'm not sure how easy it is to reach Song Kul from the south , most people come from Bishkek . To get to the lake itself , there is no public transport , your have to arrange a tourist bus or taxi in Kochkor . Many people get on horse . In general you find out where the buses/taxis are leaving from and go there in the morning . For shared taxis you always have to hackle about the price , this works even if you do n't speak Russian . You never book anything in advance . The car or SUV leaves when its full , unless you pay for all seats ( which can be more than you think ) . Tashkent has some overland buses , but even a popular route like the one to Samarkand is mostly done by shared taxi . I do n't know about the route from Tashkent to Osh , as I traveled through Tajikistan . So traveling in that region is rather adventurous , knowing some Russian helps a lot but I managed without . Unless you want to go to a really remote area , there are ways to get there , that 's how the locals travel . The main roads in Kyrgyzstan are actually in a pretty good condition , but because it is a very mountainous country , travel takes time . I ca n't give any specific costs and time estimates , but it 's all reasonable . Remember , this is how the locals travel and they are much poorer than you and me .
At least in Germany , I do n't think security is an issue . Although it actually is uncommon to find waste bins in means of transport for shorter distances , you will find waste bins in most , if not all , regional and long distance trains or inter-city buses . I would rather assume that it is simply so tedious and/or time consuming to empty the waste bins , that none are installed . Intra-city means of transport are often quite crowded and it would be practically impossible for someone to walk through e.g. a packed subway wagon during normal operation to empty the bins . If the driver was supposed to empty the bins at the end of a line , this would take some time and cause both more personnel as well as more vehicles to be required .
The best option is to buy a " Trampoline " ticket on Lille - Kortrijk . This ticket costs 8 Euro and is valid the whole day on all trains ( both ways ) on the Lille - Kortrijk route . <URL> You can buy this at the ticket office , or from the ticket vending machines . Trying to do it all using " local " transport will make the trip a lot longer , and will unlikely be cheaper than the 8 euro Trampoline ticket . On weekends SNCF also offers Trampoline tickets to other destinations in Belgium . They 're a bit more expensive , but still good deals .
Here 's an excerpt from the current <URL> ( last revision 01.01.2011 ) on the official website of the Urban Mobility Center in Sofia . You would usually find the terms also on the back of the driver 's cabin ( in Bulgarian ) , on an A2 poster filled with a wall of text . Art. 9 ( 1 ) A passenger who holds a valid transport document has the right to free transit of hand luggage of dimensions of up to 60x40x40 cm . The measurement is taken using a measuring tool . The charge for each piece of luggage of dimensions exceeding those specified above is : one single trip ticket ( bought in advance from the driver or from on-board ticket vending machine in trams and trolleybuses ) So , in effect , you should n't be having problems unless you have bags with larger dimensions ( in either direction ) , or more than one of them . I lived in Sofia for more than three years , and bought tickets for my baggage maybe less than 50 % of the times when I was supposed to . You will rarely get into trouble for this if you are not obstructing a sitting place or if the vehicle is not full .
I do recall Paris metro tickets being available on the Eurostar and at the information desk in London , but that was a few years ago and may well no longer be true . The price is rather more expensive than if you get them in Paris . There generally is n't that much of a queue in Paris Nord , especially outside peak hour . This is one of Paris 's busiest stations and one Eurostar is n't that much of a load . Most travelers head for the most visible ticket selling machines , but there are many machines in different corners of the station . Head to the far end of the platform ( where the suburban services leave ; suburban ticket selling machines , such as the one pictured on <URL> , sell metro tickets as well ) . Or head downstairs into the metro/RER area , and spread out a little ; that 's often enough not to have to queue much if at all .
The City of Munich operates a number of indoor ( and outdoor ) swimming pools in and around Munich . These pools are invariably fitted out with changing rooms and showers . There is no need to go swimming if you only want to use the shower , but you will still have to pay the entrance fee . You can peruse a list at <URL> . As for ' reasonable fee ' , swimming pools usually charge about EUR 5 to EUR 10 , depending upon location and facilities available ( e.g. , sauna ) .
You can find complete information on the LIRR and subway at <URL> . Generally , the LIRR is faster , more comfortable , and more expensive . The LIRR takes 20 minutes from Jamaica to Penn Station . It is a commuter train with regular coach cars ; there is a seat for every passenger and overhead racks for small bags . The regular adult fare is $ 9.50 during peak times ( M-F from about 6-10 AM in this direction ) , $ 7.00 at other times on weekdays ; It 's $ 4.00 on Saturday and Sunday . The trains run at fixed times and you can find a timetable <URL> . The E train takes about 40-45 minutes to Penn Station . ( Note that Airtrain access is via the Sutphin Blvd stop , not Jamaica Center . ) Cars have limited seating and no luggage racks ; there is a fair chance that you will have to stand with your luggage for the whole trip . The regular adult fare is $ 2.50 at any time of day . The trains run frequently but do n't have a fixed schedule . You will need to buy 2-3 separate tickets for the different legs of this journey : To ride Airtrain from JFK to the LIRR or E train , the fare is $ 5 , paid with a <URL> . You can get a Metrocard at a vending machine ; there should be some on the Airtrain platforms or inside the airport . Cash and credit cards are accepted . There is a $ 1.00 surcharge for the Metrocard itself , or if you already have one , you can just add money to it . More information about Airtrain can be found <URL> and <URL> . If you take the subway , the fare is also paid with a Metrocard . If you take the LIRR , you should buy a ticket from a vending machine on the LIRR platform before boarding , which will accept cash or credit cards . If you do n't , you can also buy a ticket from the conductor on the train , but there is a surcharge of about $ 6 and only cash is accepted . When you get to Penn Station , you 'll need to buy another ticket for <URL> , preferably from a vending machine ( cash or credit ) . ( There is also a staffed ticket window , and you can also buy from the conductor on the train , but again there is a surcharge . ) The regular adult fare to Newark Airport is $ 12.50 . You use the same ticket to ride the EWR Airtrain monorail from the Newark Airport station to the airport terminal itself , so do not lose it . Note that the subway , LIRR and NJ Transit platforms are all in different parts of Penn Station , so allow yourself some extra time to navigate your connection there . You might be able to squeeze in an hour or so to look around NYC . I would suggest that when you get to Penn Station , you check the schedule of departing trains ( you want either the Northeast Corridor or North Jersey Coast lines ) , choose a train that will get you to EWR with as much time as you want ( I 'd allow 30-40 minutes from Penn Station to EWR 's terminal ) , and then see how much time you have in between .
Short answer : Yes , you will get in trouble . And I personally do n't recommend public drinking in any Arabic/Islamic country . It is even illegal in many other countries . Long answer is that <URL> . By the way , Ramadan is a single month per lunar year . It was in <URL> 1 , it will be in <URL> . and yes , there are special rules for Ramadan . Also note that Dubai is a state ( county ) in a country ( United Arab Emirates ) . Rules outside Dubai are MUCH different . For example , <URL> .
Provided you would like to go to the Hardrock Cafe in Amsterdam : take the train from Schiphol Airport to Amsterdam Central station ( 15 minutes or so ; you can plan details on <URL> ) . From Amsterdam Central Station take a tram number 1 , 2 or 5 and get out on <URL> ( again , some 15 minutes ) . <URL> ( 5 minutes or less )
The responsible organisation for Hanover is the GVH Hannover , their site in English can be found <URL> . The overview of the <URL> . The overview of all <URL> . If it is too much info , <URL> it is in parts . The <URL> should not be forgotten . For convienience you can buy a city planner normally in every store near the train station which looks like <URL> .
I just checked the <URL> website and I think that 's exactly what you 're looking for .
As Andra said , RER B ( 5stations ) + Metro ( 3Stations ) will be way faster than Ligne 4 all the way down . The thing is the interconnection Line 4 to the train can take you up to 10 minutes , moreover if you have lugages with you . But taking the line 6 from Denfert-Rochereau to Montpartnasse will save you this time , trains are at the first exit . Summary Gare Du Nord - > RER B - > Denfert Rochereau - > Line 6 - > Montparnasse Bienvenue Enjoy your trip and welcome in France :)
I recommend checking out the below links . Hopefully these will tell you what you need to know . Link 1 : <URL> You will need to translate the page , if you are in Google Chrome , you will be automatically prompted to do so . If not , go to google translate website and paste in the url of link 1 . If you are looking for a particular date when there may be strikes , your best bet would be to go to the below address . <URL> Here , you are able to search based on details you enter including date , location , sector etc. . All fields are optional . Again , translate the page first . The sector you are likely interest in is " trasporto ferroviario " for trains and " Trasporto Pubblico Locale " for local public transport . In the list of strikes , clicking the symbol on the right will give you more details on the strike , especially the intended duration . If you do not know any of the date , location or sector , link 1 will show you strikes in columns - the date , the location , the sector , details and location . Link 2 : <URL> In short , Itallians plan their strikes in advance . Details of when strikes are scheduled can be found on link 1 . If there is a specific service you are wanting to check , please comment it below . In response to your bonus question , " If your train is providing local transport during essential services for the peak times ( from 06:00 to 09:00 and from 18:00 to 21:00 Mon-Sat ) these will be are guaranteed . Some long-distance trains are also guaranteed on all days including holidays . " " Essential services mean that you will be transported to your destination somehow asap , just not nessecarily on the same train as originally booked . "
Only the March 29th and the April 1st are bank holidays in Spain . Between them there is a weekend that may be affected . Also the March 28th is bank holiday in some regions . There are not less transports in buses and trains , really there are more than a normal day , but there is more people trying to take it . In my experience , you should book your long distance transport one week before or you will have problems these days ( and maybe the 3-4 days previous and the 3-4 days next ) . Anyway , Andalucia will be the most affected region . About the Morocco ferries , the same applies . You can check the timetables and <URL> .
Possible , yes . Feasible , only barely . Yarra Valley is fundamentally car country and not having your own wheels handicaps you pretty badly ; you can use the buses to get to the towns , but the whole point of visiting Yarra ( for most visitors , anyway ) is to tour the wineries , most of which are nowhere near a bus stop . There is , however , one good way to both use public transport and get your own wheels : rent a bike ! The fabulous <URL> starts from train terminus Lilydale , where you can rent a bike , and continues for 39 kilometers across the valley to Warburton , passing lots of wineries along the way , some directly off the trail , most a short detour away . Since it 's a former train line , it 's completely separated from road traffic , and it 's nice , easy ride since the hills were leveled out for the trains . And there are many B&amp;B s etc if you want to stay overnight .
end question
start question
How to independently visit Saudi Arabia ?
Yes , visiting Saudi Arabia is probably <URL> , but it 's not impossible by any means . First up , if you 're a citizen of a Gulf Cooperation Council country , the answer is easy : you do n't need a visa to travel to Saudi Arabia . If you 're not , you have four ( well , three ) choices . Actual tourism visas have been suspended for time being , even for group travel . They 'll probably change their mind again at some point again , so might as well keep an eye out . Business visas are available if you can find a company in the Kingdom to sponsor you for one and pay the rather stiff application fees . Once you 're in , you 're in and the Kingdom is your oyster , except for the Muslim-only zones of Mecca and Madinah . Contrary to popular belief , business visitors do not need an exit visa , that only applies for long-term work visas . And if your wastah ( connections ) are strong enough , anything is possible : I 've met single women and Jews in the Kingdom on these visas . Transit visas are available if you have a legitimate reason to pass through the Kingdom on your way to somewhere else . Booking a Saudia flight with a layover of over 18 hours is one option , driving a car through Saudi from eg . Bahrain or the UAE to Jordan is another . Plenty of stories on the net about this , <URL> documented in extreme detail . Last and least , there 's one foolproof way to visit the Kingdom : book a Saudia flight with a layover of under 18 hours , in which case you do n't need a visa . Only problem is , you 'll also be stuck airside at either Jeddah , Riyadh or Dammam airport , which I can tell you from personal experience are all excruciatingly boring . ( Survival tip : Mooch free wifi from the unsecured network at the al-Fursan lounge . ) If you 're Muslim and male , you have two extra choices : A Hajj visa , available for visiting Mecca and Medinah only during the month of Hajj . Visas are allocated by a lottery system based on the population of Muslims in each country and are generally quite hard to get . <URL> has some more details . An Umrah visa for visiting Mecca and Medinah outside the pilgrimage month . Saudi Arabia has <URL> an " Umrah-plus " visa that would also allow travel outside the holy sites , details on this are still scarce at the moment . Neither option is available to women , who must be accompanied by a mahram ( male guardian ) or , if over 45 , travel in a group . And a personal note : I spent around half a year in Saudi Arabia on business , and from a visitor 's point of view , it 's not as bad as reading some of the clueless drivel on the net makes it sound . If <URL> , you 'll be fine . Now , for some of its inhabitants Saudi is considerably worse than you 'd think ( for example , I was astonished by the number of destitute beggars on Riyadh 's streets ) , but that 's another story .
First , check whether you need a visa at all . You have n't indicated your nationality , so presumably you have found that you need a visa . According to <URL> , an uncle is not one of the types of family members that would make you eligible for a family visa ( it is generally only immediate family and direct ancestors or descendants ) . Therefore , you probably need to apply for a general visitor visa .
You 're asking about Capilano Suspension Bridge , which is handy to know if you get lost and are struggling to find it . In terms of the luggage , that will depend on you , as will food time . From the airport , you 'd get the Canada line ( the only option ) sky train in to Waterfront ( the end of the line ) . As you leave the station , you 'll see the sea-bus terminal . Hop onto a seabus ( boat ) across to the other side ( they only go to one place ) . At the other side , walk out quickly and into the bus area , and look for the bus to Grouse Mountain . It also stops at Capilano Suspension Bridge . Coming back , you can repeat this in reverse , looking for a bus to Lonsdale Quay , then the seabus over to Waterfront , noting on your right that you 'll see the big Stanley Park . Decide now if you want to walk there . If so , that 's easy . If not , get out at Waterfront and walk up Granville until you hit W Georgia . Busses heading to the right will be going to Stanley Park . Depending on the bus , some will go through the park and over the bridge . A nicer option is to get off at Stanley Park and walk right around the entire park , which will give you a great view of the city , the Lions Gate bridge and the park . ( Note , the bridge is on the far side of the park to the city ) . It 's about a 12km walk to do the full circuit though , so be prepared if you 're considering this . Bonus tip : If you have Google Maps and a smartphone , as you exit the Waterfront station you 'll see a Starbucks , as well as at Lonsdale Quay . There 's also one at W Georgia and Granville ( well , two ) , and one near Stanley Park . They have free wifi , which is handy for checking bus times on google maps , and your flight updates . There 's also free wifi at the airport .
<URL> All non-exempt citizens must obtain a visa prior to travelling to South Korea . In your case <URL> : <URL> <URL>
You will need to show visa documentation to board the flight to Canada . Assuming the rest of your family is traveling on your Pakistani passports and if your Iqama status is noted in those passports , the airline may wish to see his Pakistani passport as well at check-in to make sure he is documented to leave . But they should accept his US passport as proof of permission to enter Canada . The question would be if Saudi Arabia requires proof of travel upon your return . This happened to us in Africa , as my daughter used her second passport to avoid visa issues , but then was hassled since her exit visa from the previously visited country was not in the passport she presented to enter the next country .
Sevilla should be very nice , and you can organize a trip to Cordoba and/or Granada if you wish . Note that if you want to see Alhambra in Granada you should really book tickets over Internet more than a month before travel .
Yup , with 12 hours it 's very feasible and I would definitely go for it . In order : Yes , there is a " <URL> " outside arrivals , rates $ 2-6 / day depending on bag size . However , why not just check in your bags for your next flight immediately , and only then set off to explore ? The easy public transport option is <URL> , $ 9 return including unlimited public transport in Montreal for the day , travel time 45 minutes plus depending on traffic . If you 're really pinching pennies you can take bus 204 to the nearest Metro station and connect ( $ 3/one-way ) , but this is more hassle than it 's worth . Customs/Immigration time varies wildly , but if it takes over an hour you 're having a really bad day . Flights from Mexico may get some extra attention though . If you already have checked in before you left the airport , an hour should suffice . Otherwise you might want to allow two hours . ( Official recommendation is three hours , but this is a bit silly . )
To the best of the information available it should . The <URL> does accept New York Pass as a ticket option as it is listed on their site . And if you click on <URL> it will give you an option to reserve seating on either the Battery Park Ferry or on the Liberty Park Ferry . You can also see the same mentioned in their <URL> which allows you to enter from one side and leave to the other . Though I would question the wisdom of buying a New York Pass and going to Liberty Park in NJ to go to the Statue of Liberty or Ellis Island .
As a Polish citizen you do n't need a <URL> in Canada if you have a biometric passport , however , you do need one to enter the United States you do need to have a visa as you 're NOT eligible to enter under <URL> . Which means the following : You can enter Canada as many times as you want as long as you do n't exceed maximum allowed stay , which is 6 months or duration determined by the immigration officer . In order to enter US multiple times you will need a multi-entry visa because unless you have one you will only be allowed in the US once and if you leave you will need another visa . In order to obtain the visa you will need to apply for it at a US embassy where you live or in Poland . There is a <URL> available from the US embassy .
There are actually a number of different questions there , and while I ca n't tackle all of them I can take a stab at a few ... In terms of getting into London , it depends which bit you want to go to . For South West London , which does contain a few of the Olympic venues , as well as a number of parks , your best bet is a local bus . The roads between Heathrow and London are pretty busy if you 're not allowed to use the Olympic lanes , but for getting to the parks / gardens / etc in SW London that should n't be an issue . If you want to get into the centre of London , you can either head into Paddington by train ( Heathrow Express is quick but expensive , Heathrow Connect is cheaper but slower ) , or take the Piccadilly Line ( Underground/Tube ) to a variety of places . The Piccadilly line is valid with a travel card , while the train needs a supplement ( Heathrow owns the spur of railway line so has it 's own fares ) . The tube takes a little longer , but is more frequent , and may well be better for you . Get a one day travel card ( either paper , or on an Oyster card , pros and cons for a single day ever visitor but that 's a different question ! ) , then hop onto the tube and visit wherever you want . Heathrow being busy wise - the busy bit is likely to be immigration , but the day before the opening ceremony I think that everyone who could work will be , so there hopefully wo n't be too long queues . If you stay airside in transit , you wo n't have to clear immigration , just a security check . However , with 10 hours I do n't think that 's an issue . Coming back , you say you 're on BA , so at Terminal 5 ( T5 ) you need to clear Conformance no later than 35 minutes minutes before your flight . Conformance is the passport/boarding card check before security , which may have a small queue ( depends ) . Most people will be coming into Heathrow that day , not going out , so I would n't expect this to be a big issue , but make sure you 're back from London in plenty of time ! Time the tube going in , then add 50 % more just to be sure , and aim to be back at T5 no less than an hour before and you ought to be fine . With a 10 hours layover , I do n't see why you could n't have a good 6 hours in the centre of London , or 7 in SW London . In terms of what you 'll be able to see , be that at the main stadium , the tail end of the Olympic Torch Relay , or one of the many other venues around London , I 'll leave someone else to answer !
There are a few ways to visit Antarctica . Remember that nothing is ever guaranteed and it 's quite possible with weather that you might not make it there . Cruises : Larger cruises often will get you close but not to the land . You 'll have the comforts of cruising . These big ships may be regulated soon . Smaller ships will often let you get right onto land . Costs start at least $ 5k ( for the ultra cheap ) . Tailored Expeditions : Many companies run specialty expeditions which let you visit Antarctica exactly how you want . Prices are extremely high for this . Airborne : You get to fly over Antarctica . This is the more ecological way to see it but does n't have the same experience as actually walking on it . This is also the cheapest option .
If your inbound flight lands on time , let 's make a rough calculation : 20 minutes to exit the plane / airport ( could be more during peak hours ) 30 minutes to get to Munich downtown ( again could be more during peak hours ) 30 minutes to get back to the airport 1h00 at the airport for the security checks So this leaves you approximately 3h00 in Munich . But you need to take into consideration few points : I took an optimal timing ( ie landing on time , no commuting issue and minimum time at the airport ) . If you plan to exit the airport , I would suggest you to take on your luggage with you because if for any reason you are n't able to take the second flight , then the company will have to take your luggage out of the plane ( which is a pain for them ) and then you 'll also miss your luggage if you have to stay overnight in Munich . So you are n't forced to take your luggage with you but I would recommend you to do so ...
How long I need at the peace dome ? It 's just the ruin of a relatively small building to look at from the outside . The whole park , including the <URL> memorial , takes an hour , tops . There 's a museum that probably takes more time , but probably not a good place to take toddlers to . Is Miyajima a whole day trip With toddlers , it 's at least a half day trip . and is it worth seeing in early November ? Very much so ! In fact , that would be one of the best times to visit , as the trees in <URL> should be in full fall splendor . And the kids will love the <URL> . What other things are interesting in Hiroshima There 's a <URL> ( a reconstruction , of course ) with a museum inside and a viewing platform on top . How long public transportation takes From the city center to Miyajima it 's about 45 minutes ( including the ferry ride ) , otherwise everything is in walking distance .
When in doubt , follow the instructions given by the foreign consulate . You ca n't really go wrong ; worst case , they 'll tell you what to do and it should n't be a radical difference from the posted information . They seem to process things very quickly , and the process is very similar to the process for getting a US visa from Canada ( which I 've done ) . So I will answer as if you have not read the page you linked :P Yes , <URL> . <URL> ( possibly now outdated ) has the details for the " L " tourist visa . Previously the submission requirements included : Your US passport and a copy of its information page A photo of yourself , subject to the usual requirements of size etc. . The completed visa application form $ 130
The situation is very complicated . Georgia says that Abkhazia and South Ossetia are Georgian territories , and you can go there from Georgia by this border crossing : to South Ossetia from <URL> - my friends from Germany made a trip this year . If you get into these territories not by these points , you would get problems ( fee from $ 1200 or jail up to 5 years ! ) during next visit to Georgia , according to <URL> ( sorry , only in russian ) , because you 'll get stamps from Abkhazia and South Ossetia . You can only try to get new passport before visiting the Georgia . From Russia you can visit these territories by this border crossing : to South Ossetia via <URL> There is not much problem to get a visa from <URL>
It very much depends where you want to be for the drop . <URL> hosts a party which is technically in Times Square , just high up , and ages 18 + may attend , or 16 + with an adult . The <URL> lets a family of any ages , although drinks will differ depending on age . Also you 'd need to be with your family , presumably . <URL> also points out that the general access will see elderly and children as well as the usual revellers , but to remember that it 's bitterly cold at that time of year . You also need to queue almost the entire day to get in . Given the thousands of people , the surging crowd , drunkenness , night , the need to queue all day and the need to get back home afterwards , it 'd be highly unadvisable for a child/teenager to do it on their own , however , with a family , it 's certainly possible , and there are family friendly areas .
There are no such temples in Saudi Arabia - source : 26 + years of living there . There are way more Christians in Saudi Arabia than Buddhists - but there are no churches in Saudi Arabia either . It is enshrined in the law - which states that all people are free to practice their religion in private only . Public houses of worship for other religions are not allowed . The Committee for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice - known by their Arabic : مطوعين , enforces this prohibition .
Yes . I recently stayed at Calangute beach and a taxi driver took me to Old Goa and Panjim for 1400 rupees . This price is from a government table and is used by all the taxi drivers . If Panjim was not involved the ride would have cost around 1000 rupees . If you negotiate you can get it cheaper than the table price . I do n't remember exactly how long the journey took , but it was certainly not more than 90 minutes .
Unfortunately , ca n't provide any english-language links . Try to contact <URL> , they have amazing pack of offers , such as tour to the Lake Khövsgöl on horse or even hunting ! You 'll stay in lovely houses like this , they have sattelite TV there and traditional Mongolian furniture :
If you are relying on your father 's sponsorship to get an entry clearance for your PLAB , you should get the most recent 3 - 6 months of his bank statements . These should be accompanied by a letter prepared by your father that explains each and every movement through the account and establishes the provenance of his funds . Provenance of funds is a very popular refusal reason at the moment . Your evidence ( including your father 's explanation ) should be translated . If you want to play it strictly by the book , the bank statements should be originals provided by the bank or taken to the bank and be authenticated as genuine by the cognizant bank officer . For your other question , they already know that PLAB applicants are just starting out in life and may not have impressive employment credentials . You can compensate for this by demonstrating that you have great offers on the table or something else that shows promise .
end question
start question
Can I import absinthe into Australia ?
As of July 13 , 2013 , permits are no longer required . <URL> for this : Can I import Absinthe or oil of wormwood into Australia ? The controls on the importation of ' Oil of wormwood ' and products containing ' oil of wormwood ' , have been repealed from the Customs ( Prohibited Imports ) Regulations 1956 . Permission is no longer required in order to import these products . Here 's <URL> .
No , it 's not the same . Whether that 's the case for a given journey will depend on a few details but , unlike the US , there is no blanket requirement to pick up your luggage and walk it through customs when entering Germany or the EU . Usually , in Europe , your luggage will be routed to your final destination and you will clear customs there . You have n't provided much detail but I expect it wo n't be necessary to collect your luggage in this case . However , immigration formalities ( passport check by the police , Schengen entry stamp , etc. ) will have to be completed in Munich . There is some info on transit time in Munich in <URL>
A list of all the customs and import fees is available on the <URL> along with explanations , forms etc. . And <URL> is their guide for customs for tourists , including student visas ( In Hebrew ) . The guide specifies exactly what is exempt from fees , food is exempt for up to a total of 3 kg , as long as each kind of food does n't exceed 1 kg . The list of fees is available <URL> ( In Hebrew ) . Specifically for your question , the fees on " mixed food up to 15 kg " ( מזון מעורב עד 15 ק " ג ) are : 17 % for goods worth 75 $ -500 $ 17 % + 2.93 ILS for each kg for goods worth 500 $ -1000 $ " according to the imported item " for goods worth more than 1000 $ . * - 17 % is the VAT is Israel .
In another document , <URL> , it says , emphasis mine : In de artikelen Douanebepalingen Nederland en Douanebepalingen Nederland , bijzondere goederen staat precies beschreven wat u Nederland mee in mag nemen zonder aangifte te hoeven doen . Or in English , The articles " Customs regulations Netherlands " and " Customs regulations Netherlands , special goods " describe exactly what you are allowed to take with you into the Netherlands without having to declare . The second of those documents has another description of those rules about fruit . So a few fruits for personal use are allowed , and you do n't have to declare them . They 're treated exactly like everything else that you 're allowed to just bring with you .
I worked in a variety of hotels and hostels when I was a young backpacker and student . The simple answer is that it comes down to availability of rooms ( or beds if you 're staying in a dormitory ) . Most hotels will post a check-in time of around noon to give them time to get at least some some rooms ready for the earlier arrivals , but even that should never be considered as a guarantee of getting into a room . A typical hotel has just enough housekeeping staff to turn over all rooms in a day . Typically the rooms which are checking out ( a full turnaround ) are done first , followed by rooms which are staying ( more or less just a tidy up ) . So if everyone turned up to check in at exactly 12 noon , then most of you would be waiting . There is nothing " wrong " with arriving early , that is before the stated check in time , it 's just that the chance of a room of the type you booked being ready diminishes the earlier in the day you arrive . The worst that will happen is that they will usually offer to store your luggage for you while go you about your business . Reception will usually give you some indication of when your room will be ready . If you really need your room ( e.g. to shower and change ) , just explain your need and they may be willing to swap you to a room which will be ready sooner , or possibly even offer you the use of a room which is vacant but not yet made up specifically for the purpose of using the bathroom . It never hurts to ask politely and see what they can do for you .
I 'm not sure how valid a paper UK license is in Australia . I believe it would be up to interpretation . If you rent a car , you might have to convince them that your paper license is indeed an authorised version of your real driver 's license . It might be a good idea to call up the rental car company and ask beforehand . Road rules and regulations are governed on the state level . Each state has its own rules regarding the use of foreign drivers licenses . Some states require an International License as well . The <URL> site summarises this well .
From the US Consulate : Tourists to Mexico wishing to travel beyond the border zone with their car must obtain a temporary import permit or risk having their car confiscated by Mexican customs officials . To acquire a permit , one must submit evidence of citizenship , title for the car , a car registration certificate and a driver 's license to a Banjercito branch located at a Mexican Customs office at the port of entry , and pay a processing fee . Mexican law also requires the posting of a bond at a Banjercito office to guarantee the departure of the car from Mexico within a time period determined at the time of the application . For this purpose , American Express , Visa or MasterCard credit card holders will be asked to provide credit card information ; others will need to make a cash deposit of between $ 200 and $ 400 , depending on the age of the car . Please do not forget to ask for your receipt from Banjército . In order to recover this bond or avoid credit card charges , travelers must return to any Mexican Customs office immediately prior to departing Mexico . Disregard any advice , official or unofficial , that vehicle permits can be obtained at checkpoints in the interior of Mexico . Avoid individuals outside vehicle permit offices offering to obtain the permits without waiting in line . If the proper permit can not be obtained at the Banjercito branch at the port of entry , do not proceed to the interior where travelers may be incarcerated , fined and/or have their vehicle seized at immigration/customs checkpoints . So it sounds really like as long as you have the ownership papers and registration , it does n't matter how many cars in your convoy :D
I remember transiting at Zurich Airport a couple of years ago ( both flights on one Swiss ticket ) and arriving airside , so I guess that means yes for you . <URL> It 's not super-clear but I read Arriving Schengen and non-Schengen passengers are handled in separate areas of the Airside Center and reach the Airport Center by different routes , with non-Schengen passengers first passing through immigration controls . as confirming the above . Finally <URL> is in agreement with that .
She may have to leave Australia , depending on the type of visa she 's on , but there 's no reason she has to return to the US immediately . As long as she has a valid passport with > 6 months free on it , and valid visas and flights for the countries she wishes to visit ( and sometimes evidence of an eventual ticket back to the US ) , she can travel indefinitely .
When I crossed the border Canada - > US ( on a European passport ) earlier this year by car they did not ask for any return tickets . Just what I do for a living , how long I plan to stay in the US , how I plan get out and how much money I had on me and available in my bank account . Been there before for 2 weeks and in transit a couple of times ; so maybe they took my previous records into account ... The first time however was a completely different story ; had to attend a conference , but did not book a hotel before and the guy in customs would n't let me pass until I had an hotel address for my arrival card . Was stuck there for ~ 1h , in the end I just wrote down a random hotel address from the yellow pages . So my advice would be to have some sort of reservation for a hotel/hostel where you stay for at least one night , and the greyhound tickets just in case , because you MUST write some address down on your arrival card , otherwise thou shall not pass ...
Yes , a visa is required for EU citizens . Fortunately , getting one is free and ( usually ) pretty quick . The easiest way is to <URL> . See " Eligible passport holders " on that page to check if you are eligible for eVisitor . The eVisitor allows visitors to travel to Australia for short term business or tourism purposes for up to three months . eVisitor applications are free and are available to passport holders from the European Union and a number of other European countries . More information on Australian visas can be found at <URL>
Here how it goes : After you pass the passport control desk , you will pass the customs desk . The guys at the customs desk will scan the luggage , if they found books or CDs they might ask you to show them . If they do not like them from the cover , they will take the books and/or CDs and give you a slip . The books will be sent to a department where they will check the books/CDs and you can visit them few days later to collect them if allowed , or to be informed that they are confiscated if they were n't allowed . No more or less , no charges or any other things will be taken against you . Sometimes you will have to pay a fine , usually the fine is 500 SAR ( $ 134 USD ) per prohibited item , but I guess this only applies to CDs/DVDs and rarely happens . If you are not Saudi most likely they will pass on the fine because you do not know the local rules . Regarding anti-religious books , they are not allowed . But again , only if they notice and are in the mood to apply the rules . Regarding Da Vinci code , I bought a copy of this book in Saudi Arabia so I guess it is allowed . In 2000 or 2001 , I brought 3 " inappropriate " CDs , the customs checked them and I had to pay 1500 SAR and they were confiscated . I guess I paid because I was stupid and I argued and shouted . Otherwise they would have just taken them and let me go without paying . Remember , the above is applied to books and CDs/DVDs , alcohol is not allowed and will be confiscated right away . Drugs smuggling is a serious problem and is punishable by the local laws . Last thing , inside Saudi Arabia , no one will care about the book in your hands :)
In Netherlands there is this <URL> The entire airplane has been converted into a single luxury suite for two guests . This means you have the complete craft at your disposal -- including its top-flight facilities , which include a Jacuzzi , separate shower , infrared sauna , mini bar , 3 flat screen televisions , blu-ray DVD player with a comprehensive collection of DVDs , a pantry with oven/microwave combination , coffee and tea maker , free wireless internet , air conditioning , etc. . PRICE : An overnight stay for 2 persons including a luxury breakfast costs $ 350 . The airplane is available to you from 15:00 on the day of your arrival to 11:00 on the day of your departure . There 's also a <URL>
That refers specifically to the Australian Document of Identity , which is a complicated and obscure legal fudge primarily intended to let people travel to Norfolk Island without a passport : <URL> Norfolk Island is an Australian territory that , until very recently , was largely self-governing and excluded from most Australian taxes and benefits . The government needed a way to track people traveling there , but could n't insist on a passport ( since it 's not a foreign country ) , hence the DOI .
I ca n't help with the logistics of actually getting the vehicle between Thailand and Australia , however despite what is and is n't possible there , there 's no cheap way to do what you 're asking . Australia has a relatively strict process for approving imported vehicles , which would normally only be worthwhile if the car was in some way special . If the vehicle is left-hand drive ( ie , the steering wheel is on the left ) then there are even stricter rules regarding importing . You can most of the details in the <URL> . If you are only planning to import the vehicle temporarily you can get by with having a <URL> ( CPD ) , but even this will not be cheap -- especially as you 'll have to pay for transportation in both directions . There have been a few other questions here regarding CPD that you 'll be able to find by searching . Unless there are ( very ! ) special circumstances , selling your car in Thailand and buying a new one in Australia will work out much cheaper than trying to transport it .
Kuwait 's system is similar to what has been deployed in the UAE . It allows you to apply online for the visa , and then collect it ( rather , get it stamped or entered ) when you arrive at the border . The process is outlined at <URL> ; along with the restrictions and approvals . You can apply on your own ( start <URL> ) , you do n't need a sponsor to apply on your behalf . The " E " in the e-visa means that you are no longer given a paper document or required to carry one with you .
Kangaroos are wild animals . While you will come across them if you are driving in rural areas , do not approach them . While most will simply run away , some may enter a more defensive posture especially if there are young ( joeys ) nearby . A kick from an adult can kill a human ( <URL> ) . Kangaroos can be mean vicious creatures . When I was growing up as a kid in Australia , we were cautioned away from getting anywhere near them . The best and safest way to get a selfie with a kangaroo that is n't a cardboard cutout is to go to a zoo that has a petting zoo component . Instead of kangaroos , they often pick the smaller/friendlier cousin , the wallaby ( <URL> ) . This is just one of many petting zoos that have wallabies : <URL>
I posed this question to <URL> , <URL> and <URL> on Twitter and received the following replies from each : Provided it does n't create a trip hazard , or get in the way then there should n't be a problem . - @OdeonCinemas ( <URL> ) As long as it does n't block any aisles you will be fine :) - @OdeonHelp ( <URL> ) So small bags in the Odeon appear to be fine . And the Apollo has a cloakroom : Hi James we have a cloakroom you can put your bag in !! - @ApolloVictoria ( <URL> ) Update : Having now visited , I can confirm that my small backpack was n't even given a second glance at either venue .
There are restrictions on importing left hand drive vehicles into New Zealand . It is unlikely that you would be able to purchase a new caravan overseas and successfully import it . From <URL> : Are there restrictions on LHD vehicles ? Yes . Most left-hand drive vehicles have to be converted to right-hand drive ( RHD ) before they can be driven on New Zealand roads . For modern vehicles , this is either very expensive or impractical -- especially if the vehicle has a modern frontal impact protection system ( eg airbags and crumple zones ) . The only vehicles that can be registered as LHD and driven on New Zealand roads are those that belong to one of the specific categories of LHD that are permitted by law . Before going to the expense of importing a LHD vehicle , you should check very carefully that your vehicle is either belongs to one of the permitted categories or is capable of being converted to RHD . Otherwise , you may find it impossible to use the vehicle on New Zealand roads . Additionally , New Zealand Customs has an information page on <URL> . There are concessions on taxes for residents importing certain vehicles , which would imply that non-residents may still be permitted to import such vehicles but are not eligible for the concessions . <URL> indicates that motorhomes attract both 15 % GST plus an additional 10 % duty . If you intend to take your vehicle with you when you leave , Customs states : Temporary entry -- tourist motor vehicles If you are a tourist you may import a motor vehicle into New Zealand without payment of Customs charges , provided your intention is to take the vehicle out of New Zealand at the conclusion of your visit . However , even in this case you would still be required to properly register the vehicle with NZTA for use on New Zealand roads . You would almost certainly be better off buying a ( used ? ) caravan in New Zealand and selling it when you are done . This will likely be considerably less expensive and time-consuming than attempting to import a vehicle . ( Even if you were to successfully import a vehicle , you may not be able to use it for weeks or months as it passes through customs , biosecurity , licensing paperwork , and so on . )
This almost comes under ' opinion based ' , but we can treat it as a compare-and-contrast option . Hi from Sydney , BTW . Australia is huge . Literally similar in size to the US . That does n't mean you ca n't drive across it , but you have to take things into account that do n't occur to people compared with the US : gas stations are few and far between in some places there 's long distances with nothing in-between if you break down , you might not see anyone else for hours , or days . There 's a reason the main tourist trail is on the east coast - it 's where most people live , and where most of the interesting stuff is in terms of variety . A common backpacker route ( if doing a circle route ) is to go from say , Melbourne to Sydney ( perhaps via Canberra ) , up the coast to Byron Bay , Gold Coast and the Sunshine Coast , Cairns etc , then perhaps inland/across to Darwin , down to Alice Springs ( Uluru , woo ! ) , through to Coober Pedy and Adelaide ( with Kangaroo Island ) , and back to Melbourne , or at least a similar route with alternative starting points ( perhaps Sydney ) . Perth is usually considered a flight - most would n't consider driving , busing or training - although all are options . I 've bussed from Adelaide to Alice Springs , and that alone is 20 hours . I 've had relatives who lived in Derby ( near Broome ) for a while , and there 's not much else around . I 'd love to do the drive from Perth to Broome , but it 's long and there 's not much in-between to look at . So , it depends what you 're after . If you 've got the time to do a trip that you probably wo n't get much chance to head back and do again , maybe consider the harder Perth to Broome . If you 're after seeing the sights and places that Australia is known for , then you 're better off on the east coast . If you 're going to do both , fly or bus . You do n't want to be the tired driver driving in twilight , dodging kangaroos and worrying about the gas light that 's been on for 50km . Unless of course , that 's your thing ;)
end question
start question
Which loyality program should I use for my Aerolineas Argentinas flights ?
It turned out that Flying Blue is not as restrictive as mentioned on their homepage . Even though they require you to hand in the original boarding pass , it is possible to get the miles with just the e-ticket number and any kind of proof that you paid for the flights . In my case , this was an invoice . So the answer to the question is : Send FlyingBlue an email and tell them your problem .
TL ; DR : You need liability insurance with a high limit . Your credit card wo n't get you that . Try to get your liability insurance from home , and failing that buy it at the rental desk . Your credit card might help you if you wreck the rental car , but read the fine print if you are relying on your credit card for that . You Need Liability Insurance ( from somewhere ) You need to secure liability insurance of some sort . If you are involved in an accident where there are personal injuries , your liability can easily exceed your net worth . In other words , an accident can bankrupt you . Exactly how much you might be personally liable for will generally depend on the following : the particulars of the accident the laws in the place where the accident occurred the liability insurance you carry By definition , you ca n't predict an accident . Getting a good handle on the laws regarding liability in motor-vehicle accidents in every place you travel is unrealistic . So , the only way you can mitigate your risk is by controlling the liability insurance you carry . What should my liability insurance limit be ? Insurance policies often have a maximum liability that they will shelter you from . $ 1 million seems to be common in North America . What does the limit mean ? Suppose you are in an accident where you are ultimately found liable for $ 3 million and you have a policy with a $ 1 million limit . Your insurance will pay $ 1 million to the plaintiff and you will owe the other $ 2 million . So , how do you work out how much coverage you need ? Warning : Unpleasant stuff coming up . If you do n't like thinking about accidents , horrible situations , and worst-case scenarios , skip to the next section . The answer is to get the highest liability coverage limit you can get . Everyone else , read on . Here 's how I work out how much liability insurance I carry . Based on some cursory research I once did , it is my understanding that many courts use , in part , lifetime lost wages and cost-of-care to calculate damages . So , the worst-case accident is probably maiming a vehicle of young professionals . Let 's make some assumptions : there are 5 people in the car all are professionals earning $ 70,000 per year all are 23 years old all are expected to live until 80 years old all are injured so badly that they ca n't ever work again all require care costing $ 30,000 per year for the rest of their lives The math goes like this : $ 100,000 per person per year x 5 people x 67 years = $ 33.5 million . You wo n't be able to buy a policy that gives you that much coverage ( the highest I 've found is $ 10 million ) , so just get the highest coverage you can obtain . Some of you might be thinking " I do n't need liability insurance because I do n't have any net worth to lose if I am liable . " That may be true . You may be broke and you may be able to maim a car full of people without you or your non-existent insurance paying them a cent . But , by knowingly driving around uninsured you are effectively saying " I am putting other humans at risk of life and limb and have declined to provide them with any possibility of compensation if I hurt them just so I can save a few bucks on insurance , and I think that 's OK . " It 's your choice . I know where my moral compass points . Your credit card ( most likely ) wo n't provide you with liability insurance . I have only seen <URL> that offers liability coverage of any kind for rental cars -- there might be others out there , but no card I have been eligible for provides liability coverage . ( If you do find one others , please link to the policy wording document in the comments . ) Credit card policies typically provide coverage for loss and damage to the vehicle but not liability coverage . You can get liability insurance from the rental car company , but you wo n't really know what you 're buying . Every car rental company I have rented from offers some sort of " liability insurance " at the point where you sign the rental agreement . There are a few problems with buying such insurance : the coverage limit is usually $ 1 million or less there are usually all sorts of exclusions in the policy wording sometimes the rental desk can not even provide you with a policy wording document assuming you can get a policy wording document from the desk , it would generally take hours of reading to understand what you are actually covered for it is almost impossible to obtain a policy wording document beforehand , and , even if you can get a rental company to provide you with one , there 's no guarantee that the one you agree to when you pick up your car will be the same Despite all of these problems , buying coverage at the rental desk is almost certainly better than not having any coverage . Furthermore , there are many circumstances where it is your only practical means of obtaining liability coverage . Get liability coverage for your rental car from an insurer in your home country/state/province . It is common that you can obtain liability insuran
Indonesia uses European-style two-pin round plugs ( ' C ' - type is the most common variant found ) : Voltage is at 220 V 50 Hz ( as opposed to 110 V 60 Hz in US ) . Most modern electronic equipment that has auto-sensing capability should work without needing a voltage converter , you will need a plug adapter though which can buy cheap online . As for Apple products specifically have a look at <URL> .
No , it 's not the same . Whether that 's the case for a given journey will depend on a few details but , unlike the US , there is no blanket requirement to pick up your luggage and walk it through customs when entering Germany or the EU . Usually , in Europe , your luggage will be routed to your final destination and you will clear customs there . You have n't provided much detail but I expect it wo n't be necessary to collect your luggage in this case . However , immigration formalities ( passport check by the police , Schengen entry stamp , etc. ) will have to be completed in Munich . There is some info on transit time in Munich in <URL>
To travel under VWP , travel purpose must be permitted on a visitor ( B ) visa , as mentioned as the first point in the <URL> . This means , your ESTA is basically a simplified B1/B2 visa , same rules apply , the difference is the process only . Now , checking the rules for both <URL> and <URL> visas lists nothing about your specific " writing " purpose , but indeed it does allow you to travel for " holidays " purposes , which is the main purpose of your travel as you mentioned . The only thing that was mentioned a few times with emphasis is " getting paid from a US based entity " , which is totally prohibited for holders of B visas , that means also prohibited for people on ESTA , and you explicitly mentioned that you are not going to make money , so we can safely assume that you will be fine doing your writing in your free time while you are on a " vacation " in the US . The closest thing I could find in the rules that might be similar to your situation was " researching " , and the rules allow that : Independent research , no salary/income from a U.S. based source , or benefit to U.S. institution . Conclusion : There is nothing in the rules explicitly prohibits you from writing while you are on a vacation in the US as long as you are not making money out of it from a US based entity . So , feel free to write .
I was in a similar situation before , I found out that drivers are on minimum wage and do not stick to office hours . Their employers usually summon them whenever they wish . So they will welcome tips and it might be a real help for them actually . The employer was a friend/colleague , and I noticed that she tipped him , he buys the stuff with his own money ( coffee or something ) then when she pays him back she gives a little more ( 10 or 20 pesos ) . When I was with the driver alone ( twice ) running my private errands , I tipped him at the end of the day , once 100 pesos and the second time it was 200 pesos because it was a few errands with many stops , he carried stuff for me as well , I did n't ask him but he insisted . The last day he just took me to the airport , I gave him a 10 USD bill as I was running out of pesos . I have n't asked a local about this specific situation at the time , but I know locals do tip drivers/waiters and I did that in my previous visits . I think my estimation was right because the guy seemed happy and helpful . You might not be obliged to do so , but it 's always a good idea to help people on minimum wages .
There seems to be a <URL> going back to 2005 and <URL> on the length of PINs w.r.t. to US banks but here is the thing . There are ATMs ( Cash Machines ) that are owned by banks and there are cash machines that are owned by other companies and are installed at any place you can think of the thing is there is no way to know what fractions of Cash machines are limited to 4 digits and which are n't . Your bank may have relationships with other banks outside home country like <URL> if you look at international locations . On top of this it may have branches in those countries , so you can be reasonably sure that ATMs in your bank 's " Global ATM Alliance " or their overseas branches will be able to accept 4 + digit pin . If you come up on a standalone ATM it usually states who owns or runs them like ATMs in <URL> are run by <URL> , which is as if you are going to a Chase bank branch and are unlikely to have any problems with long PINs , others may be some private companies that just placed it in the corner stores and potentially not accept any longer then 4 digits . Also if you read the discussions I linked you can see that in some cases just first 4 digits may be enough to identify you to the ATM , so you may want to check with your bank , whether this type of scenario will work in your case .
Since there is apparently no " main destination " in your trip , your visa application should be processed by the first Schengen state you will enter , in your case Germany . This is from article 5 of the Schengen visa code ( Regulation ( EC ) No 810/2009 ) : The Member State competent for examining and deciding on an application for a uniform visa shall be : ( a ) the Member State whose territory constitutes the sole destination of the visit ( s ) ; ( b ) if the visit includes more than one destination , the Member State whose territory constitutes the main destination of the visit ( s ) in terms of the length or purpose of stay ; or ( c ) if no main destination can be determined , the Member State whose external border the applicant intends to cross in order to enter the territory of the Member States . [ I highlighted the most important bit ] The border between Germany and Austria is an " internal border " , which is why there will be no systematic passport check when landing in Vienna . Frankfurt is where you will cross the external border to enter the Schengen area ( which is called " territory of the Member States " in the official regulation ) .
Yes , Iceland is closely associated with the EU and all EU citizens can go there with their ID card ( if they have one , of course ) . It 's also part of the Schengen area , which means there is no systematic border checks and it 's even possible you wo n't have to show your ID at all . Finally , Iceland is also a member of the <URL> , which means that Swedish citizens were already exempt from the passport requirement anyway , as mentioned on <URL> . Depending on airline policy and on the airport , you might still have to show an ID at some stage but your national ID card will be enough .
The core differences between a phone app and a dedicated handheld gps are : battery life - the gps will have much longer battery life , but you have a charger for your phone so as long as you get enough sun you 'll be fine . What 's the weather like where you are heading ? ruggedness - gps devices are considerably stronger than an iPhone . Generally they are waterproof as well . Again , this may not be an issue , unless you fall in a river ... sensitivity - dedicated gps hardware is often much better at ascertaining your position . This may or may not be useful for you - in steep sided mountain ravines it can make all the difference . So if you do n't need any of those features , go with your phone . Personally I 'd always take the gps unit and my phone . And while I may log my track on the phone as well , my core nav service would be the gps , and my comms service would be the phone .
Most travel insurance policies will cover delayed or missed flights , but you need to read the fine print very carefully to find out exactly what they will cover and in what situations , as it varies dramatically between policies . Most policies will only cover instances where the missed flight was beyond your control . eg , they may cover your train breaking down and you being stuck on it for several hours , but not you simply sleeping in . In most cases the burden of proof is going to be on you to prove that missing the flight was n't your fault , so even if being stuck in the worst traffic jam for 10 years is a valid reason - how do you prove it ? The payout/assistance offered in such situations also varies . Some policies will only cover the price you originally paid for the ticket , which will probably be far less than it will cost for a last-minute replacement . Other policies will cover the cost of the new ticket , as well as hotels for the delay , etc. .
In my opinion Airbnb is nothing but a short-let provider . Yes people do rent out their spare rooms , and thus welcome you in their house . But they do so in exchange for money , very much like a hotel , or a bed-and-breakfast , would do . In that sense I do n't think tipping is necessary . If you want to show appreciation to an excellent host , the best way to do so is to bring a gift . Once again , this is not mandatory . Now , <URL> ( " why would they ? " , you might ask ) . However I did find an <URL> stating that you should n't tip your host : Bonus Tip : Should I tip my Airbnb host ? This question that has cropped up repeatedly since we published this original post . The short answer is no , you should not tip your Airbnb host . Tipping is a way of showing appreciation for good service , but Airbnb hosts do n't see what they 're doing as a service as such -- rather , they 're sharing their home with you as an equal . You and they co-exist in the same space ; they do not ' serve ' you in the same way that hotel staff might do . As such , there is no need to tip them . If you want to show your appreciation , a small gift such as a box of chocolates or even just a note would be more appropriate . <URL> seems to share this opinion : Accommodations Leaving a tip for your Airbnb or HomeAway host is not necessary , and may in fact counter the communal spirit of home-sharing . Instead leave the hosts a gift to thank them for the stay , a nice bottle of wine or even fresh flowers .
If you go to <URL> and enter the airline and flight number , you can select a particular day , then select the event timeline tab . On that , you may see an aircraft equipment designation ( AEQP ) , e.g. 77W ( Boeing 777-300ER ) for QR557 yesterday and 788 ( Boeing 787-800 ) for the QR1369 . You can see this for a few days prior to today but have to register an account to see earlier dates . For future dates , you can usually see what the anticipated aircraft is when you allocate your seat or buy your ticket , but this is subject to change . Viewing the flights on your route might show you how likely the anticipated aircaft is .
By regulation no . For the online ticket , <URL> : Online-Tickets are non-transferable and are only valid for the person named during booking ( and travellers accompanying them , if applicable ) . The tickets are valid only in connection with the traveller 's selected identification card . In practice , they swipe the card and if it 's not entirely obvious that the wrong person has handed them the credit card ( e.g. obvious male name on card given by a female person ) they most likely wo n't notice . Does n't make it legal though .
Yes you can , portable electronic devices ( PEDS ) are divided into few categories , some of them are : PEDs allowed all the times : such as some medical devices . They are allowed during all phases of the flight , for example some medical oxygen devices . PEDs allowed during cruise : Most of the electronic devices are in this category , you can use them during the cruise phase of the flight , not allowed during critical phases ( take off , landing , taxiing , . etc ) . This include laptops , MP3 players , tablets . etc. . PEDs not allowed at all : Some devices are not allowed during the flight at all times , such as walkie talkies . These devices could interfere with the operation of the aircraft hence they are strictly prohibited . In the past few years things have changed a bit , for example cell phones used to be prohibited at all times but with the new airplanes they are allowed during cruise in major airlines , you can even use them and make calls . Same thing for WiFi , new airplanes have WiFi connection which will be available in the cruise phase . In general , it is the airline 's responsibility to show what devices are allowed and when during the safety demonstration . Things are different from an airline to another but in general these categories are the same .
This is an excerpt from <URL> and <URL> See also <URL> even though it is about to be marked duplicate . <URL> has very powerful search options ( see the advanced options ) , including choice of return and departure day , length of stay , period within which the trip should happen and a range of departure and arrival airports . Exactly as you ask they look for connections on separate tickets <URL> , even on different ( low-cost ) airlines . <URL> <URL> does the same and let 's you circle departure/destination in on a map , has date range and also some kind of " promise " to help you if you miss a non-guaranteed connection . Finally be aware of <URL>
The important thing to do , is to know what flag your card belongs . What I realized in my trips was the ATM machines do n't cares about the bank or country of your card . The flag is important . If the flag belongs to Visa or Mastercard , being assured that even most of ATM Machines will accept this . This is important also to discover if the bank that has emitted your card has agreement with other banks around the world . This implies on : if you ca n't withdraw your money on any in ATM Machine , you can do it on a bank that has agreement with yours . But do n't carry all your money in your card . For you own safe , it 's important to carry some amount in cash . That prevent you both in case of lost of your card and in case of you ca n't withdraw your money in an ATM machine . I hope this can help you .
A quite a good resource is imho the standard clock setting in Microsoft Windows installations : image from talkstandards.com As you can see , it 's particularly North America , India , the Philippines , Colombia , Egypt , Saudi Arabia , and Australia This is more or less confirmed by <URL> that states that in most English-speaking regions , particularly the United States , the Philippines and the United Kingdom and its former colonies , the 12-hour clock is the predominant form of stating the time .
If you have a choice without any other considerations ( i.e. similar price , time etc. ) , DCA is much closer to the center of the city than IAD . About 10 minutes versus 45 minutes driving ( may vary with traffic ) . DCA is , however , a domestic airport . If you are flying in from abroad ( as you say you are ) , you will be connecting somewhere else in the US to end at DCA . Conversely , IAD has direct flights from many international hubs . Ultimately , I do n't think the choice of DC airport matters all that much for an international traveler . Yes , you save a bit of time using DCA in terms of getting to/from the airport . But , the overall itinerary ( including layovers and price ) is likely to be a much greater factor in your decision . Indeed , to get the best itinerary/price you may also want to consider Baltimore-Washington International Airport ( BWI ) . It is a bit further away than IAD ( 50-55 min drive ) , but if you can get a more direct or cheaper flight there , it may be a good option for you . So , my advice , check out flights to all 3 DC airports . Consider the overall price and the total travel time ( including connections and travel from the airport ) and choose the best flight overall . I doubt the 30-45 minutes that DCA saves you on the ground will be the deciding factor . Update in response to edit Both airports have shuttles . They are privately operated in both cases . DCA is also connected to the DC metro . To take the metro from IAD requires a shuttle bus to the end of the line . Prices going from DCA may be lower than from IAD ( depending on which mode of transport you choose ) . SuperShuttle ( a shared ride shuttle service ) charges 29 USD dollars from either airport to the city center . To reiterate , if you have a choice between two travel itineraries that are otherwise identical in terms of price and travel duration , choose DCA . It is closer , saving you time . You have the option of using the metro . And just getting a taxi wont be an overly expensive option .
Unless you 're from a country that requires you to obtain an <URL> , there is no sharing of information as a general rule . Even in cases where there are information sharing agreements , such as between <URL> , <URL> , or in the <URL> , the information that is shared is about people from outside the info-sharing nations , but not about their own citizens . It may be possible for one country to ask for legal assistance to obtain information about a specific person , and who knows what information is shared by the secret services , of course , but on the visible side , countries do not know what their citizens do while away . EDIT As pointed out by @MeNoTalk , the <URL> , where airplane passenger data is transmitted to the destination country . Thus , your government may not know where you 're headed , but they will know from where you return , if you come back by plane .
end question
start question
Does condition 8115 mean you ca n't check your work email ?
This is a standard clause found on tourist visas for many countries . What it basically means is you can not legally seek employment within Australia or its territories or be employed by any entity in Australia and receive income from it . So checking your work email or working offline or even online for their employer outside Australia does n't violate the terms of their visa . But IMHO violates the term vacation .
The US Government does n't publicly specify how it decides on a person 's eligibility for a visa , hence there can be no " official " answer to your query . In general , your local embassy will only know that you applied for the Green Card Lottery , if you are selected as those names are sent to the embassy , non-selected names that are not . But they do ask if you have previously applied . And so it is up to you to decide on how honest to be . What an immigration lawyer told me ( a neighbor ) is that if your qualifications are solid for the visa , having applied for the lottery has little effect . But if you are borderline , then it becomes a bigger factor .
It kind of depends where you 're going but I 've had experience driving in Norway when I traveled there a couple years ago . Their roads are generally in GREAT shape . In some places they have luminescent paint/markers on the road . Part of having such high taxes , great public services . To be fair that applies to their major roads and anything around cities . The country roads I drove on were pretty good . Its the remote roads and mountainous places that may not be maintained as often . As it has been mentioned , winter does get very cold/slippery outside of Oslo and other major cities . The rental company may have winter tires on the vehicle in that case .
After a quick look on PubMed , I found a meta-study on the effects of melatonin in various contexts , published in Nutrition Journal ( it 's open access , so the article is freely accessible without any kind of academic subscription ) . It makes a " weak recommendation in favor of melatonin use for rebalancing the sleep-wake cycle in people with jet lag . " Here are the meta-study 's results concerning jet lag ( emphasis mine ) : Eight [ 37 -- 44 ] RCTs with 972 total participants characterized melatonin use for counteracting jet lag . Almost all of the studies were of high ( + ) quality [ 37 , 39 -- 44 ] , with the exception of one poor ( − ) quality study [ 38 ] , which favored neither melatonin nor control , despite a large sample size ( n = 339 ) . Of the seven high ( + ) quality studies , one [ 40 ] favored neither melatonin nor control . The remaining six [ 37 , 39 , 41 -- 44 ] RCTs favored melatonin , including two [ 42 , 43 ] large studies ( n = 320 [ 44 ] and n = 160 [ 41 ] ) and one [ 39 ] which noted a limitation that melatonin increased tiredness the next morning . Melatonin appears to be relatively safe based on the six [ 38 , 39 , 41 -- 44 ] studies that reported adverse events , citing occasional , but not serious adverse events and interactions . Based on the high quality and favorable results reported , the [ subject matter experts ] concluded that in a jet lagged population , further research may have an impact on the confidence in the estimate of the effect , and as such , provide a weak recommendation in favor of melatonin use for rebalancing the sleep-wake cycle in people with jet lag . Source : Costello , R. B. , Lentino , C. V. , Boyd , C. C. , O’Connell , M. L. , Crawford , C. C. , Sprengel , M. L. , &amp; Deuster , P. A. ( 2014 ) . The effectiveness of melatonin for promoting healthy sleep : a rapid evidence assessment of the literature . Nutrition Journal , 13 , 106 . <URL>
When you take an overnight train in Russia and you book a sleeping compartment ( there are two classes of these ) , the compartments come with a mattress and a pillow . For the additional option you have asked about , , an attendant will come around and deliver a bottom sheet , top sheet , a pillow case , and a blanket . It 's impeccably sanitary and well-advised for this reason . If you do not purchase the option you get the standard mattress and uncased pillow , less sanitary . You do not get the previous passenger 's stuff ( except his detritus ) ; previously used bed clothing gets collected by the attendant .
You have a Schengen visa with start/end dates of 6/19 and 7/19 . Between these two dates you have been given a total of 20 days to spend in the zone . The issuer expects you to spend your 20 days between 6/19 and 7/19 . You are asking if it 's OK to enter the zone on 7/10 and leave on 7/30 because your visa will be valid on your entry date and will have 20 days of unspent leave on it . No . When a Schengen expires , all unspent leave is lost . In your case it means you will have 10 unspent days on 7/19 which are forfeit . Those days can not be used beyond the expiry date . Presumably the start/end dates and the 20 days sync up to the itinerary you provided when you obtained your visa . If there has been a material change in your itinerary , you can ask for your visa to be revoked and reissued to accommodate your new plans . They like it when people do this because it demonstrates a proactive attitude towards observing the rules . See also : <URL> See also : <URL> See also : <URL> Also : <URL>
The point of it is to show that you 've got a plan and know how much it 's going to cost you etc. . They want to know WHY you 're going . They already know how ( train/plane ) but want the details . SO if you can show that you 're headed to France for 3 weeks to check out war memorials , before crossing to Amsterdam for some fun and out through Munich for Octoberfest , and have hostel bookings and the like , it shows that you 've thought about it and have some idea of what you 're doing , where you 're going and maybe how you 're going to survive ( accommodation etc ) . For example , <URL> will suggest that you put together a travel plan . This could consist of the itinerary of your tour ( if you 're doing one ) , or otherwise - your accommodation , health insurance . Again , <URL> demands if you 're booking through them that you include accommodation for every single night of your stay in the region , but I 've had friends who have been issued visas without doing that . Generally , however , as per <URL> , <URL> , <URL> and <URL> , they 'll insist that you provide : proof of accommodation for the duration of your stay proof of travel + health insurance proof of funds for the duration of your stay Indeed , the <URL> suggests you need documented evidence of : Round trip reservation or itinerary with dates and flight numbers specifying entry and exit from Schengen state . Some Schengen authorities accept the itinerary when applying for the visa but request the original air - ticket when visa is collected ( please verify ) . Proof of sufficient funds for duration of stay , ( Bank statement of the past three months ) ( min . amount required is different in each country -- please verify with the relevant consular authority ) Cash will not be accepted as proof of foreign exchange . Travel/health/accident insurance : a one-page document stating that the applicant is covered by a Schengen Travel Medical Insurance , i.e. minimum medical coverage of the Rand equivalent of Euro 30.000 for all medical expenses , including repatriation dead or alive , occurring in any Schengen country . Accommodation : confirmed hotel reservation is requested ( hotel vouchers are not necessarily proof of confirmed hotel booking ) . If applicant is staying with a relative or friend , the relevant authorities may request invitation letter from the host with copy of his passport or ID . Authentication of this document by the relevant authorities may be requested . In case of a pre-paid tour please provide us details of the tour with a proof of payment to the tour operator .
The problem with dirty clothes is they will take huge space when packing them again ( if not done correctly ) , logically the clothes are the same but after packing the dirty ones the space is not enough . Usually this is due to packing them in an ugly way like the ways you mentioned ( ball them or putting them in shoe bags ) . The best thing I have always been doing and it always worked and I never had space problem is by folding them as if they were clean , then put them in a plastic bag , squeeze the air out of the plastic bag and seal it . Squeezing the air will make it less bulky . This way you will not need more space than what you needed when you first packed them and it will not mix with your new clothes and smell ( if available ) will not spread all over the bag . If no plastic bag available you can do the same with a laundry bag ( usually available in the cupboards in hotels ) . Anyway , putting clothes in a plastic bag and squeezing the air out is also good idea for clean clothes to save space .
It just means that there are expensive departure dates because they 're popular . 3 Dec to 15 Jan is the Christmas rush period as school ends and so on , while the June one is the other big holiday period . It 'll be based on your first flight , especially as out of Australia where you are , that 's going to be one of the biggest . ( Just looked at the page , that 's a pretty good rate for a RTW ticket ! )
It looks like it is a yearly thing , renewing the old one when the new one is up . In the church I read about it was done as part of the Epiphany Mass. . It is a blessing to the house . 20 and 15 being the year , C ( K ) , M , B being the initials of the traditional names of the wise men , Caspar , Melchior and Balthasar , they can also stand for Christus Mansionem Benedicat , the Latin words meaning , May Christ bless this home . I found that on <URL> which explains more about the custom . And here is <URL> , with an other year . As you can see from the sites I linked to , it is not restricted to Czech republic , one of them clearly about a church in the UK while the other is about seeing the letters and numbers on the walls in Germany . In the comments it is mentioned that it is common in Czech republic and in several German speaking areas , and that it is often done by ( young ) children , as part of the Epiphany traditions . That is the feast celebrating the comming of the three wise men to Jesus soon after birth , the day of the celebration is January 6th ( in the Roman Catholic church at least , and in the churches split off from it . )
Update 17 July 2015 Relevant images from the <URL> glossary can now be referred to for the ' official ' descriptions ... Some additional terms ... And because it 's relevant here , the Chief Inspector 's definition of ' entry clearance ' ... Original Answer As ' pnuts ' suggested , ECO stands for Entry Clearance Officer . They are a mid-level <URL> employed by the Home Office but attached to the Foreign Office and posted to a <URL> . They make decisions on Entry Clearance applications ( see <URL> ) . They report to an ECM , Entry Clearance Manager . Entry Clearance applications are their term for visa applications made abroad . Some situations require the person to have an entry clearance prior to arrival , hence the term ' entry clearance ' . Not everyone requires an entry clearance , some nationalities , like Canadians , can arrive without one and get ' leave to enter ' at a border control . Because they are attached to the Foreign Office and posted abroad , an ECO generally has the diplomatic rank of Vice Consul . This convention is the same throughout the Commonwealth and the USA uses the same diplomatic conventions . ECM 's have the diplomatic rank of Consul . The counterpart to an ECO is the Immigration Officer ( IO ) . They work in airports on British soil and issue ' leave to enter ' ( also known as ' visa on arrival ' ) to those who do not require an entry clearance . ( NOTE : see <URL> for a relevant article ) They also examine and stamp entry clearances . The IO can cancel an entry clearance and place the holder in detention for removal . They can also detain and remove people asking for ' leave to enter ' . Because of this and a few other factors ( like standing and having to wear a uniform ) , IO 's get paid more and have more opportunities when they leave the government . NOTE : While there is ONE set of <URL> , the IO must refer to the <URL> whereas the ECO refers to the <URL> . Incredible numbers of people on the net mix these up and hence get it wrong . The IDI 's and ECG 's are NOT the rules and lots of mistakes get made by people treating them as if they are the rules . NOTE : ECO 's do not have to be British nationals , sometimes they will hire the spouse of a British national who has moved abroad . Sometimes they will make a local hire as an Entry Clearance Assistant ( ECA ) who rises up to become an ECO . Dedicated crown service is a way to acquire British nationality . NOTE : As long as we 're nitpicking on terminology , I can add that the British Embassy absolutely NEVER issues a visa . It 's not their job , they do n't know how , and they are not authorized , and if they tried they would get fired . Visas are issued by a <URL> . The same holds true for the rest of the Commonwealth and other countries like the USA , Japan , etc. . They may be in the same building , but they are not the same thing . NOTE : I wrote both linked articles but have no connection to the site . And the site itself has no commercial content .
There are multiple purposes for scanning the passport : They confirm the legitimacy of the document . It pulls up your record in their internal/system databases . It pulls up your immigration history . It pulls up your information from other related government organizations ( for example , the State department - which issues the visas ) Keeping in mind that INS is a federal agency ; it is reasonable to believe they have information on people that is available at the federal level - for example , a federal warrant . As far as seeing things in other countries ; to an extent they demand this information because all people traveling to the US are subject to delivery of their API ( Advanced Passenger Information ) which includes information about your itinerary , port of embark/disembark ; travel documents ; travel reservation information and possibly payment method ( s ) . So already they have a large treasure of your information . As far as sharing information - the most common source of shared information on non-citizens is Interpol ( the International Police ) which is what some governments ( and private organizations ) can use . Interpol does issue arrest warrants which are ( supposed ) to be honored by all those states that are bound to the Interpol agreement . This is one source of shared information . Of course beyond this , countries with close diplomatic relations or other intelligence agreements do share information . The US is party to such agreements such as the <URL> ( which covers the UK , Canada , New Zealand , Australia ) and involves sharing of information and intelligence . Such information is used ( among other areas ) for screening passengers to identify high-risk or otherwise flagged persons . However , unless explicitly shared - this information is not visible beyond the normal purview of the agency that holds the information . For example , your speeding ticket in the US is not available to the border control in the UK ( and vice versa ) .
Tipping in cruises are categorized in 3 ways : Mandatory : Most cruise lines have a preset gratuity amount . The ones I have been on range from US$ 11-15 per person per day , which covers all ship staff : customer-facing and the one 's working behind-the-scenes . In fact this form of tipping covers a major portion of their salaries . Now many travel agencies roll these into their packages . Look for an itemized line reading " Prepaid Gratuities " . If absent , the charge will be applied daily to the credit card you use to place a deposit while on board . Obligatory : You will notice that most staff on reputable cruise liners will go above and beyond their call of duty . This can range from exceptional housekeeping , to some great recommendations at the dinner table . Some cruise operators will place an envelope in your room , where you can place cash tips for exceptional service , and also the person to address it to . Passive Tipping : We were told that post-cruise we would receive an extensive questionnaire soliciting feedback . Sure enough , we did . There were several opportunities in the forms to single out employees for recognition . I am told that the comments and citations go a long way in deciding their career path . So if someone does impress you a great deal , do make a note of their full name .
Changing flights is a complex process that involves a lot of rules ( differences in applicable fare classes , collecting additional fees or possibly issuing partial refunds , etc ) . Like any complex business process , it would cost a lot of money to develop an easy-to-use/intuitive web-based interface for it that any user ( not a professionally trained ticketing agent ) could use . The investment to build such a web application is simply not worth it for most airlines and travel sites . They make their money from ticket sales , not from ticket changes , so it 's logical that this is where they would invest . Very few people will specifically prefer to buy from travel provider X only because travel provider X has an easy web-based way of changing tickets . And ticket change fees are usually high enough to more than justify the hourly rate of the ticketing agent manually changing the ticket over the phone . Having said all this , if you are a savvy traveler , you can speed up the manual process by doing your research ahead of time ( find the exact flight you want to change to online , find out if it has the fare class you need , etc ) - this way , it 's a simple matter of telling the flight number and date to the phone agent .
Basically , it 's because the the fare rules for these flights explicitly disallow what you 're trying to do . Firstly , AT do n't have a specific fare published from SID to NSI . This is n't surprising , and does n't in itself normally stop you from booking a ticket between them as you can ( normally ) just book it as two separate fares for the two flights - all on the same ticket . They do have fares published between SID and CMN , and between CMN and NSI - so you can book those two sectors individually . The problem is that all of the fares that they have published between those cities include the following rule : An " End-on-end " ticket is what it 's called when you use two separate fares to create a single journey . As you can see , they are allowing end-on-end combinations ONLY with domestic fares . This means that although you can book these two segments individually , you ca n't book them as a part of a single ticket - as the rules explicitly disallow it when the connecting flight is international like yours is . Combinability rules like this are common on cheaper fares , but in this case they have the exact same rule on even the full-fare ( Y ) tickets , so it 's not just bumping the price up like you 'd sometimes see , but actually stopping you from doing it at all . The reason you can book SID-DLA is because they have a specific fare between those two cities ( TA0W0CVA SID to DLA ) , so you 're booking it as a single fare rather than attempting to combine two fares . This could be an oversight on their part ( eg , someone forgot to create a fare for SID-NSI ) , or it could be deliberate - nobody but the airline fare management people will know , and you 're not going to be able to get in touch with them ...
In my eyes 7/7 is shorthand for French which translates to . Meaning the business is open all week . Note that this does not necessarily mean that the business is also open 24h . Indeed in France you often read written on shops that are open every day of the week ( note the little , standing for == ) . For example , take <URL> showing a list of 24h businesses , and look at the description of the 24h pharmacy : Pharmacie ouverte 24h/24 et 7j/7 à Paris
According to the <URL> : U.S. driver 's licenses may be used in Guatemala for a period of thirty days . So the officer was right . Anyway , according to the same page , you have three options to drive there after the thirty days : International Driver 's Licenses : We understand that Guatemala recognizes the International Driver 's License , which is available in the United States through chapters of the American Automobile Association ( AAA ) . When driving with an International Driver 's License , a valid U.S. state license should also be carried . Temporary Driving Permits or Permisos : The Guatemalan National Civil Police can issue temporary permits or permisos to foreigners who hold valid driver 's licenses from another country and who need to drive in Guatemala beyond their initial thirty day period in the country . Such permisos cost Q30 per month of validity , and may not be issued for a period in excess of the applicant 's authorized stay ( i.e. , the term of their visa ) in Guatemala . There are tramitadores in Guatemala City and elsewhere who may be able to assist an applicant in obtaining such a permiso . When driving with a permiso , one must carry one 's valid foreign driver 's license in addition to the permiso . Permisos can be obtained at : Departamento de Transito Galerias del Sur Calzada Aguilar Batres 34-70 , Zona 11 Tel. (502) 2320-4545 www.dtransito.gob.gt Guatemalan Driver 's Licenses : At the present , we have been advised that the Department of Transit of the National Civil Police will only issue Guatemalan driver 's licenses to persons who are properly documented as residents of Guatemala . Persons who have applied for Guatemalan resident status , but who have not yet been granted that status , are not eligible for Guatemalan driver 's licenses . When applying for a Guatemalan driver 's license , in addition to the application form , foreign residents of Guatemala need to provide the following documents and information to the Department of Transit : ( i ) six cedula-sized photos ; ( ii ) the applicant 's blood type ; ( iii ) whether the applicant is allergic to penicillin ; ( iv ) a photocopy of the applicant 's passport or cedula ; and ( v ) a valid foreign driver 's license ( to avoid having to take the written and driving tests again ) . An applicant will also need to submit to a vision exam .
" Leave to enter " is short for " Leave to enter the United Kingdom " . It is defined in <URL> ... <URL> Six months was initially selected as the maximum amount of leave that can be given to a non-visa national because that interval ties in to lots of other legislation rooted in English common law where the interval of six months plays an important part . In the <URL> , the usage of six months is explicit per <URL> ... A visitor is a person who is coming to the UK , usually for up to six months , for a temporary purpose , for example as a tourist , to visit friends or family or to carry out a business activity . How is the six months counted ? Is it a number of days or is it six calendar months regardless of the number of days in each month ? Days have nothing to do with it . Sometimes six months can be 181 days or more and other times it can be 179 days or less . You add six months to the date on your leave to enter and that 's your expiry date . The counting method for corner cases where the person arrives on the 31st of the month is the final day of the 6th month . Examples : People granted leave to enter on 31 Aug 2015 should be gone by midnight 29 Feb 2016 . But consider that people granted leave to enter on 28 Feb 2015 should be gone by midnight 28 August 2015 . However , it is not carved in stone . People have tried taking some of these corner cases to court and have achieved mixed results depending upon what they were trying to accomplish . I have also seen a case where a silver-tongued individual was able to out whittle an official on a corner case and avoid an overstay penalty . Any ambiguities are built into the law from a long , long time back and they are not likely to become more precise in the current era because ' six months ' has a lot to do with a lot of things in the legislative framework . If you think you are in a corner case , it is best to query the IO on arrival what your expiry is . Related : <URL> See also : <URL> See also : <URL>
Except for a few special cases , a ticket to London Terminals is only valid until you reach your first of the London Terminals . It is almost never valid by tube . As explained on the <URL> Tickets issued for travel to/from London usually show ' London Terminals ' as the destination/origin rather than naming a specific station . This is because the ticket is valid to more than one London Terminal station provided it 's on any reasonable line of route . Tickets can only be used on National Rail services . For example , a ticket from Brighton to London Terminals is valid to Victoria , Waterloo ( changing at Clapham Junction ) , London Bridge , Blackfriars and City Thameslink or Charing Cross Waterloo East or Cannon Street ( changing at London Bridge ) . It would not be valid to , for example , London Euston or Paddington as this would not be on the line of route and would involve crossing London using another mode of transport . If you want to get from Reading ( or further west ) to London Bridge on a London Terminals ticket , going via Paddington is not allowed . To go Reading - Paddington - London Bridge , you need to buy a ticket to London Zone U1 , eg <URL> , which includes the onwards tube journey . Alternately , if you 're determined to get yourself to London Bridge on your current ticket ... You can route yourself on the Reading to Waterloo train , and change at either Clapham Junction , or ( post-August ) Waterloo + Waterloo East . Either way it 'll be a lot lot slower , but your <URL> via this slow route to London Bridge .
Roaming in Europe with GSM phones generally works very well . I do n't have experience with this particular combination but I have done it across various countries ( including France with a T-mobile subscription from another country than the US ) and never had a problem placing a call or sending a SMS ( I had trouble with MMS but who cares about MMS today ? ) . I also think data coverage is generally good in Western Europe , although personally I tend to turn it off and rely on wifi networks as data roaming used to be quite expensive . <URL> provides some details applicable to your specific scenario . It also confirms that the main roaming partner in France is Orange . It 's the remnant of the historical telecom state monopoly and the biggest network in France so I would n't worry about coverage . The main question is what your plan covers and how much it will cost you . As far as I can tell , what you get for free is 2G technologies and that 's quite slow . You have to pay more for " high-speed " data ( see the post above , the <URL> and also these reports on <URL> and <URL> ) . Thus , I would n't expect much from the free data roaming .
end question
start question
Which airlines provide free stopovers ?
Most airlines do n't charge extra for stopovers ( in fact , more often , they charge less , because the route is less convenient than a non-stop flight ) . They like to advertise " free stopovers " to make you think this is a great benefit they are giving you . For example , if you are flying from New York to Dubai , the rich business traveller is going to want to take Emirates nonstop . Since Emirates is the only airline operating that route nonstop , they can charge whatever they want ( it 's showing as $ 2270 right now ) . Meanwhile , British Airlines , Qatar , Air France , KLM , United , Delta , and Royal Jordanian would all love to take your money on that route , but they ca n't do it nonstop , so they offer cheaper fares ( now showing $ 1186 - $ 1782 ) with connections in their home airports ( London , Doha , Paris , Amsterdam , Washington , Atlanta , and Amman , respectively ) . And they will all be happy to let you stay over in their home town for a day or six without extra charge if it induces you to tolerate the connection . Since very few people actually WANT to go to Iceland , and connecting in Reykjavik is hardly anybody 's idea of a good time , Icelandair has to advertise " Free Stopovers " to induce people to think this is a great bargain and a fun thing to do . IN FACT , in many cases , you will find cheaper fares from A - > B - > C - > B - > A than you will find from A - > B - > A , because of the premium placed on nonstop travel . To find " free stopovers " , just do an online search for your end point , and look at the various connection cities that are available . ( <URL> does a good job of this ) . Then if you want to book it , redo the search as a multilegged trip and you should see that the calculated fare is the same or even cheaper depending on travel days . So for example , if you want to see what stopovers are available from New York to Dubai , you do the search in Hipmunk and you 'll see various flights connecting in London , Doha , Paris , Amsterdam , Washington , Atlanta , and Amman . So now you can search for multi-legged journeys from New York to Paris to Dubai to New York and the fare should come out similar to the Paris connection option . ( I actually just tried that and saw that it was about $ 30 more , which is probably just an airport tax ) . The best stopover options are in major cities where large airlines have their hubs . So even though Lufthansa is n't advertising anything on the New York to Dubai route , I 'm pretty sure that I could search for New York - Frankfurt - Dubai - New York and find a fare that was pretty cheap compared to the New York - Dubai nonstop . ( I just tried that and it was $ 800 less to stop in Frankfurt than to go nonstop , and only $ 100 more than the cheapest connection ) . If you are planning to stopover anyway , that may create an opportunity to travel on Tuesday or Wednesday when fares are lowest .
Yes , particularly in your circumstance where the airline can see it occurred because of a delayed inbound flight . In that condition the delay has encroached into the " minimum connect time " between LGA and EWR ( which is three hours ) . If you were involved in a delay between LGA and EWR I would also expect to be re-accommodated . However this is a bit more difficult to assert and prove . ( All of this relies on these flights being on a single ticket -- that is , bought at the same time from one seller . ) By the way , you can write " LGA-EWR " as " LGA / / EWR " to indicate that you are not flying between LGA and EWR but using alternative transportation .
A close proxy for " most religions " that is much more easily measured will be what is called a " Global City , " and Wikipedia happens to have <URL> . The criteria used in determining their ranking are : A variety of international financial services , notably in finance , insurance , real estate , banking , accountancy , and marketing Headquarters of several multinational corporations The existence of financial headquarters , a stock exchange and major financial institutions Domination of the trade and economy of a large surrounding area Major manufacturing centres with port and container facilities Considerable decision-making power on a daily basis and at a global level Centres of new ideas and innovation in business , economics , culture and politics Centres of media and communications for global networks Dominance of the national region with great international significance High percentage of residents employed in the services sector and information sector High-quality educational institutions , including renowned universities , international student attendance [ 8 ] and research facilities Multi-functional infrastructure offering some of the best legal , medical and entertainment facilities in the country Now clearly not all of these criteria will directly correlate to cultural ( and therefore religious ) diversity , but it 's a close proxy . And rounding out the top of their list , with Alpha + + rating are : London , UK New York City , USA The cities with Alpha + rating are : Hong Kong Paris , France Singapore Shanghai , China Tokyo , Japan Beijing , China Sydney , Australia Dubai , United Arab Emirates Now , you 'll want to apply your own filter to this list , as various religions have different legal statuses in some of these places . But this list should be a good place to start looking for culturally-diverse cities you might want to visit .
After some more research , and help from a friend here in Mexico , I have found that the following bus lines ( listed in alphabetical order ) offer free WiFi on some of their routes : <URL> provided me with Internet access between Austin , TX and Laredo , TX , but once we crossed into Mexico , the Nuevo Laredo to Monterrey stretch had no Internet access . <URL> provides free WiFi on their <URL> bus service . <URL> offers Internet on their <URL> routes , currently ( as of 2011-11-23 ) only available between Mexico City and Puebla . <URL> has Internet available on ( at least some of ) their TuriStar Lujo service . To view Internet-capable routes , click the ETN SERVICES tab , then On Board Internet . <URL> provides Internet on at least some of their routes . ( I had Internet access between Guadalajara and Morelia . ) <URL> provides Internet on their <URL> routes . Routes are available in southwestern Mexico . <URL> provides free WiFi on routes between select destinations : * Guadalajara - Mazatlán Mexico City - León Querétero - Mexico City Airport Morelia - Mexico City Mexico City - Aguascalientes <URL> offers Internet with their Ave Ejecutiva service . They offer service throughout much of Mexico , and the U.S. . <URL> provides Internet with their TAP Confort service . They provide service along most of the west coast states of Mexico . <URL> offers Internet with their Autonaves Gran Confort service . I also found a <URL> that reviews various aspects of some of the top bus lines , and includes comments on the quality of Internet service available on a few . * I can not find a list of their Internet-enabled routes , except on an animated ad on their front page . As of 2011-11-23 , routes between the listed cities were advertised to provide Internet access .
<URL> offers " Sparpreis " saver fares up to a few minutes before departure . However , these are the regular saver fares that only rise and almost never fall in price if you are getting nearer to departure , Up until last December <URL> offered such tickets however that promotors on has stopped . A month ago they once again had a few without long notice so it pays to check from time to time . Note that they currently sell the same tickets as Deutsche Bahn directly but with a surcharge . You might be able to find someone selling their non-online saver fare on websites such as EBay Kleinanzeigen or local Facebook groups . However , never fall for offers to book a connection you provide them for a low price on those sites as an online-ticket . These are too good to be true . Other than that there are no last minute deals for Deustche Bahn trains in Germany .
<URL> can be bought for $ 10 whenever you 're making a booking . This waives off the $ 2 booking fee that HostelWorld charges . ( It will not , however , waive off the 10 % downpayment . ) There are a couple of ways to get it for free though . <URL> . Every now and then , they send out Gold Card codes to new followers . I got one that was valid for six months ! Sign up for <URL> and make all your booking through it . Per night , per person you get 10 loyalty points on a booking . You also get 20 points for reviewing a hostel , and another 20 points for reviewing the city you stayed in . Now , the <URL> ( n.b. you need to be logged in ) says you need 1000 points to get a Gold Membership , but I get a goody bag instead whenever I hit 500 points which - surprise , surprise - also contains a Gold Card ! If you travel around a fair bit and make most of your bookings through HostelWorld , 500 points is an easy target to hit . Not related to the Gold Card , but every now and then HostelWorld runs contests on its homepage . Most of these contests are simple questionnaires for the purpose of signing you up for their newsletter . And in many of these contests , they offer no booking fees ( $ 2 charge + downpayment waived off ) . Keep a lookout for these too .
The airline can move passengers around , even if they have chosen seats ( you 'll always see the disclaimer when you choose a seat online ) - whereas the online booking system wo n't necessarily know if it can do this . Also , the airline may have more up to date knowledge of cancellations at that stage . So the problem is n't the airline making it look like there are few remaining seats , but that the system wo n't let you move other passengers in order to fit a group in at short notice . When I make late bookings with the family , I just plan for the fact that we may all have to sit in different areas on the plane . Sometimes it can be sorted , but certainly not every time . That 's the hazard of late booking .
If the duty-free liquid is in a sealed plastic bag , with the receipt clearly visible , and you do not open the bag , you should be fine : <URL> On board your connecting flight departing from the European Union , you may transport duty-free liquids purchased at your departure airport or on board , as long as they remain in a sealed plastic bag . You must keep the receipt and make sure it is clearly displayed in the sealed bag . The receipt must list the airport or airline company through which your purchase was made . Similar rules are in place in the United States : <URL> You may carry liquids more than 3.4 oz or 100 ml in your carry-on bag if : You are traveling internationally to the United States with a connecting flight . They are in transparent containers . You bought them at a duty-free shop where it is packed in a secure , tamper-evident bag .
Shops normally can not sell to tourists VAT/Duty free just because you have a plane ticket . The maximum a shop can do is sell you VAT-Free since that is a separate charge . Duties on Liquor and Cigarettes are not known to the personnel since they are applied at the manufacturer/wholeseller level so the shop can not sell you those without charging the duty . It 's basically already paid . VAT Refunds : Most countries allow you to get VAT back when you exit the country as a non-resident . Examples : In Singapore for example , you can buy things anywhere and get the VAT back on the airport provided you bring the receipt ( and ideally the item ) with you after the check-in . If you buy goods in Germany , you can take anything to the customs border to Switzerland and get the VAT back as long as you are not a German resident and have the item together with the receipt . Prepare to be asked for the VAT on the other side however when you come into Switzerland however . The difference can be worthwhile however for goods of higher value . <URL> on Tax-Free shopping in Germany for example . Duty Free : As mentioned above , Duty on Alcohol and cigarettes , coffee and other items are normally more difficult to get back - if at all possible - since they are not listed on the bill as a separate item and included in the base price . There are some duty/tax free shops in several European and Asian cities that cater for tourists specifically , outside of the airport . I would google specifically for the country that you are interested in . This <URL> might help also . It lists some places where you can shop duty/tax-free outside of airports as well . There are also whole regions where Duties and/or Taxes are exempted despite the fact that they are part of a country where normally higher taxes apply , as for example <URL> and <URL> are EU VAT free zones .
There is n't a free public shuttle bus service to/from the airport . ( There are , of course , <URL> . ) What I think your relative may have gotten it confused with is <URL> that are reserved for guests . I 'd recommend taking the <URL> though . It 's a lot cheaper ( $ 100 ) than getting a taxi and a lot faster than a bus given Hong Kong 's traffic , and if you 're going to the airport many airlines now offer check-in desks in the city itself , before you get to the airport . Once you have paid for your ticket and caught the HKIA express : Free shuttle bus service is available , taking passengers from Kowloon or Hong Kong stations to most major hotels and transport interchanges . Passengers can also enjoy free porter service at all Airport Express stations . So if you have a hotel near Kowloon or Hong Kong station , you should be able to get a free shuttle bus once you have taken the Airport Express .
A website of <URL> , marked on a map for your convenience ! :) ( the red markers have a low fee ; the green markers are free )
The exact rules will actually vary slightly depending on the city pairs . On the Malaysia Airlines website , on the Review Your Itinerary and Price page there 's a small link at the top for View Fare Rules . You can use that to check exactly what the rules would be for an given ticket you were thinking of buying As a general rule though , mhbasic is the least flexible , then mhsmart , then mhflex . Looking at a random mhbasic fare , I see things in the fare rules like : changes any time - charge gbp 100.00 for reissue/revalidation changes ticket reissue - rebooking / rerouting after ticketing - the above charge plus fare difference ticket is non-refundable in case of cancel/refund So for that one , you can make changes to it for a # 100 fee plus any extra fare costs at the time of the change , but you ca n't have any money back if you cancel . . Then looking at a random mhflex fare , I see things in the fare rules like : changes ticket reissue - rebooking / rerouting after ticketing permitted with no fees plus fare difference cancellations permitted for cancel/refund . admin fee applies . after departure - cancellations permitted for cancel/refund . note - deduct the applicable one way fare in same or higher rbd and cancellation fee - if any - and refund the balance if any . So , on that particular ticket , the mhflex ticket is refundable before departure for a small fee , and after departure less the cost of a one-way for what you 've already used ( which may mean there 's nothing to refund ) . There is no universal answer , it 'll depend on the city pairs , but mhflex is likely to be the one you need for full flexibility and near-refundable-ness . Check the fare rules for the full details / speak to a travel agent who can understand them and explain them to you !
It very much depends on the hostel . Some provide amazing kitchens with multiple ovens , fridges and every utensil you can imagine . Others require a cash deposit to use pots , cutlery etc. . Generally , no , you do n't need to bring if it 's a highly rated hostel on hostelbookers or hostelworld - read the reviews and if there 's a " great kitchen " comment , it 's a good sign . The lower end ones . . sometimes are lacking a bit in facilities . Some really rough ones have n't even had kitchens available for use . The reviews are your friend - even if you do n't book on the sites , it 's handy to look through for comments about what you want - be it wifi , a kitchen , or warnings about bedbugs .
This kind of information changes very frequently , depending on how the owners of EDI price FastTRACK access and what airlines are willing to pay or pass through to passengers . Even at Heathrow , a vastly busier airport , access may change in a matter of months . FlyerTalk is generally reliable for such information , and according to various threads as of June 2013 , FastTrack access is reportedly complimentary for British Airways Silver and Gold members , and those ticketed in Business UK , Club Europe/World , and First Class ( I believe BMI Diamond Club has been fully integrated into the BA program ) Sapphire and Emerald-level members of OneWorld airline programs , anecdotally -- EDI is not listed on <URL> EasyJet passengers with " Speedy Boarder " access or EasyJet + cards Flybe passengers with " Flybe Plus " cards Air France Gold and Platinum members flying on CityJet You can buy Fast Track access from the vending machine for # 5 , and it is also included with some parking packages . I could not confirm any information for the other major airlines there , which include Aer Lingus , Air Canada , Germanwings , KLM , Lufthansa , Norwegian , Ryanair , Scandinavian , Thomas Cook , Turkish , and United .
I remember reading a piece about these recently enough that I thought it was on here . Evidently not . Anyway , there are brands like Vapestick , which at least on their website state that it 's legal to use them onboard . I assume they 'd get sued to infinity and beyond if that was n't true , by now . <URL> : While it is n't illegal to smoke electronic cigarettes on planes , it could definitely raise questions or cause other passengers to be alarmed , so you will need to approach the situation carefully if you plan on getting away with it . However , further down the same page they also note that despite it not being illegal , many airlines do BAN it , so it 's best to check with your airline first . Electronic cigarettes on planes are banned by some airlines operating in the US . In the UK , you can still get away with it in most cases , but there 's no way of knowing for sure . The easiest way to smoke electronic cigarettes on planes without raising any questions is to smoke in the rest room . Personally I find something mildly suspect about how they tell you to ' get away with it ' and the like . If there 's a place in this modern world you really do n't want to be upsetting people , it 's onboard an airplane at 37k feet ...
Just to report - American Connection/Chautauqua Airlines does indeed allow personal electronic device usage from gate-to-gate . Thanks to everyone else for chiming in !
I am no definite expert on the topic but this customization of a flight , called <URL> , are usually marketed to travel agents as a profit generator . First let 's clarify the different actors . The airlines offer and operate flights , the GDS ( Global Distribution System ) companies distribute the flights to travel agents and the latter sell to the traveller ( you ) . The travel agents can be your local travel agent in his office , the online travel agent ( OTA ) like Expedia , Opodo or Kayak , or the airline itself through its website , phone service or offices . In all cases the travel agent <URL> to the customer . The travel agent probably pays to implement the service distribution ( to the GDS ) and receives a fee per transaction made . As meal selection is not generally a lucrative option - it is usually free of charge and I think religious or allergic people would react badly if they had to pay to get a specific meal - it is not worth offering for the travel agents . As @drat commented , the airlines have also little incentives ( and higher logistic costs ) to offer them . So it makes sense not to offer meal choice directly online . Note that some OTAs offer a free text field at the end of the booking without promising it will be read by anyone ( I have seen that on govoyages , for example ) . In the case of Emirates and Singapore Airlines , I have in mind that their image is based on open-mindedness , globalization and respect of the culture of the travellers . I insist on the fact that it is the image I have , you might not feel the same . But offering a choice of meal is a good marketing argument for a world-wide growing airline . On the opposite , Air Transat mostly targets Canadians visiting the Caribbean and transatlantic travellers , with less of a variety of travellers . Offering a large variety of meals would be more a burden than a marketing argument to them . And Air Transat offers ancillary services on their website like seat selection , so it is a deliberate choice not to offer meal selection . In the end , I suppose that the reasons are economical . It costs less to offer less choice and not to prepare too many meals . It depends on the travel agent you buy your tickets from , but there is no rule for who offers meal selection or does not . If it matters a lot , you can try to buy your ticket from another travel agent , it might work better .
No , you do n't technically get the same status on other airlines . And it ca n't be requested . How it works is that Star Alliance has 2 generic levels of status - Star Alliance Gold and Star Alliance Silver . Each particular airline status corresponds to one of these two statuses . For example , if you 're a Silver at Continental , you 're also a Star Alliance Silver member . If you 're Platinum or Gold at Continental , you 're a Star Alliance Gold member . You can check out the equivalent for your particular airline at this page : <URL> What this means is that , if you have your frequent flyer number entered on all your reservations , when you fly with other airlines in Star Alliance , they will see that you are Gold/Silver and give you benefits accordingly ( lounge access , priority boarding , fast track ) . You can also earn miles with your own airline whenever you fly a Star Alliance member airline . However , this is n't the same as being a member of the other airline 's FFP . For one thing , airlines often restrict reward availability to partner rewards and retain some of the inventory for their own members . E : I wanted to add that you can technically ask for status on other airlines , if you are planning to switch all your flying to them . You can contact them and ask for a " status match " , which they will give you if they think you 're a high value passenger , and usually you 'll have to fly a certain amount within a certain number of weeks to retain the status .
Towels are 50/50 possible , depening on country and hostel . More hostels will rent towels , sometimes at a nominal price . One hostel I worked in in Australia used to provide free towels but we discovered we were often paying overtime to our laundry staff because people would use many towels just because they were free ! We introduced a $ 1 fee per towel , which was often waived for family rooms or organized groups , and the waste went away . Some people were a bit grumpy at having to pay , but they were mostly people unfamiliar with the difference between hotels and hostels . Shampoo and bodywash are rare in most parts but seem to be universally provided in all hostels in Taiwan . They 're pretty common in Japan too . Often though hostels will keep bottles of toiletries left behind by travellers . Whether to use such free shower gel , shampoo , conditioner , etc is totally up to your personal squeamishness level of course . It 's annoyingly common for hostels to lack either or both of soap and something to dry your hands with in toilets by the way ! In hostels in poor countries , or that attract many " brats " , or where the staff care mostly about partying , there can be a tendency for the toilet paper to run out and not be quickly replaced . Sometimes cheap backpackers will steal rolls , sometimes brats find personal fulfilment in flushing whole rolls in the toilet ! Carry a roll of your own and check the stall before you sit and commit .
Yes . Food is served for free inside all coaches of Duronto Express . The food charges are already included in your ticket expense . With what I remember from my last booking in a Sleeper Duronto Coach , I was asked the choice of Vegetarian or Non Vegetarian at the time of booking . In case you missed it , you could just let your coach attendant know about your choice . Happy Journey !
end question
start question
Is there a ship of the line that I can sail on from Britain ?
It appears from @KateGregory 's research there are no longer any original ships of the line sailing in Britain or the world . I have found there is a 6th rate ship of the line ( frigate ) replica named the <URL> which is still sailing , used in the ITV series of Hornblower . Also of interest for Australians and New Zealanders , there is a replica of <URL> Sadly there are no original ships of the line still sailing . Probably the closest is the Grand Turk .
This website : <URL> has information on most of the strikes . With a little bit of google translate , you can search by tag for the trains or other types of transport . And as the commenter below pointed out , there is even an app . If you are worried about the trains in Paris , for example , search by " RATP " , " SNCF " , or " Paris " . For the cross-country train system , type " TGV " . In my experience , Uber is alive and well during a strike , even in the suburbs .
Give them your Canadian passport . From the US point of view , whichever one you travel on is the one you 'll be using and therefore , your citizenship . Example : I have New Zealand and South African , and travelled through the US on my New Zealand . Never need to mention the South African one - there 's never a question about it , apart from some forms asking your place of birth . You provide the passport to the airline for this trip - they 'll ask again . You could have a new NZ passport by now , or a different citizenship , so they 're always going to ask again .
Trip Advisor is one of the best sources of genuine feedback/reviews . On their website go to United States Forums and type " car rentals " in the search bar . You 'll get your hands on more information than you need with people sharing their experiences with various car rentals . A good idea will be to search reviews for a <URL> to get better search results .
There are many old ( ish ) monumental churches all over Western Europe , here are a few options ( based mostly on architecture as I do n't know anything about organs ) : Cologne is certainly well-known and well worth it and it 's also easy to reach by train ( high speed link to Frankfurt , the cathedral is in front of the main train station ) . Mainz , Worms ( technically not a cathedral anymore ) and Speyer are close to Frankfurt ( although the train wo n't get you there much faster than to Cologne ) . The cathedral in Speyer in particular is well-known and , like the one in Cologne , part of UNESCO world heritage . Architecturally , it 's a Romanesque building so an interesting contrast to the Cologne cathedral . The cathedral in Trier also has the same distinction but it 's a bit further away . Aachen is also further away ( 2.5 to 3 hours from Frankfurt by train ) but I personally found the Dom very interesting . It 's very old and quite unique compared to other European churches . There are many less famous old churches closer to Frankfurt . The cathedrals in Limburg and Fulda or the St.-Marienkirche in Marburg could for example be interesting ( as I said , I do n't know much about organs but the last one seems to have a notable one ) . There are many other interesting churches in Bavaria ( Ulm , Bamberg , Passau for the organ ... ) or Eastern Germany ( Naumburg , Magdeburg , Dreden ... ) but that might be a bit too far for you .
Probably yes , via Europe , it should be possible , but you might have to travel parts of the journey overland . It will take a long time . You might not depart exactly from Washington DC , but I will assume elsewhere along the US east coast should be fine as well -- the travel from DC to the starting point of the ocean journey will be much less than the time for the rest of the journey , anyway . Also , I 'm not sure if you can disembark on a freighter in India , but perhaps you can disembark a couple of days ' train journey away ( still checking ) . You 're looking for <URL> . You might need to combine different freighters . They wo n't take a direct way , but will make many stops along the way that are not directly useful for you . For example : <URL> . <URL> in 17 days , or <URL> in 12 days , or <URL> in 11 days . <URL> . This may be more difficult ; the linked page states Embarke or disembarke in India or Pakistan is not possible anymore , but perhaps there are others travelling there . <URL> lists a freighter travelling by Antwerp , Bremerhafen and Rotterdam to Pakistan and India , six times per year . They do n't state any limits on disembarking , but contact them to be sure . It does n't list the exact travel time , but I would guess 3 -- 4 weeks to get from Europe to India ( the round trip time Europe -- India -- Europe is listed as 58 days ) .
Yes , this is legitimate . <URL> was <URL> to operate and maintain toll roads in Orange County . When you entered one of the roads , you would have passed under an electronic sensor which reads FasTrak transponders from those who have them , and takes license plate pictures in order to bill those who do not . You also passed under such a sensor when you departed the toll road , and a sign which advised you to <URL> to <URL> . If you plan to drive that way again , you may wish to obtain a FasTrak ( which is good for most California toll roads and bridges ) , or sign up for an ExpressAccount , which bills tolls to your credit card each day you drive , or on a prepaid basis , but only works for The Toll Roads . They 're currently offering a <URL> promotion for signing up , which would cover your recent trip . Given where you live , though , you may find <URL> ( a FasTrak compatible system ) more advantageous ...
Wikipedia has a pretty good list of budget airlines sorted per country : <URL> This might be very helpful to decide which airline to choose . The flight search website <URL> might also help . It specifically searches airfares at low-cost carriers .
Without knowing which country you are applying for a visa for it 's impossible to answer this with certainty , however ... I suspect your chances of having your application rejected are extremely high . Ignoring the fact that you have ignored the explicit instructions for the application , photos ( even those printed at home ) are generally printed onto special " photo " paper , not standard paper . Any photo printed on standard paper is likely below the standards that are set for the photograph . For example , the <URL> state that the photo must be " Good quality , colour gloss prints , less than six months old " , whilst <URL> state it must be " Printed on photo quality paper " thus standard paper will not suffice for either of those two . Many countries do allow uploading a photo during the ( online ) application process . In this case they will normally include a copy of the photo on the application form , however this is intended more as a confirmation that the photo has been supplied rather than to be used in it 's own right . As they have the original ( uploaded ) photo , no physical photo is normally required in these cases .
As far as I can tell , there seems to be no IATA or ICAO rule regarding the maximum number of codeshares a flight may be marketed under . I imagine there must be a technological limitation at some point , but having seven or eight codeshares is not terribly uncommon , and flights with a dozen or more have been reported in discussions <URL> and <URL> , for example . There is probably a way for someone with GDS access to deduce the most-codeshared current flight . Flight numbers and codeshares change frequently , so that would be the only definitive way , and only for a period of weeks at best . But the FT thread suggest SYD/MEL-AUH ; today 's schedule on FlightStats.com indeed turns up two Etihad flights with 14 and 12 codeshares respectively , more than any other city pair I tried : Etihad EY 455 SYD-AUH = A3 1915 , AB 4071 , AF 3821 , AZ 3925 , B2 355 , EI 8055 , HM 5105 , JU 8583 , KL 3939 , KM 2122 , ME 6637 , NZ 4255 , S7 4606 , VA 7093 Etihad EY 461 MEL-AUH = AF 3823 , A3 1911 , AB 4055 , AZ 3923 , B2 361 , HM 5101 , JU 8581 , KM 2158 , NZ 4261 , KL 3941 , ME 6639 , VA 7095 The best I could do in the domestic US market was a 10-codeshare ORD-ATL Republic flight : Republic YX 4289 ORD-ATL = AA 4289 , AB 4707 , BA 8420 , EY 3114 , GF 6792 , IB 7186 , MH 9592 , QF 4866 , RJ 7242 , US 8523
Yes , assuming they issue you the Known Traveler Number ( KTN ) before you fly , you can add it to your reservation . As long as it 's at least 72 hours ( 3 days ) before the time of your flight , you can add the KTN to your reservation via Delta 's website . After that , you 'll need to call or visit an agent at the check-in desk . To do it on Delta 's website , go to the " Trip Details " page for your reservation ( accessible through " My Trips " from the Delta.com homepage ) and scroll down to the " SECURE FLIGHT PASSENGER &amp; CONTACT INFORMATION " section . If it 's not already expanded , click the " Open " button on this section to load it . <URL> Secure Flight Data Section of Delta.com Trip Details Page Here , you can enter your KTN in the " Known Traveler Number " field and click " Save " to add it to your reservation . And , of course , make sure that your gender and Date of Birth is correct , too . Note that upon subsequent visits to this page , the information for the passenger whose Delta account is currently logged in will be displayed , but the fields will appear blank for other passengers in the same reservation , even if the secure flight data has already been saved for those passengers . You can still enter in new information for other passengers , but the existing data for them will not be displayed for privacy reasons .
Rental prices are not designed for periods of more than a few days . It might be possible to negotiate a long-term price at a flexible rental business . It 's definitely possible to get a decent used bike for 50-100 EUR . There 's a risk that it could be a stolen one , but almost none of running into problems , even if it is . I 'm pretty sure that shipping a bike from Germany to Egypt and back will cost more than 100 EUR .
<URL> allows you to specify almost any conveivable trip combination . You can specify the cities or airports to fly through , the layover times , the airline alliance or airlines and even the aircraft that you 're willing to fly . Example : If you wish to fly from London to San Francisco via New York with a stopover in New York of more than 48 hours on the outbound , only on aircraft operated by American Airlines , you would use LON : :O : AA * / minconnect 2880 to SFO : :O : AA * If you 'd like to further specify your requirements , I 'm sure we could supply you with the options you would need to use .
There 's really two different issues here - that of pre-selecting seats , and that of how check-in works with multi-airline itineraries . As far as pre-selecting seats , every airline has different policies . Specifically for SAS , they allow you to pre-select seats only if you has elite status with their frequent flyer program ( Eurobonus Gold ) , or on flights to/from the US regardless of status . Some other airlines will allow it at time of booking , some only allow it if you pay an extra fee , etc. . The specific airlines website should give you the details there . The second issue is checking in with a single connecting itinerary with multiple airlines . Again the exact rules will vary here depending on the airlines involved , but in general you need to check-in with the airline that is flying the first leg of your journey - in this case , SAS . Depending on the agreements between the airlines they may be able to also check you in for any additional flights with other airlines , or they may not be able to - in which case you would normally do so once you arrive at the transfer airport . In these cases seat selection again depends on the specific carriers . eg , if you were flying Emirates followed by SAS then within 22 hours of the flight you would be able to go to the SAS website , select " check-in " , and whilst it will not actually allow you to checkin ( as the first leg is with EK ) it WILL allow you to select seats ! In short , there is no simple or single answer to what you 're asking . Most airlines will publicize their rules for pre-selecting seats on their website - but be sure to read the full conditions to make sure that they apply to you , without needing status or paying any additional fees . Specifically for Cathay Pacific , they DO allow you to select seats in advance , regardless of status . If the website/travel agent you are booking on/with does n't give you the option , you can go to their website , enter your surname and booking number , and select your seats free of charge . British Airways on the other hand only allows you to select seats at the time of check-in ( up to 24 hours before your flight ) .
<URL> leaves from Boston and makes a couple of stops in Iceland , one of which is at Heimaey where they famously <URL> . It also stops in Greenland and Scotland . <URL> also visits Iceland . Both of those cruises only let you off the boat to explore for 8 hours at a time ( there are no overnight on-land stays ) , which I have to say means you will not really see much of Iceland . An alternative is to fly direct to Iceland from Boston , Minneapolis/St . Paul , New York JFK , Orlando Sanford , Seattle or Washington D.C with <URL>
" If you checked your bag through , and did not pick it up in Amsterdam , then you did not go through customs with it already when you enter the UK . Only your hand luggage will have been cleared through customs if you leave the Airport in Amsterdam . Thus , it makes sense to use the " nothing to declare " lane in the UK , as you are in a situation where you could have something to declare . <URL> - Question 5 covers this case and makes it explicit that the customs check will be at the final destination in the EU , except that it does not talk about leaving the Airport or the transfer area . As far as the gates are concerned , there is nothing in the rules , and using the definition of " intra-EU flight " from the page , the green gates would actually be fine to use . Using them with a non-green luggage tag will probably raise suspicion , though .
You will need to speak with the Embassy or Consulate handling your visa application , as technically the visa is only 60 days . The 30 day extension is granted afterwards and is at the discretion of the Immigration Officer you speak with in Thailand . While the extension is usually easy to get , it is not guaranteed . Also your visa would allow you only 60 days in country and if the air ticket says 90 days , the airline is not supposed to allow you to board the flight . While you may hear from folks that say they got around these rules , they are in effect and could be enforced without leeway .
Your best bet is to sign up to a crew-finding website like <URL> . A friend who cycled from London to New Zealand did this for the ocean parts - hung out in port and used the site . What was observed is that there are different levels of opportunities . Some berths require that you have licenses or sailing experience , or a particular skill ( eg cooking ) , while others will take anyone . The alternative , if you have the time ( like she did ) is to hang out by the docks and ask people - even if they are n't taking anyone , they may have heard of someone who is . Often it 's just spur of the moment opportunity .
There is nothing that prohibits you from carrying a microscope onboard an airplane . One thing to mention is the tools that comes with it , if I am not mistaken microscopes comes with a set of tools ( I have seen one made for amateurs ) , it comes with some sort of sharp tools and/or some kind of liquids in small bottles ( I guess dye or something like that ) . These would be a problem and you need to check them in , but the microscope itself is fine . For more details about items hand luggage items in EU , visit <URL> .
Yes , it 's open ! The escalator between the terminal and the station is still not ready ( latest estimate " spring 2016 " ) , but <URL> that connect directly from the walkway between T1/T2 to the station .
end question
start question
Is it safe to travel in Japan considering the nuclear situation ?
An american software engineer living in Japan gives a <URL> and why you should n't be afraid to travel there after the nuclear accident . Essentially , the summary is that Japan is very large . It 's unlikely that your travel plans as a tourist will be anywhere near the accident . Source : <URL>
My understanding is that chlorine , in the concentrations found in drinking water , does not pose an acute health danger . There may be health risks associated with long-term exposure , and this is a more controversial topic , where the literature and expert opinions are mixed . Most main-stream information seems to suggest it 's safe , but the skeptics claim a corporate bias , etc. . Some of the long-term exposure risks reported are <URL> . Note that much of claimed risk is associated with long , hot showers , not drinking it . If you 're only visiting for a while , and do n't have any known Chlorine sensitivities , you 'll probably be just fine . If the taste bothers you , or you 're especially concerned about long-term health affects , drink bottled water . Some related SE posts : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Crossing into the West Bank itself is simply a matter of continuing on whatever road you were already on and passing a check point , ( though usually they are only checking anyone going the other way ) and it 's perfectly doable with an Israeli taxi , or any one else willing to take you there for that matter . Furthermore , it 's just as doable to procede from there into an Israeli settlement ; it 's just like driving into any other town . However , I would recommend finding out the best way to get there in advance from the person who lives there , as many roads can be much more safe than others . It is also perfectly possible to return to the fully recognized part of Israel , this time through an actual checkpoint , again in any Israeli vehicle . Whether you will have to pre - arrange depends on where you are ; your host will likely know local taxi options . However , for a journey to Tel Aviv it may be a good idea to pre-book regardless . In terms of general safety , both day and night it depends where exactly you are . But in all cases most likely people living there will say it 's safe enough for them to travel . At the same time there are other places that are probably statistically safer to be , so it really is up to your comfort level . This is another question that would be best for your host who is likely familiar with the exact roads you will be on . ( Also , obviously a taxi from Tel Aviv will cost quite a bit ) Getting to Palestinian towns from the west bank will be very different , as Israeli taxis will not go there , and there may be more security checks on the way in and/or out of the towns/cities . You will have to take an Israeli car into the west bank as above and then transfer somewhere to Palestinian transportation .
Cairo airport , along with every site in Egypt remotely connected to tourism , has ridiculous amounts of security , so you are in absolutely no physical danger . If you wait until morning , all that 's going to happen is that you 'll be stuck in a traffic jam on your way to the city ! What 's more , since the revolution , Cairo 's rather notorious unmetered taxis are no longer allowed at the airport . If you ignore touts , pick a cab off the rank and insist on the meter , you should be perfectly fine . ( Well , aside from the abysmal standards of Egyptian driving , but that 's another story . I still remember driving to the airport one night past the wreck of a BMW that had literally wrapped itself around a lamppost . ) All that said , if somebody is arranging a transfer for you , it 's presumably not going to be an ordinary taxi , but somebody known to whoever is sending them . So get them to stand outside Customs holding a placard with your name on it , and get their phone number as a backup in case you ca n't find them . ( Mild disclaimer : I have n't been back to Cairo since they opened the new terminal , but it was n't a particularly hard airport to deal with even before . )
Virtually all municipal water systems in the United States provide clean and safe drinking water . Water supplies are regulated by the government and must be tested regularly . Water safety problems are generally well publicized , often national news if they are significant , and emergency notices are issued if a rare temporary situation , such as a water main break , results in unsafe water . Note that the situation may be different for well water in remote areas , but if you 're in such a place , chances are good you 're talking to the owner of the well , who can advise you . Specifically at Yale , you might see <URL> from the Yale Daily News about New Haven tap water . You may read the most recent <URL> from the South Central Connecticut Regional Water Authority for up-to-date information . The local water meets all regulatory standards . Some old buildings may have old pipes that can impart an off taste or even leach <URL> into the water . While it may be worth testing for lead someplace where small children will be living for years , I would n't be concerned about an adult taking a five week course . You should also <URL> . If you do n't like the taste of your water , you could consider investing in a <URL> , which you can keep in a refrigerator to ensure you have a supply of cold drinking water . I ca n't say whether you 'll like that taste better , but it should be at least a bit different after passing through the filter . Bottled water is another choice , but note that most bottled water is simply US tap water , and that the legal requirements for bottled water are actually <URL> than the ones for tap water . You can also fill up a water bottle at drinking fountains or <URL> on campus .
I 'd suggest you start with reading the <URL> page on <URL> . That 'll tell you about the main routes , the main trains , general timings and prices etc. . As a general rule , most big places on the east and west coast can be visited , but only certain ones inland ( in other cases the appropriate lines have closed ) . For long distances , the trains are normally slower than an equivalent european one , and do n't run as frequently . There are a few areas with the kinds of frequency and speed you get in Europe , but they tend to be along the east coast ( such as Boston - New York - DC ) For information and geographical accuracy , you probably want the <URL> , but the official Amtrak one will give you an idea of roughly where you can travel :
A Semi-double bed is around 120 to 140cm ( 47 to 55in ) , depending on the hotel . As for it being suitable for two people , that depends on how close you are : I shared a semi-double bed at Mystays Asakusa-Bashi with a friend . If it had n't been my long time friend , I would have been very uncomfortable as you WILL end up touching/brushing the other person while sleeping , even if you do n't move much . Here 's an image of such a bed in Asakusa-Bashi . The size here is 120cm . <URL> If it 's your significant other , you should be fine .
I think your best bet is to just bring cash in Reals and buy a " money card " in Thailand . You would either have to convert the currency to Baht first , or you might be able to just buy the card from the place you exchange ( depending on where you exchange , if at a bank , they likely would have some kind of card you could get ) . You may also want to explore credit card options . Capital One has the Venture cards which charge no fees for international usage , you just use the card like normal and it automatically converts the transaction by itself , and you do n't pay anything extra other than the cost of the thing you bought . I 'm not sure if this specific card is available to Brazilians , but if you look around you can probably find something similar . I have used this on a few trips to Europe and avoided even the exchange fees because I did n't even have to change cash , I just bought something for 10 Euros and it charged my card $ 13.30 ( current exchange rate ) .
I you see the trend of tourist coming to Nepal by land in 2013 . It shows more than 200000 tourist come from land and obviously from India . There are different route for coming to the border of Nepal , Some people also take train also . There are different entering route from Delhi , some famous are Bhairahawa , Birgunj , Mahendranagar . But connecting point is Narayangarh . Rode upto Narayangarh is better safe and construction is also going for widen up . But rode from Narayangarh-Muglin-Kathmandu looks danger as Tom said above specially in Rainy season .
I 'm assuming you 're talking about The Kyushu region ( including okinawa and the islands ) I recently returned from ishigaki ( an island in the Kyushu region ) . We did snorkelling and scuba out there . Most dive schools will not take Non Japanese newbies . As we do n't speak japanese we found an excellent english speaking dive school . If you 're looking to go Snorkelling through a dive school i 'd reccomend Dive school Umicoza . A Day 's Snorkelling will cost 8,400 yen . This includes : hotel pickup equipement rental boat cover Experienced Guides lunch photos of your dive Drop off at your Hotel I went in september and they had 2 english speaking guides ( one also spoke chinese , and french ) . We did Scuba and snorkelling with them and the marine life was spectacular on both . The guides were awesome and it was just an amazing day . Their website is here <URL> If you 'd just like to go to the dive site without going through a dive school ( i really do n't recommend this ) then here 's a link to it on google maps . <URL> The sea temperature will be fine in april as ishigaki 's sea temperature ranges from 21 ° C in winter to 29 ° C in summer Let me know if you have any more questions .
Note that October is probably not the best season to to this trip due to vicissitudes of weather . In the alpine regions some roads are closed at that time . Indeed there are roads only accessible during spring and summer . They are closed in October or November and are opened again in April or May . If you want to find you which roads are closed , you can have a look at the <URL> . There you will see some transparent rectangles with blue characters saying 11-4 , 10-4 , etc , as shown below . These are the periods where the roads are closed ( November to April , October to April , etc ) . I say this because it was not really clear what the " Great Dolomites Road " refers to . After googling , it seems that it only contains roads which are accessible all year long . In Winter , the roads in alpine region are often in a better condition than roads in flatter regions . In the mountains the operation centers are well equipped and experienced in clearing roads . This does not mean that it is easy going . You can always get into a snow shower . That can be more silly if you have no experience or if you feel unsafe . So have a look at the weather forecast before starting . As an alternative , you may consider public transport . I think it is possible to travel by bus along the track you are referring to . But that 's another topic .
I actually remember on Netflix watching an episode of a TV show where these adventists actually spent 48 hours in Chernobyl . Turns out the town is so isolated that the people and camera crew actually had to transfer from a passenger train in the Ukrane and finish the rest of the commute in a freight train car for 48 hours from the main transit hub . From there , they actually interviewed some people who actually were living fairly normally despite the geiger meter being about 8x the safe radiation level , and they were saying how the reason they still lived there was because of family tradition . Surprisingly the people never wore hazmat suits but still survived , although they were taking a ton of iodine and did get sick after awhile , but in the show they did go near the powerplant ( still covered with cement blocks ) and the radiation was ~ 32x higher than the safe limit -- even at 2-3 miles from the plant . I wish I had the name of the show in my head , but I 'm pretty sure the channel was Sy-Fi or something like that -- and overall it was a pretty interesting episode , especially how they showed the residents still living there actually have genetic changes to adapt to the higher radiation ( although the area near the plant is literally a dead zone )
In my experience of travelling to the USA on an ESTA Visa from Europe you are asked you to write the address that you will be staying your first night in the USA , be it a hotel , friends house or family residence on the customs and border protection form . The immigration officer asks to see this form and stamps it . You are then let into the country and hand this form to an official before you exit the baggage hall . How much checking of that address they do , or even if it is recorded , I do not know . I get this address wrong most of the time anyway and I have never had any trouble . I imagine if this is left blank and you are asked and reply you do not know where you are staying then alarm bells will begin to ring for for the immigration officer . Even if you are travelling around America by rental car it would probably be best to have a pre-booked hotel for one night after a long haul flight anyway . Safety first !
I may be headed that way myself as part of a relief mission for the <URL> . I would recommend the <URL> ... <URL> It is not an ' official ' source and the feed is intermixed with comments that some may find indecorous ( hence my redaction ) . But there is enough ' live ' information to make it worthwhile . The feed includes ' live ' updates from the BBC and other credible sources . You may also find that the <URL> contains very specific information about what to expect on a moment-by-moment basis ... <URL>
They are not going to be ' sucked in ' . Pressure increase in the cabin ( causing inward pressure ) happens fairly gradually as the plane descends . Even in an uncontrolled dive , it will take awhile for a plane to go from cruising altitude ( 30.000 feet or so ) to 8.000 feet at which point the outside and inside pressure is about equal . The only possible rapid change in cabin pressure ( that you will hopefully never experience ) is a drop in pressure ( <URL> ) . This will cause the earbuds to be expelled from your ears ( assuming the pressure differential is large enough to overcome the friction between the earbuds and your ear canal ) because the outside pressure will now be lower than within your ear canal and thus the inside pressure will seek to normalize by expanding . So you have nothing to worry about .
Depends on what you call " going Robinson Crusoe " . If it is about spending time alone on an uninhabited island , I guess the answer is " Sure " . I have met various people who did so , when they were sailing through the Caribbean . The options to do so is not limited to the Bahamas alone . I was told that it is relatively cheap to buy a yacht in that area from European sailors who after crossing the atlantic do n't feel the urge to experience yet again the gulf of Biscay . Those boats are typically quite worn out , which would add a bit to the Robinson Crusoe experience . So if it is only about being alone on a deserted island , just buy one of these boats and sail away . If " going Robinson Crusoe " , however means being lost for years , the fact that I have met various people who did spent time alone on an uninhabited island makes it impossible . Spending time on an island without being noticed by civilization for an extended period of time , is simply impossible given the number of people sailing the Caribbean . these days . PS . Robinson crusoe was stranded : " Who lived Eight and Twenty Years , all alone in an un-inhabited Island on the Coast of America , near the Mouth of the Great River of Oroonoque " . The island is situated in front of the Guyana 's . There are quite some small islands over there , of which <URL> . Even devil 's island is not visible on <URL> . I have the impression that your chances on getting lost unnoticed in that area is higher then in the Bahamas . " Devil 's island is ofcourse not a good choice , but there are more of these small islands .
I guess it depends on what you want to do , and how long you 're staying . Traveling around the country might be a little more difficult , but if you 're just staying in the Reykjavik area you should be fine . I just got back from a short trip to Reykjavik , and had a great time . As another commenter said , more darkness means more time for the Northern Lights . Also more time for drinking and partying , if that 's your thing - Reykjavik has lively , non-stop night-life during the weekends . There is also good food , and lots of public heated swimming pools to explore ( my blog entry about my visit to some of those pools should be up in the next day or two ) . Have fun !
There is no problem driving in Morocco if you can not understand Arabic . I think the impression you get from your Google query is not quite correct . The road signs are bilingual Arabic/French , sometimes even with pictograms : <URL> In cities the signage can sometimes be a bit meager . Combined with the Moroccan style of drive , this makes crossing a city a bit more stressful . For overland travel , the signage is fine . Nevertheless it is a good idea to have a road map .
I spent 47 days in Guatemala in 2009 as a backpacker and I did not have any problems even while taking local buses in Guatemala City and walking around there quite a bit . However I did hear from tourists who were victims of petty crime and you also see ' security guards ' with machine guns all over the place . Usually next to banks and more expensive shops . I also heard that richer local families still only go out with security guards . It 's all a bit different if you are going with your family , especially with young kids . It is hard for me as an experienced single traveler to say how a family would be treated there . Just going to the top tourist attractions does not help , on the contrary , place like Antigua have more petty crime than other similar sized towns just because there are so many tourists there . Many local tourist offices just sell tours that are then organized by other agencies . I 've heard some horror stories from people who did book tours . So my advice would be to find other tourists who just came back from the tour you are planning to do and then ask them about their experience . So the question remains : ' Would I go with my kids ? ' Maybe not with a six month old , wait five years . Your kids will enjoy it more and the security situation is likely to be better too .
Maybe you are a bit too paranoid . I go to Paris quite regularly and I usually stay in hotels beyond the boulevard périphérique , for exactly the same reason that you mention . Personally , I never had any problem , nor did I feel particularly unsafe . However , when I go by car , I never park it in the street . I leave it in a closed or guarded car park . The hotel I am usually staying at is quite close to 2 metro stations . The way to the metro stations is safe , even after dusk . These areas can be a bit gloomy and It is true that some areas beyond the boulevard périphérique can be dangerous . Nevertheless the places where the hotels are located are okay . Note that in Paris " intra muros " there are gloomy and dangerous areas as well ... Wherever you stay and you go , do not forget that Paris is a large city , with everything this implies . But , when you stick to the usual cautions , you should have a safe stay , intra and extra muros .
end question
start question
Do I need to obtain a visa prior to visiting Malawi as a US Citizen ?
Okay , while all the answers here were awesome , I got mixed responses . So I ended up contacting the US Consulate in Lilongwe , Malawi . Here was their response : Entry visas for U.S. travelers are available upon arrival in Malawi at both of the international airports , Lilongwe and Blantyre , as well as at border crossings . You will have to complete a one-page visa application form and pay the USD $ 75 ( U.S. dollars only ) but it 's fairly routine at this point . I 'm copying our official announcement below for your reference . <URL>
Yes , a visa is required for EU citizens . Fortunately , getting one is free and ( usually ) pretty quick . The easiest way is to <URL> . See " Eligible passport holders " on that page to check if you are eligible for eVisitor . The eVisitor allows visitors to travel to Australia for short term business or tourism purposes for up to three months . eVisitor applications are free and are available to passport holders from the European Union and a number of other European countries . More information on Australian visas can be found at <URL>
Coming from India , you ca n't stay in Schengen as a tourist without a visa . That means you wo n't be allowed to stay after the 23rd . <URL> To those who tell you that nothing will happen if you over stay , I can tell you about my personal experience the first time I left Schengen : I overstayed because I thought I could stay 3 months instead of 90 days , and in those 3 months there were 91 days . I left on the day 91 and the border control noticed it immediately . They took me to a room for about 4 hours and made me endless questions : where have I been , what did I do , they asked me to prove all my stays and travels with tickets and receipts ( which fortunately I had with me at that time ) , they made me sign a paper telling me that a process would start against me through my embassy for overstaying and that I might denied the access to Schengen in the future . Finally , obviously , I lost the flight I was supposed to take . So I had to pay for a new flight right there in order to leave Schengen . You can bet that with this sort of behaviour they make really sure that you will not over stay again .
As noted in a comment , the agreement mentioned in that news article has not yet gone into effect . In fact there are several outstanding changes to Turkish visas which are pending but not yet active . There will be changes to quite a few countries ' visas that go into effect on February 1st of 2012 . That would be the earliest date I would expect the Nigerian agreement to be effective , but I do n't know that it 's scheduled for then and kind of doubt it will . In short , at the moment he still needs a visa . No confirmation is available as to when the agreement with Nigeria will take effect .
If you travel from USA to Brazil , you will need both passports - the US one to leave the USA ( <URL> ) and the Colombian one to enter Brazil . Certainly you will have to show the airline your Colombian passport to proof that you 're allowed to enter Brazil . The only thing you must keep in mind about dual citizenship is that , if you go to Brazil on your Colombian passport , in case of an emergency , the US Embassy may not give you diplomatic protection since you are a Colombian citizen in Brazil . From <URL> : In addition , their dual nationality may hamper efforts to provide U.S. diplomatic and consular protection to them when they are abroad , especially when they are in the country of their second nationality .
You do not need to pass through emigration when leaving the US . Unlike in most countries , US airports do not have dedicated international areas . The airline staff will check your passport and collect any documents you are required to hand in when you leave the country . Thus , this will not affect your connection in MSP . If the itinerary is being offered as a single ticket , the airline clearly believes that most passengers will be able to make that connection . This seems quite feasible if both flights are from the same terminal at MSP ( very probable if it is the same airline ) . You 'll probably be checked into both flights at LAX and only have to get between gates at MSP . This can be accomplished <URL> within the same terminal ( less if you are really in a hurry ! ) . If you need to <URL> ( <URL> ) , this becomes much trickier . You 'll need to take a train ( runs every 10 minutes ) and than you will need to go through security again at the other end . I suspect that you will not need to change terminals . Note however , that if there is any delay in the inbound flight , even if you are able to race to the departure gate , the odds of your checked-in luggage making the transfer is not good . Also , keep in mind that any non-trivial delay will cause you to miss your connection . They will try rerouting you if you miss your connection because of a delay in the first flight . However , there is no way of knowing how long or convoluted that rerouting will be . You may easily lose a whole day . Consider how important not being delayed is to you . If it is critical , this may not be a chance you 're willing to take .
The Rainbow Bridge is a land border crossing between Canada and the US . There are no facilities to cross it without departing one country and entering the other , so as a result you will need whatever legal status is required to enter the other country - which obviously depends on your citizenship . If you are a Canadian or US citizen then you do not normally need a Visa , but you will require a passport or a passport card . There are exceptions to this if you have a criminal record , etc , but these are the same for any Canadian citizen entering the US or vice versa . If you are a member of a Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) for entering the US then you do not normally need a visa ( again , with the usual exceptions around criminal records , etc ) . As you are entering by land you do not need an approved ETSA as you would if entering by air , however you will need to fill in an I94W form . If you are from a country that requires a visa to enter the US , then you will require a visa . Technically if you do not have a visa then the US would most likely " deport " you to the country you arrived from ( ie , back over the bridge to Canada ) - do not think of this as an easy way to get around the requirement if you are just expecting to see the bridge . Doing this will give you a permanent mark against your US immigration record , and make it harder to enter the US in the future ! The main thing you need to keep in mind is that you will be departing from and then re-entering Canada , and thus if you require a visa for entering Canada you should make sure that it will allow you to re-enter . eg , if you are on a single entry visa for Canada , you will technically not be allowed re-enter after visiting the USA .
In the end I went to the building outside , and the memorial garden , which was really nice . But from there , the Pentagon is like a giant box - you ca n't see its shape very well . No ID was required , you just walk around . Never managed to get inside , there 's massive security for even walking up to it , and they never replied to me . However , for the best view , go up to Arlington Cemetery ; you get a great view of the Pentagon 's shape from there :)
Going with a cruise line is an exception to the rule that you need a visa . Basically , Russia uses the visa requirement to control the inflow of visitors . But if you are with a cruise line that has ALREADY submitted to Russian controls , you are effectively " controlled . " The cruise line will only organize tours/excursions approved by the Russian government , using guides licensed by it . That , and not the " international accommodation " , is the reason for the waiver . When leaving the ship , you will need to show your passport and have it stamped at the custom house . They will then give you a pass that is valid only for that ONE excursion . Needless to say , you have to come back with the rest of the group , and not go out on your own . If you lose your pass , there is a fine . I believe it 's $ 50 . If you stay on board the ship the whole time , none of this applies . Then the " international accommodation " part holds . But if you go on your own ( not a ship sponsored tour ) , then you need a visa .
Good news - as a Canadian citizen , you 're a member of one of the few groups that do n't need visas for the US . From the <URL> : Note : ESTA is not required for citizens of Canada . On 12 January 2009 , the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) introduced ESTA , the Electronic System for Travel Authorization . This online system is part of the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) , and all nationals or citizens of VWP countries -- excluding Canada -- who plan to travel to the United States for 90 days or less for temporary business or pleasure under the VWP need to receive an electronic travel authorization prior to boarding a U.S.-bound airplane or cruise ship . So you 'll be fine travelling through the US on the way to Germany ! Enjoy your trip .
Actually there 's a third , rarer option . But it 's the option I 'm on currently . If your trip is going to be longer than 30 days , you ca n't use a tourist visa - as that 's the maximum length , and you ca n't extend it . You can , however , apply for a business visa and are perfectly entitled to say it 's for tourism . I got a letter of support from my company ( despite it saying I 'm just going as a tourist ) and worked with visatorussia.com to make sure I had all the details , and voila , a 3 month double-entry Russian Business Visa ! It did cause the border guy a bit of confusion , but a quick phone call and he was quite happy with it . Again , you need a letter of invite ( visatorussia can help with that ) , and you specify a rough itinerary ( I just said the 5 major cities I hope to visit ) but these do not go on your visa , nor are you required to stick to it . However , as mentioned - if you 're in any place for more than a few days you are required to register with your hotel or place of abode . Again , visatorussia will help explain all of that . Good luck !
Have a look at <URL> . You apply for visa online , and then physically get it by reporting to a consular service within 3 days of entering the country ( you get an entry permit sent to your email which you use to actually enter ) . I would not advise trying to obtain visa/entry at the border , unless you are exempt from visa by Abkhazia . Also take note of the following important info : Citizens of the following countries must have double entry or multiple Russian visas to come to Abkhazia ( it is a mandatory requirement , since the Russian Embassy in Abkhazia will not issue transit visas to the citizens of these countries ) : Algeria Angola Afghanistan Bangladesh Vietnam India Iraq Iran PRC DPRK ( North Korea ) Nepal Nigeria Pakistan Rwanda Syria Somalia Chad Sri Lanka Ethiopia See more at : <URL> and : NOTE ! When visiting Abkhazia through the territory of the Russian Federation you must receive at least a double entry Russian visa ( the first time you enter Russia on the way to Abkhazia and the second time you visit Russia on your way from Abkhazia back to your home country ) . Foreign citizens are required to have a double entry or multiple visa of the Russian Federation . See more at : <URL>
Can you go to the US as a tourist - yes , Will the past cause any problems - likely . Your early refused entry will be in the system and likely the CBP agent will see it on their screen when you are processed . You can expect a longer round of questions and probably secondary questioning ( ie away from the initial counter ) . But assuming you did n't make a scene at your earlier refusal and the reason was as innocent as paperwork not being in place , then they may well let you visit . But really it is up to the agent processing you , no guarantees .
<URL> All non-exempt citizens must obtain a visa prior to travelling to South Korea . In your case <URL> : <URL> <URL>
As you say , Monaco is part of Schengen Area , which means there are no internal border controls between Monaco and its only neighbour ( France ) . So you certainly do not need a visa . No one 's even going to look at your passport . Quoting <URL> : Monaco has an open border with France . Schengen laws are administered as if it were a part of France [ ... ] I 'm not sure about EHIC . But you have some sort of travel insurance from your home country , do n't you ? If you do , it very likely is valid in Monaco too . If you do n't ( and you travel ) , consider getting one . Edit : UK 's Foreign &amp; Commonwealth Office has a <URL> that directly answers that part of your question ( emphasis mine ) : Monaco is not a Member of the European Union and therefore EU reciprocal medical arrangements do not apply . The European Health Insurance Card ( EHIC ) does not provide health cover in Monaco . It is essential that you have comprehensive travel and medical insurance cover . So do get a travel insurance . Other than that , there is nothing about going to Monaco you should especially worry about , even if you 'll technically be outside EU . Regarding your final question about getting to Monaco : it is easy and there are lots of options , as e.g. <URL> . For instance , you could take a train from Nice , Cannes , Menton ( France ) or Ventimiglia ( Italy ) . Or <URL> , which I can recommend : it takes a lovely seaside route and costs just 1 $ . ( If still in doubt , you should ask more specific questions about getting to Monaco from a given place ! )
Assuming you are flying through on the same airline or partner airlines and your bags are checked through , then no visa needed . ( CZ-CZ or CZ-KE ) If by chance you are changing carriers / alliances , you need to ask the airline originating in New York if they can check your bags through to the connecting airline . If the bags can not be checked through you will need a transit permit go claim your bags and then check them in for your next flight .
China 's visa rules are rather simple in this matter , if you are applying for a visa in a country other than your citizenship , then you need to show proof that you are residing / traveling legally in that country . If you can not prove that you are in the USA legally using your Irish passport , then you have no choice but to apply with your US passport . While you could try the excuse that you are leaving on another trip and ca n't leave your US passport behind . But there is a good chance they will levy the USA fee , even though they are stamping the visa in your Irish passport .
Since the 72 hour visa is only available to the EU countries , UK , Switzerland , and Japan . Which means that the rest of the people will have to enter under the regular tourist visa . There is also agreements being put in place regarding <URL> , so I would just apply for that and use it to enter both Kaliningrad and St. Petersburg . Or you could wait until <URL>
There is only one place designated for visitors inside the walls of the Vatican , the Domus Sanctae Marthae ( Casa Santa Marta ) . But its purpose is to lodge ecclesiastical personnel serving at the Secretariat of State and , as far as possible , at other Dicasteries of the Roman Curia , as well as to cardinals and bishops visiting Vatican City to see the Pope or to participate in events and meetings organized by the Holy See . <URL> and in particular , the cardinal electors during a papal conclave . In other words , being invited to stay here as a lay person not on official business would be something extraordinary . You might petition your prelate to recommend you for an invitation , but I think receiving one would be akin to receiving an invitation to stay at Buckingham Palace or the Blair House . There are various options very close to the Vatican , but there will be tradeoffs . There are a couple of accessible full-service hotels like the Residenza Paolo VI and the Palazzo Cardinal Cesi within a block or two of St. Peter 's Square , but prices seem to be high . As pilgrims , you may prefer a guesthouse operated by a religious order ( mostly convents ) , of which there are many in the city . The website <URL> , after the guidebook of the same name , includes selected recommendations for convent stays . A more complete and up-to-date website to check would be <URL> , though the English content is sparse . But to make arrangements directly , you 'll probably need someone who speaks Italian , so a site like <URL> or <URL> might be well worth the booking fee . Another tradeoff is that these are not hotels . The accommodations are simple , and the establishments offer limited services . They mostly impose curfews and early checkouts . The staff you meet may only speak Italian . They may not be accessible for the mobility-impaired . And naturally , the closer the amenities one is to that of a hotel or inn , the closer in price to a hotel or inn you may expect to pay . The extraterritorial properties of the Vatican are mostly individual buildings , and I do not believe it is possible for a tourist to stay overnight in any of them .
A tourist visa for US citizens can obtained upon arrival for 25 USD , preferably cash , exact change . After you deplane you first stop will be immigration . Before immigration there will be some well signed , official , booths for obtaining visa on arrival ( VOA ) . There will be a fee of 25USD ( this it not a bribe or anything of that nature , but a legitimate fee ) . It 's payable by cash or credit card . I would recommend having enough cash on hand in case the credit card system is not operational/available . There are also ATMs nearby and you may be able to pay in Indonesian Ruppiah , which is what the ATMs will probably dispense . 1 USD ~ = 10,000 IDR . Once you have paid the visa fee they will place your visa in your passport . From there it is a straight shot through immigration in a line marked for people who did VOA . No need to stand in the line for non-VOA visa people . Someone will check your passport to make sure there 's a visa in there . Then on to baggage . Some of these details may apply specifically to Soekarno-Hatta International Airport ( CGK ) but the principles should apply throughout Indonesia .
end question
start question
Dubai ( UAE ) visa requirements when staying in the airport for a French citizen ?
According to the <URL> : Citizens of the following countries ( holders of Regular Passports ) are exempted from UAE visa : [ France is in this list ] It should be noted that this list may change vary slightly from time to time and it is therefore best to check with your local UAE embassy or the airline that you are using to fly to the UAE . If you do NOT fall into one of the above categories , you will require a visa and a sponsor for your visit . The sponsor normally applies for the visa on your behalf . In short , you can leave the airport if you have sufficient time or you can stay at the airport . Either way , as a French citizen , you do n't need to prepare any documentation before travelling .
Staying Airside ? Do n't Need a Transit Visa <URL> : TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) : Holders of confirmed onward tickets for a max . transit time of 24 hours . You 'll need a visa if you wish to leave the terminal building and effectively enter the country . Countries that are not eligible for a visa on arrival must secure a visa before flying to UAE . Leaving the Airport ? Get a 96-hour Transit Visa on Arrival If you are not normally eligible for a visa on arrival , <URL> , provided you meet the following conditions ( striked-out fees are my modification since online prices are somewhat unreliable ) : This is what the IATA Travel Information Manual ( TIM ) says ( April 2011 edition ) ( the best version of an " official source " that we can find ) . Note that it only applies to Dubai Airport , not other cities or emirates . All conditions must be satisfied ... in theory . If you end up in Dubai and do n't satisfy all conditions , it might be worth trying anyway , but assume you 'll fail and you wo n't be disappointed . A 96-hour ( " Dubai Stop-over " ) transit visa can be obtained on arrival at DXB provided : Traveling to a third country through Dubai International Airport ; Transit time is at least 8 hours ; Holding return/onward ticket and a hotel reservation ; Traveling at least one sector ( inbound or outbound ) on Emirates ( EK ) . Fee : USD 127 . Facility is not applicable to passengers arriving on SQ-flights . No visa will be issued on arrival to female passengers under 30 years of age , being nationals of CIS countries . Not applicable to nationals of Afghanistan , Iraq , Niger , Somalia and Yemen . <URL> : Visa Issuance : A 96-hour transit visa can be obtained on arrival at Dubai ( DXB ) , provided : [ ... ] holding a passport valid for at least 6 months from date of arrival . Visas are only issued as a part of a transit package together with hotel accommodation and airport transfer ( paid by passenger ) .
As a French citizen , one does not need a visa to stay in Malaysia up to 3 months ( 90 days I suppose , the exact number of days is not specified on the website for some reason ) . See the <URL> for further details . See also the <URL> - although you should always triple check what is mentioned here with what official authorities say .
The answer is yes you can apply in Cyprus for the US visa but if you 're not a permanent or long term resident of Cyprus you should be prepared to reasonably prove why you could n't go back to Russia to get the visa . The site for information and applications for US Visa processing has changed to <URL> and while Cyprus section does n't contain a specific FAQ the section for <URL> addresses this very question : Q. 1 If I am a citizen of another country , can I apply for a nonimmigrant visa in Russia ? Any person who is legally present in Russia may apply for a visa in Russia . However , applicants are generally advised to apply in their country of nationality or residence . It is generally easiest to demonstrate your strong ties abroad in the country where you permanently reside . So yes you can apply but the residency question is likely come up .
You do n't need US driver 's license , just your national one . Some of the insurances are mandatory , some are optional . <URL> on WikiTravel gives a good overview . Details differ between different rental companies , so read the fine print on their web sites . You usually have to be 25 or older and need a credit card .
All you need is the HK SAR passport . The page is worded that way because they ca n't say " nationals of Hong Kong " : Hong Kong is a part of China , so there are no citizens of Hong Kong , only <URL> . And they also ca n't say " nationals of China " , because that would give visa-free access to everybody in China . So they say " permanent residents of Hong Kong SAR " , and how do you demonstrate that you are one ? By being a " holder of the Hong Kong SAR passport " . Where you actually live is irrelevant . Your question also implies that residency of Hong Kong alone is enough to get visa-free access to Russia , but this is not the case ; for example , <URL> .
Yes , you can absolutely get a Chinese visa from a Chinese Consulate in the US as a non-US citizen . I know , because I did it myself a few weeks ago . The only additional information required with your application is that you will need to provide proof of legal status in the US - this means BOTH your original visa ( which obviously they will return ) , a copy of your visa ( which they will keep ) AND either an original and copy of your I-94 card OR a printout from the CBP I-94 website if you do n't have a physical I-94 card ( www.cbp.gov/i94 ) Otherwise the process is exactly the same as for a US citizen applying , so follow the instructions as per the consulate website . Personally I applied in person at the San Francisco consulate and the process could n't have been smoother or easier ( or cheaper ! Only $ 30 for a non-US citizen to get a Visa ) , however if you are far enough away that getting to your nearest consulate is a problem then you will have to get a visa agency/broker involved as the Chinese consulates in the US do NOT accept applications via mail .
To add to @mouviciel 's answer , yes , Morocco and Iran do have an embassy presence in each others countries but here 's the catch : you can only apply for a Moroccan visa in a country you are n't a citizen of only if you 're a resident of that country . So in this case , your Iranian friend would need to be resident in Georgia to be able to apply for a visa in the embassy there ; otherwise , he needs to apply for a Moroccan visa back in Iran . I found this out when doing research for <URL> .
It is probably possible to make calls from the US to Vietnam , but it depends on your provider . ( e.g. Viettel - yes , Vietnamobile - not possible for prepay customers ) . Before you go , you 'll need to turn on roaming . Your provider will have instructions for doing this - searching for <URL> or <URL> got me what I was looking for , so I guess doing the same for Mobifone or Vinaphone will do the same . You could try searching for CQVT [ your mobile provider ] as well , which seems to mean Roaming in Vietnamese . They 'll probably want you to have a fairly large chunk of credit on your phone , certainly in the hundreds of thousands of VND . Before you turn on roaming though and call away , as was pointed out in the comments , it will be expensive . Viettel charges you somewhere in the region of 33000 VND / minute to make calls from the US to Vietnam ( that 's about $ 1.50 right now ) . On the other hand , that 's still cheaper than the $ 3.99 / minute that T-Mobile USA for example will charge you to phone home . Your cheapest option to make calls home is likely to be to use data on a local SIM , and ( again from the comments ) the question as to how you can do that <URL> It will also cost you a lot of money to receive calls - it looks like Viettel would charge 11000 VND/minute for example - so bear that in mind as well . On the upside , it should at least be free to receive an SMS . Finally - to dial an international number , you just dial + followed by the country code , so for Vietnam that 's +84 ( you also leave out the leading 0 of the number ) .
China 's visa rules are rather simple in this matter , if you are applying for a visa in a country other than your citizenship , then you need to show proof that you are residing / traveling legally in that country . If you can not prove that you are in the USA legally using your Irish passport , then you have no choice but to apply with your US passport . While you could try the excuse that you are leaving on another trip and ca n't leave your US passport behind . But there is a good chance they will levy the USA fee , even though they are stamping the visa in your Irish passport .
With regards to Canada , you are fine . Italians do not need a visa and your passport is fine . For the layover in New York you will need an ESTA from the Americans . You will also need an " e-Passport " if yours was issued after 10/25/06 . See further here : <URL>
Staying Airside ? Do n't Need a Transit Visa <URL> : TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) : Holders of confirmed onward tickets for a max . transit time of 24 hours . You 'll need a visa if you wish to leave the terminal building and effectively enter the country . Countries that are not eligible for a visa on arrival must secure a visa before flying to UAE . Leaving the Airport ? Get a 96-hour Transit Visa on Arrival If you are not normally eligible for a visa on arrival , <URL> , provided you meet the following conditions ( striked-out fees are my modification since online prices are somewhat unreliable ) : This is what the IATA Travel Information Manual ( TIM ) says ( April 2011 edition ) ( the best version of an " official source " that we can find ) . Note that it only applies to Dubai Airport , not other cities or emirates . All conditions must be satisfied ... in theory . If you end up in Dubai and do n't satisfy all conditions , it might be worth trying anyway , but assume you 'll fail and you wo n't be disappointed . A 96-hour ( " Dubai Stop-over " ) transit visa can be obtained on arrival at DXB provided : Traveling to a third country through Dubai International Airport ; Transit time is at least 8 hours ; Holding return/onward ticket and a hotel reservation ; Traveling at least one sector ( inbound or outbound ) on Emirates ( EK ) . Fee : USD 127 . Facility is not applicable to passengers arriving on SQ-flights . No visa will be issued on arrival to female passengers under 30 years of age , being nationals of CIS countries . Not applicable to nationals of Afghanistan , Iraq , Niger , Somalia and Yemen . <URL> : Visa Issuance : A 96-hour transit visa can be obtained on arrival at Dubai ( DXB ) , provided : [ ... ] holding a passport valid for at least 6 months from date of arrival . Visas are only issued as a part of a transit package together with hotel accommodation and airport transfer ( paid by passenger ) .
Where you 're from is likely irrelevant . Overstaying is overstaying , you 're not going to get treated more harshly or kindly because of who your president/king/prime minister is . There 's a great piece " <URL> " that is relevant to this . Consequences of overstaying This could result in a : no consequence - if you 're lucky , and this will depend greatly on who you deal with and what mood they 're in . fine - the smallest and easiest problem - although it can be expensive , it 's solvable with money . Have heard of 700 Euro fines for being 20 days over . record - they may put something on your personal record for the Schengen countries , making it hard to get a visa in future . ban on entry - you may be banned for 1-3 years ( usual length of time ) . deportation - very bad to have on your record , can affect all other travel to non-Schengen countries as well . In terms of some countries being more strict , if you are ' banned ' , you 're more likely to get back in by applying to one of the countries only recently admitted to the area . They 're allegedly more likely to approve ( presumably either lack of records , or for touristic purposes ) . If you 're then denied further re-entry , you can at best try to appeal for a visa - say for example , on grounds of compassion . For more information , read about <URL> .
Big malls have free WiFi for sure . The <URL> offers it free of registration , while <URL> require a simple registration - the password will be sent to your phone with a SMS . The hotel where I was staying had free WiFi in the hall . If you really need internet I suggest to get a SIM card from local company <URL> or <URL> for the duration of your stay .
You need to check with the hotel , not immigration . The hotel can report you as absconded and this will cause you all kinds of trouble when you exit the country . To be perfectly safe , I would check-in to the hotel that had the reservation , and then check-out later for my other hotel . There are rumors that hotels do report guests to immigration - but this is a post-fact reporting issue and as far as I know , there is no live link between the hotel and immigration . The reason I mention this is because frequently I have flown in for a day trip where I do n't book a hotel and this has caused no problems with immigration .
The general ( worldwide ) trend is probably to extend VOA but since visa rules are in a constant state of flux buying a visa from a Consulate should provide some reassurance that you wo n't be declined boarding due to the withdrawal of a VOA facility . VOAs can be cheaper than visas via Consulates which are easy money , so not promoted as heavily ( eg by visa agencies ) -- may account for some of your ( understandable ! ) confusion . Tanzania however is not trying to discourage tourists and the fees are the same either way ( <URL> for a German citizen ) . Waits seem to vary roughly <URL> so if on a very tight timescale via Consulate might get you out of the airport a little sooner . Note that Tanzania are fussy about the age and condition of notes if paying in USD -- not an issue is buying the visa at a Consulate . Also that VOAs for Tanzania are only valid for arrival at certain <URL> . Elsewhere there is no VOA option . <URL> . <URL>
In general , you need a visa as an Indonesian passport holder . The only exemption , which applies to you , is where you have a re-entry visa and a travel plan including travel tickets to a country like the USA or Canada . If you have a re-entry visa to the US , and you do not plan to stay in Korea longer than 30 days , you can enter <URL> , bound for the USA as a holder of a re-entry visa to the USA .
When I was last at T3 in Dubai , the terminal did have free wi-fi but it was excruciatingly slow . Boingo hotspots are present in all terminals in Dubai International Airport . <URL> . <URL> : <URL> : For a more long term option , and if you are a frequent traveller , consider purchasing a data stick from your home country that you could use in Dubai . If you travel to Dubai often , consider purchasing a data stick from one of the two ISP 's : <URL> and <URL> .
She will need to apply for a non-immigrant visa just like an adult Russian would , using the <URL> form , which is done <URL> . She will be required to go to an interview and have her fingers scanned as part of the application process . Below 14 years children travelling with a parent ( who has their own visa ) or a school group , would be <URL> . Regarding the actual flying-there part , <URL> by the airlines for the purposes of solo travel . The unaccompanied minor programs are really designed for kids up to about 11 - they basically nanny the kid the whole way until hand-over . You CAN register 12-17 year olds as unaccompanied minors if you think such treatment is warranted . In this case , at 16 , I ca n't think of anything worse . There are <URL> of 12-17 year olds getting hassled for travelling alone by either airline staff or immigration , mainly due to incompetence and not knowing the rules . You should definitely make sure she has a parental consent letter allowing the solo travel , signed by both parents . This will not only smooth over these bumps should they occur , but may be required by Russian emigration laws ( see Robert 's link in comments ) . Good luck !
The point of it is to show that you 've got a plan and know how much it 's going to cost you etc. . They want to know WHY you 're going . They already know how ( train/plane ) but want the details . SO if you can show that you 're headed to France for 3 weeks to check out war memorials , before crossing to Amsterdam for some fun and out through Munich for Octoberfest , and have hostel bookings and the like , it shows that you 've thought about it and have some idea of what you 're doing , where you 're going and maybe how you 're going to survive ( accommodation etc ) . For example , <URL> will suggest that you put together a travel plan . This could consist of the itinerary of your tour ( if you 're doing one ) , or otherwise - your accommodation , health insurance . Again , <URL> demands if you 're booking through them that you include accommodation for every single night of your stay in the region , but I 've had friends who have been issued visas without doing that . Generally , however , as per <URL> , <URL> , <URL> and <URL> , they 'll insist that you provide : proof of accommodation for the duration of your stay proof of travel + health insurance proof of funds for the duration of your stay Indeed , the <URL> suggests you need documented evidence of : Round trip reservation or itinerary with dates and flight numbers specifying entry and exit from Schengen state . Some Schengen authorities accept the itinerary when applying for the visa but request the original air - ticket when visa is collected ( please verify ) . Proof of sufficient funds for duration of stay , ( Bank statement of the past three months ) ( min . amount required is different in each country -- please verify with the relevant consular authority ) Cash will not be accepted as proof of foreign exchange . Travel/health/accident insurance : a one-page document stating that the applicant is covered by a Schengen Travel Medical Insurance , i.e. minimum medical coverage of the Rand equivalent of Euro 30.000 for all medical expenses , including repatriation dead or alive , occurring in any Schengen country . Accommodation : confirmed hotel reservation is requested ( hotel vouchers are not necessarily proof of confirmed hotel booking ) . If applicant is staying with a relative or friend , the relevant authorities may request invitation letter from the host with copy of his passport or ID . Authentication of this document by the relevant authorities may be requested . In case of a pre-paid tour please provide us details of the tour with a proof of payment to the tour operator .
end question
start question
What 's the best day of the week to buy airfare ?
A number of people will tell you different things , but I 'll say Tuesday or Wednesday . Now , there are two parts to this question . Firstly , what day is the cheapest to fly , and then what day is the cheapest to buy . To fly , is generally during the week days , not Monday or Friday as people are coming back / going on trips - leisure or business . Morning/evening flights are more expensive , etc etc. . Now , the key part you 're asking is when do you buy . Firstly , <URL> , and I 've seen personally , that airline ticket prices will often rise on the weekend , then drop again on Monday . The theory being that more people shop for tickets on the weekend . Annoying , but there you go . Now , the best day ? It 's going to be Tuesday or Wednesday , depending on a few factors . <URL> that most airlines tend to release sales on Mondays , Tuesdays , and Wednesdays Tuesday <URL> says in his opinion , booking on Tuesday evenings is ideal . He notes that airlines tend to release fare sales on Tuesday mornings , and if other carriers match , they usually do so by the evening . Fare sales generally end on Fridays , and Morrey says , " In addition , when airlines raise fares , they tend to do this on a weekend , so Saturdays and Sundays [ are ] less attractive . " <URL> , states : The best day to shop for airfare is Tuesday . And let me get even more specific : shop on Tuesday at about 3 p.m. He 's so emphatic about this , that he has an <URL> . Wednesday <URL> : By late Monday , depending on how that new fare is doing in the marketplace , Airline C might jump into the battle and offer an even lower fare , so look for all the other airlines to rush to match that one -- usually by Tuesday -- and the war is on . Prices might go even lower on Wednesday . And that 's when you strike . Wait any longer than Wednesday , and you may be in trouble . The wars usually end by Thursday morning . Why ? Friday is just around the corner ! And the cycle starts all over again . <URL> : Log on to the airline 's website shortly after 12am ( in the airline 's time zone ) on Wednesday night . This is the best day and time of the week to book a flight because this is when most airlines purge their computerized systems of any airline reservations that were not booked . Conclusion So it depends a little on what you 're searching for . For upcoming weekend flights , you should probably consider booking on Wednesdays . For far-ahead ( not this weekend ) flights , the release times described on Tuesdays seems to be the way to go :)
There 's a <URL> on Skeptics-SE : The accepted answer gave two examples of people being deported for lying on their forms , including one who did n't mention her history with the SS when she applied for a visa in 1959 , and the DoJ caught up with her in 2004 and deported her .
As far as I know , Skyteam has the same rules as pretty much every other airline or alliance : the miles for each ticket go to the person who actually uses that ticket to fly , provided they are registered in the program . It makes no difference who paid . In your example , let 's say the trip is 1000 miles long . No matter who pays , if you both register , and you both fly , then each of you gets 1000 miles . If you register and your friend does not , you get 1000 miles and your friend gets nothing . See how it works ? There is no way for you to earn miles for the ticket used by your friend , or vice versa . Note that if possible , you should register for the miles program before the trip , and add your frequent flyer numbers to the ticket . While it is usually possible to claim the miles retroactively , the process is less convenient .
You 're traveling during high season so everything is going to be packed . I would still suggest going to Koh Tao still though . They have 2-3 of the top 5 OW schools in the world ( By # of students ) . You 'll have the best dive sites and the cheapest certification ( ~ 9000 baht ) . I did mine through Big Blue in Koh Tao . Also , I 'd always be interested in where you 're going to be diving . Your first two dives it does n't matter but the 2nd two you do you will actually start to appreciate the site . The flights are always expensive to Samui because Bangkok Airways or Thai ( Forget which ) owns the airport so they control the rates hence why everyone else flys and then shuttles you via Lomprayah . If times a real issue I 'd suggest flying to Bangkok then catching the overnight bus / ferry to Koh Tao . It is n't a 4 hour flight but if you flew into Bangkok at like 5-6 pm you 'd be to Koh Tao by the next morning . <URL> There 's a few other places in Thailand that are populer for diving but they are n't easy to get to or fast . If you 're going to spend the same amount of time trying to get to Similan or somewhere , I think you 're better off going to Tao .
From the perspective of a traveler , there is almost zero difference . Both embassies and consulates are representative departments of a foreign country/government within another country . Technically , an Embassy is where an " Ambassador " is based . As there can only be one Ambassador for a specific country , there can only be ( at most ) one Embassy . As the Ambassador is the highest ranking representative of that foreign government , the Embassy is thus also deemed to be the highest level of representative location . A consulate is similar , but generally deemed to be a lower ranking due to the lack of an Ambassador . Consulates will generally be smaller - often being more like an office where the embassy often doubles as the actual residence for the Ambassador and/or some of his staff . Some countries may not have an embassy in a specific country , but may only have a consulate there . This will occur in the situation where there is no ambassador assigned to the country . From a travel perspective , both will generally provide the same services , and normally location will be far more relevant than the name . In some cases consulates may be slower to process requests as they may simply pass them onto the Embassy rather than doing them themselves . eg , the Australia consulate in San Francisco does not issue new passports - they are forwarded to the embassy in Washington DC , however all passport requests from people in the San Francisco area must be done via the local consulate and can not be sent directly to the embassy !
Once you go outside of your home country the vast majority of ATM transactions are handled via either the Visa or MasterCard owned networks . Even where they are handled via other mechanisms , you can pretty much presume that any ATM which is going to to allow international cards to be used is going to be a part of the Visa and/or MasterCard networks . This is true regardless of whether the card is a Credit Card , a Visa/MasterCard logoed Debit Card , or just a plain bank ATM card with the Plus , Maestro or Cirrus logos on the back . Both Visa ( Plus ) and MasterCard ( Maestro/Cirrus ) have features on their websites where you can search a specific city anywhere in the world to find ATMs that will work with any Visa/MasterCard cards . Presuming your ATM card is marked with either a MasterCard , Maestro or Cirrus logo then it should work at any of the ATMs listed on the <URL> . Mastercard also have a <URL> for iPhone , Android , and Blackberry . If it 's marked with either a Visa , Electron or Plus logos , then it should work at any ATM on the <URL> , or on the <URL> .
I would recommend summer . The weather is warm but not too hot , less than in Italy or Japan . See this minimum/maximum graph in <URL> ( in Celsius , 25 ° C = 77 ° F ) : During summer touristic places are open everywhere , even in the South , the warmer the better . During summer people working in Paris leave for the South , but Paris still has a lot of activities , even more than during other seasons . Most festivals happen during summer , especially countryside ones ( <URL> ) . Other seasons can be rainy but summer usually is not . See the low rain stats during July/August :
The easy , safe and cheap option is train station lockers , which can be found at all major train stations in Tokyo ( and Japan ) . Japanese lockers are usually narrow but deep , so while hard plastic suitcases will not fit into them , backpacks are generally not a problem . Some larger stations ( eg . Tokyo stn ) also have manned left luggage counters ( 手荷物預かり所 nimotsu-azukari-dokoro ) , which can handle any size of bag and only cost a bit more than lockers . On station maps , these are usually shown with a " bag-and-key " icon , while lockers are " bag-in-box-with-key " . Which one to recommend , though , is going to depend on what you were going to do during your day in Tokyo and how you 're planning to get around . If you 're planning on exploring around Shibuya or Shinjuku , I 'd take the Keikyu railway from Haneda and leave the bag at Shinagawa . Shibuya and Shinjuku are a few stops away on the Yamanote line , and you can continue to Narita directly on the JR Narita Express ( N'EX ) . Alternatively , you can transfer from Shinagawa to Shibuya/Shinjuku with your bag , leave it at either station , and then take the N'EX . If you 're planning on exploring around Ueno and Asakusa , I 'd take the monorail to Hamamatsucho , connect to Yamanote , and leave the bag at Ueno . Ueno Park is walking distance , Asakusa is a few stops away on the Ginza Line , and you can continue to Narita directly on the Keisei Skyliner ( premium ) or Sky Access Limited Express ( cheaper , slower ) . You can also take the Keikyu line via Shinagawa directly to Asakusa , but this takes approximately forever and may require a transfer along the way . I probably would not recommend Tokyo station : it 's huge , remarkably confusing , not terribly close to anything interesting ( although naturally it 's well connected to the entire city ) , and not super easy to get to from Haneda . That said , there are <URL> from Tokyo stn to Narita , so if you 're really pinching pennies it might be worth hassle . One tip : when you do leave your bag , pay careful attention to where the locker is and how you got there , these are all massive stations and ( voice of experience ) it 's no fun running around trying to figure out where the hell you left it ...
The ferries to Albania , be it to Durazzo or Vlorë , depart Italy from either Ancona , Bari or Brindisi ( ordered by distance from longest to shortest ) : Mappa traghetti , <URL> , Fair Use It is safe to assume that the duration of the journey will depend on the distance between the two cities . <URL> yields the following result in terms of travel time ( A : outward , R : return ) : Ancona - Durazzo : 20h00m A | 20h00m R Bari - Durazzo : 09h00m A | 20h00m R Brindisi - Vlorë : 07h30m A | 05h00m R See below for a screenshot of the search results : Some routes are available only seasonally and not throughout the year . According to Cemar , <URL> : Adria Ferries : ( Traghetti online Tel. 892.112 ) Servizio trisettimanale svolto con la nave traghetto " Riviera del Conero " e " Riviera Adriatica " Da Ancona per Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) ad Ancona 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Bari ( Italia ) a Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) a Bari ( Italia ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Cemar also says that Venezia Lines runs a fast catamaran from Bari to Durazzo . However searching on the company website seems to indicate that the service was discontinued , as the only lines one can find depart from Venice and aim for Croatia .
I 'll try to answer on the assumption that you 're asking mostly about the relative practicality of a day trip , rather than asking for a sort of value judgment on the merits of an overnight . You can see a number of popular tourist destinations on a day trip to Kamakura from Tokyo . Additionally , it 's a somewhat sleepy city that , in comparison to much of Tokyo or Yokohama , as temples and shrines close to the public around sunset and retail mostly sort of shuts down around 5:30 -6 pm or so , and unless you 're staying for an unusually late dinner and drinks sort of thing , it 's perfectly easy to get back to nearly anywhere in Tokyo as long as you leave by 10pm or so . Train frequency decreases later in the evening , and that 's the main risk you have to getting back to your hotel . If you plan ahead or use the mobile version of <URL> web site , that should n't be a big problem . The primary benefit of an overnight is that it simply is n't practical to see more than two or three of the major shrines/temples in a single day . Some of the best known ones , like the Daibutsu at Kōtoku-in , can be a pretty substantial walk from other major destinations , like Hachimangu Shrine , so if you have a long list of places you 'd like to see and you 're not motivated to navigate local buses or take taxis to reduce your travel time , or if it happens to be a busy tourist season or pilgrimage season with lots of lines , you might lose a lot of time to travel and waiting . If you have lots of places you want to see , and you want to navigate the little shops selling lacquerware and leather goods and so on that Kamakura is fairly well known for , allow time for lunch and snacks , and stop impromptu at whatever sights you stumble on without advance planning , it can be nice to have the advantages of an early morning after an overnight stay so that you do n't have to push yourself too hard .
The standard way would be to take a train . The <URL> is the place to look for train schedules and prices , and you can book online and print most ticket types at home . The website normally shows the fastest routes only , but you can tell it to omit ICEs ( high-speed trains , often more expensive ) or to stick to regional trains ( slowest and usually cheapest ) . The bad news about German rail prices is that they are very complicated . The good news is that the DB trip planner will usually offer you the cheapest price for a given connection . The exception is that sometimes a day ticket is cheaper even for a single trip , and the website wo n't always tell you . Generally speaking , you will get a substantial discount if you decide on a day and time early and book a non-refundable , non-exchangeable ticket . These tickets can often give you high-speed travel for a similar price as regional trains . Some ticket types also include the possibility of local travel ( buses , trams , U-Bahn , S-Bahn ) at the beginning or end of the journey , check if it 's a possibility ( it 's rarely a deciding factor in choosing a fare type ) . At the moment , the cheapest fare I can see in October is 44 $ for a high-speed connection ( direct , or ICE most of the way with one change ) , if you avoid the heaviest-loaded peak hour trains , for a 4 1/2 to 5 hours journey time . Alternatively , you can pay 42 $ for a ticket that lets you travel on all regional trains in Germany for a day provided you start after 9am ( <URL> ) . Do note that Freiburg to Hannover is 10 hours on regional trains . If several of you are traveling on the same route , note that some ticket types offer considerable discounts for additional passengers . For example , the Quer-durchs-Land-Ticket is only 6 $ for each additional passenger traveling together . The <URL> , valid for one day on a Saturday or Sunday in regional trains only , is 39 $ for up to 5 people . Thus one possibility for cheap travel is to find someone who 's taking the same train anyway and offer to pay the add-on price . I do n't foresee this working well for a cross-country journey like yours though . Sometimes you can get cheap fares on budget airlines . These are often only attractive if you have a cheap way to get to and from the airport ; otherwise the cost of local transportation can be prohibitive . There 's no airport near Freiburg ; the closest is the <URL> , and a bus ticket to Freiburg is a whooping <URL> . If you do n't take the train and do n't fly , your other option is to hitch-hike . That can come out cheapest , if you find someone going the right way at the right time . If you 're traveling from the <URL> , the situation is quite different . Flying might be more attractive , though for this particular combination of cities it does n't seem to be : you ca n't fly direct to Hannover , only to Hamburg , and <URL> 's cheapest fare comes out at 41 $ ( including the booking fees in small type ) . The best train route is via Basel ( which you can <URL> by a <URL> <URL> ) ; this requires going through Switzerland ( which may be a problem for some visa types ) . ( While there are both an SNCF ( French railways ) station ( Basel/B âle SNCF ) and a DB ( German railways ) station ( Basel Bad Bf ) in Basel , they are separated by a few hundred meters of Switzerland . The SNCF station is next to the Swiss railway station , Basel SBB . Since Switzerland has joined <URL> , border checks are no longer systematic and Shengen visas are valid . ) At this time , the 44 $ rate from Basel Bad to Hannover is available if you travel near the middle of the day . Book early , as prices will rise towards the standard fare ( 119 $ ) as the travel day approaches . Many discount rates are also valid from Basel SBB ( which is where the bus from the airport drops you ) . There 's also a discount rate for international tickets from and to Germany , <URL> , but I 'm not sure if it 's available from Basel . There 's a direct night train as well ; it 's more expensive than the day train but can be less expensive than the day train plus a night in a hostel . If you need to avoid Switzerland , take a bus to Saint-Louis then French regional trains to Mulhouse and on to Strasbourg . You can look up the times , but not book , on the <URL> ( Saint-Louis is " St-Louis ( Haut Rhin ) " ) . You can look up times and prices on the <URL> ( French only as far as I can see ) ; there are no discounts for advance purchase on regional trains , so buy your ticket when you arrive at the station .
Performances take place at the Official Viewing area , which is along 34th St at the end of the parade route . It is where the TV camera crews set up , the VIPs hang out and is so crowded you are better off watching the performances later on your TV .
The point of introducing biometric passports is that they 're much harder to forge for common criminals . For example , one could replace a passport photo to another person ( this is still possible on certain passports ) , and use this passport for a different persona . With a biometric passport this is not possible , because the photo is also stored in the chip , and they wo n't match . And if someone replaces a chip as well , then the rest of the information wo n't match ( actually the chip wo n't read in this case ) . Thus most people will have an extra layer of verification , and those with a damaged chip would be subject to extra scrutiny .
Your best bet is to travel on Thanksgiving Day ( Thursday ) -- the airports wo n't be too crowded then , and fares are usually substantially cheaper . Tuesday might also be a cheap day , but try to avoid Wednesday at all costs -- it is one of the busiest travel days of the year in the US , if not the most . Since most people are traveling home to be with their families , good hotel deals should be much easier to find in Las Vegas than LA or SF . In most US cities , things will be pretty dead on Thanksgiving Day . Most stores and restaurants close early if they open at all , although I know from family traditions that movie theaters are open ( and popular ) after the early Thanksgiving Day feast . Just about everything is open extremely early ( ~ 5 AM in many cases ) the next day for Black Friday , the most popular shopping day of the year . Avoid the stores on that day , unless you 're looking to score some really cheap deals or you 're the kind of person that likes to witness complete chaos firsthand . And if you do somehow manage to arrive by Wednesday evening , that is a great " going-out " night as everyone hits the bars to let off steam before dealing with their families for the next four days .
Oddly enough I was n't able to find any information on this online , I 'll continue to search in case I 'm able to find something . Meanwhile , I 'll tell you the general rules . As you would expect , it is entirely dependent on the policy of the country in which the airline is registered . Considering that , since the drinking age in Iceland is 20 , the drinking age on the flight should be 20 . There is a catch here though , but it 's not the fact that the flight it going to Sweden . This is not considered in this case and the flight could be going anywhere and the drinking age would still remain the same . The catch is that most of Europe has a drinking age of 18 , so it is possible that in order to maintain compatibility with the rest of Europe , Iceland allows Icelandair to follow a policy wherein the drinking age is a more widely accepted 18 . As far as I would presume though , if you look old enough , they wo n't specifically ask you to present your ID , but of course I would wait for someone with personal experience to probably verify .
Fist of all a short disclaimer : The blue market is an unofficial market not recognized by federal authorities and changing money there is illegal . Thousands of Argentinians use this market every day as buying dollars in the official market is almost prohibited by the government . I will try to answer your question without entering into the details of the current political and economical situation which is currently driving Argentina . As you pointed out , there are currently two very different rates for the Argentinian Peso ( ) According to Yahoo Finance the official exchange between $ 1 dollar and the peso is <URL> What you mention in your question is what is known as the Blue Market As stated in the disclaimer , currently it is <URL> for Argentinians to buy foreign currency which has made the price go up in the secondary market . You can find the current value per $ 1 on many unofficial websites like <URL> . As for today $ 1 is about $ 7.50 pesos Where can you trade in the Blue Market ? People selling the blue dollar are called " <URL> " ( little trees ) and places where you can buy/sell the blue are called " cuevas " ( caves ) While you are in Buenos Aires you can ask any cab driver , shop owner , hotel personnel , etc , for the closest arbolito or where to trade the blue market and they will be able to point you in the right direction . Disclaimer again : Remember it is illegal ( although AFIP ( Argentinian IRS ) does not seem to be chasing buyers )
TL ; DR : If you have < $ 1000 - < $ 2000 worth of money , use a travel card ( you can easily get one from Axis Bank ) otherwise use a wire transfer for either your Bank Account or from a Forex Service . I happen to have a BoA account as well , so I do this quite often . In India , in order to transfer money to the US , you have three options , Use your local bank in which you have an account with all that money in it . If you have most of your money in cash , then your best bet is to deposit this in an account because that 's what they will need in order to wire transfer to BoA . This would ideally be the easiest way if your money is already in a bank account . Axis Bank is one of the better bank which you could do this with , because they provide a lot of forex services such as travel cards and all as well . Use remittance services with a leading foreign exchange service such as <URL> . They might be willing to take cash as well but they might require you to write them a check from a bank account . If you absolutely want to use cash , I think a PAN Card would be required in order to make sure that the cash can be associated to your account for taxation purposes . Get a free <URL> or any other service and load that with all your money in it and make a withdrawal using any ATM in the US and deposit all the money in your BoA account using the Travel Card . Now , let 's talk about the costs , Unforunately this depends more on your negotiation skills that anything else , for a small amount i.e < $ 1000 , carrying in your Travel Card would be a better option , otherwise , using one of the two services I mentioned is better . Now , I have gotten better rates from the bank as well as 3rd party dealers with respect to Forex Bank Transfers but typically for larger amounts i.e > $ 10000 you are looking at an additional rate of about 0.3 - 0.5 % . For the travel card , the rate is usually 1 % is the norm . Note : BoA will charge you about $ 12 for an incoming wire transfer whereas the banks I mentioned might charge you a flat fee of about $ 10 or Rs . 500 for both travel cards and wire transfers . As you might expect , these depend on the Bank/Forex Service . If you carry the travel card and you withdraw money from the card , a fee of $ 2 is usually charged by the withdrawing ATM ( in this case a BoA ATM ) and of course to deposit the money into your account , ( maximum of $ 800 per transaction in both cases i.e if you have more , then you need to withdraw and deposit multiple times ) . Lastly , what documentation do you require , Simple , all you need is the Swift Code <URL> of the bank and the Bank Account ( either Checking or Saving , any one is OK ) number you wish to transfer to and although not required , but the branch of the bank will be additional information which wo n't hurt . Basically any information which is required to uniquely identify the transaction to your unique account . To add , I would be highly surprised if you carried a major amount of money outside India in INR . This is not allowed as per the FEMA act and is clearly mentioned on the <URL> , Residents are free to take outside India ( other than to Nepal and Bhutan ) currency notes of Government of India and Reserve Bank of India notes up to an amount not exceeding Rs . 10,000 - per person . More information about the same has also been discussed earlier on this website , check this question , <URL> In case you did though , there is not much you can do with it , because it is ultimately illegal and if you turn up with that sum of money in Indian Rupees anywhere outside India , you will turn heads and you risk confiscation of that money .
There is significant tourism infrastructure in Cairns . This includes the international airport and a booking agency on every corner . There is good competition amongst operators . I do not think you will find better value for money in other locations up or down the coast . If you are looking to get away from the tourist areas , you could consider staying on an island ( e.g. Heron Island ) and doing multiple day scuba trips .
I 'd suggest you get a cheap GSM phone ( assuming you 're not lucky enough to have a GSM phone already ) , and then pick up a pre-pay ( PAYG ) sim card when you get to spain . This will also have the bonus of giving you a Spanish number for the duration of your trip , so people in Spain can call you for a sensible amount of money . If you only want data , you may wish to get an unlocked 3g usb dongle , and then pick up a PAYG sim card for it , that could potentially be cheaper than doing it via a phone .
Simple : tip daily , if you can . If you tip daily , your tips will definitely go to all the people who clean your room . If you tip at the end of your stay , your tip may or may not go to all the people who clean your room . Also , by frontloading your tips , you build up goodwill with the staff , and housekeeping will be happy to do you a favor if you need it . An extra towel or a few more bottles of water ? No problem !
end question
start question
Why do US passport cards have such limited usage ?
The passport card is a card -- it does n't have any pages to it , thus there is no place for visas or entry/exit stamps . Thus , it can only be used to travel to places where no visa is needed and where there are treaties in place to ensure that enough data is exchanged between immigration departments so that they can keep track of you without stamps . As the use of the cards usually involve bilateral and reciprocal treaties -- and few countries have passport cards to reciprocate -- it 's unlikely that more countries will accept American passport cards in the near future .
You can apply to replace a lost I-94 by filing <URL> . It 's very expensive though . It might be worth checking the <URL> in case they have it there , in which case you can print it out ; though it 's unlikely in your case . How are you leaving the U.S. ? According to <URL> , if you leave by air , you do n't have to turn in an I-94 . But if you leave by land , then you need to turn in an I-94 , so you might need to get a replacement . Or maybe if you do n't turn it in you can try to resolve it out with CBP the next time you try to enter , with proof that you entered Canada or Mexico .
Unless you book the whole room ( ie pay for all 6 beds ) , then yes , you may well be sharing with others . Of course , depending on the time of the train , the service , and the route , and the time of year , it may not be full , and you may luck out and get the whole room to yourselves . No , there 's no ' partial occupancy claims full room ' rule - if there 's a spare bed , someone can buy that ticket and use it . You could perhaps try asking new people to use a different room , warn them that you snore or something , but otherwise no . Six is not so bad , try platzkart class in Russia where you have 54 beds in one big open carriage , or obshi class in Uzbekistan - no beds , and 100ish people just sitting for 24 hours ( ! ) .
I 'm not sure whether what you 're looking for exists . One of the better offers I 've seen so far is Prepaidzero 's " Prepaid SIM for mobile data in all of Europe " ( it 's currently listed at the bottom of their <URL> page ) . It 's limited to 7GB for a 30-day period , as well as to 500MB per day . A card that 's valid for 15 days costs $ 221,25 ( about 230 USD at today 's rate ) ; the card is shipped worldwide for a $ 7,00 fee . They offer cards in standard , micro and nano SIM sizes . It does n't quite provide the amount of data you 're looking for . But unless this happens to be an uncompetitive offer , I 'm somewhat skeptical you 'll find a package that offers more than 4 times as much data for a very similar price ( that is , at least 30 GB for around 200 USD as stated in your question ) .
Because it would be ridiculously expensive . Not only would it require a massive increase in the number of planes an airline has to purchase and maintain , it would not even garantee that there would always be a spare since there are many different types of airplanes that serve different purposes . It would be impossible to have one of each on standby in every airport . Airlines therefore chose to live with the cost ( and reputation hit ) of not having immediate spares , even if that means compensating passengers or even losing customers . Small caveat : Airlines will usually have some aircraft on standby for a variety of reasons . For example : at their main hub , for maintenance , etc. . My answer is targeted towards airlines not having enough spares to cover for every flight delay around the world .
Give them your Canadian passport . From the US point of view , whichever one you travel on is the one you 'll be using and therefore , your citizenship . Example : I have New Zealand and South African , and travelled through the US on my New Zealand . Never need to mention the South African one - there 's never a question about it , apart from some forms asking your place of birth . You provide the passport to the airline for this trip - they 'll ask again . You could have a new NZ passport by now , or a different citizenship , so they 're always going to ask again .
Is it possible to legally obtain a second , fake passport ? The legality of obtaining a fake passport depends upon where you obtain it . I have seen market stalls in Cairo ready to sell any document you want legality notwithstanding . Not a market stall , but there 's ' paper shops ' in Belarus doing the same thing . For you it 's a transaction like a souvenir , for the people who make them it 's a different story . However , to have one in your possession in the EU ( including the UK ) is illegal , even if you did n't use it . If not , is it possible to obtain a second , real passport in a fully legal fashion ? ( This is my preference if possible . ) This is common with people who need lots of visas so they flip-flop them to travel on one passport when the other is tied up in an application pipeline . You simply need a premise . With respect to your strategy , consider this scenario ... You are at your relatives and give your parents a fake passport . You miss the bus or get waylaid in a brothel somewhere and do not show up at bed time . So your parents contact the police and innocently show them your fake passport . Wo n't this be a jolly hoot . So your strategy is blind to some of the things that can happen . The ' best practices ' prescription for your situation is to establish an independent lifestyle so that these impractical strategies are not needed .
From some research , it looks like my two main options are T-Mobile and AT&amp;T GoPhone . Looking first at <URL> , it looks like Canadian Roaming is <URL> but possible . I 've found a <URL> from one of their employees from a month or so ago which confirms : calls will have a roaming fee of $ 0.49 a minute if calling a Canadian number , and an additional $ 0.20 per minute if calling a U.S. number . Also , incoming texts will deduct from whatever package you currently have at no additional charge whereas outgoing will cost $ 0.35 a message , and plus an additional $ 0.20 if you do not have a text package , or go over your text package . One more thing , web is $ 10 per MB when roaming in Canada . Moving on then to <URL> , they have all the info in a handy <URL> . Short answer is that AT&amp;T GoPhone automatically works roaming in Canada and Mexico , without needing to opt in . Calls in Canada ( made or received ) are apparently $ 0.39 / minute , texts are $ 0.25 / $ 0.20 to send/receive , and data is an eye-watering $ 20/mb . . Alternately , if I go for one sim card in each country , then Rogers currently offer <URL> or <URL> . Looks therefore like as I 'll be doing half my time in each country , I 'll be better off just buying a simcard in each . However , for much shorter trips or short trips with no data needs , roaming is possible and might be better for people in that situation .
I 'm Chris from Rome2Rio , if you do n't mind sharing your experience we 'd be keen to find out which TGV routes and European routes in general you have found are missing from Rome2Rio results . This would help us review and improve our results in future . If you prefer you can send the details to feedback@rome2rio.com If you are looking for alternatives to Rome2Rio you could also try <URL> along with the Voyage SCNF site already mentioned . Also there are a couple more German focused sites with similar concepts GoEuro and <URL> in the future they may expand to feature other European countries in their data . Some other sites that you may already be aware of that I 'd recommend would be Bahn a comprehensive schedule planner along with Seat 61 which has good references and guides to travelling by train in Europe . There also several nice sites using the Rome2Rio API , but as it is generally the same dataset as Rome2Rio you may not be as interested in those :)
I went to Seoul in summer 2015 and I could use my Visa everywhere . I can not tell if there are some places which will reject your mastercard , most likely there will be but I 've stayed there for a month and I could pay and withdraw money without any issue . As far as I know , Koreans have plenty of credit cards and they use it on daily basis so you should not have trouble using yours . ;) I did not have my Mastercard so I could not try but most ATM were compatible with it . I did n't check for American Express since I do n't own an AE card . EDIT : see more details <URL> and <URL> EDIT2 : as said in one of the link , do n't forget to notify your bank that you 'll use your card abroad ... For security matter my bank was denying any operation from abroad , I had to tell them where I was and the dates of my travel . NB : I used a Visa credit card issued by French bank .
I am not too sure about the " despite colonization " bit . I ca n't really see a pattern , one way or the other . Some ex-British colonies offer visas on arrival for British citizens ( e.g. Kenya ) , some do n't ( e.g. India ) and most treat <URL> or <URL> in exactly the same way . And then for some reason , Luxembourgish and Finnish citizenships -- but not British citizenship -- are the only ones in Europe to enable a visa on arrival in India . At the end of the day , the <URL> ( <URL> ) has British citizens tied with Swedes and Finns and not far above citizens from a host of other European nations , Australia , the US and Canada . So the small differences that do exist might simply be accidents and the main fact in all this is that citizens from rich nations generally have easier access to other countries , whatever their colonial history . Explanations for that might include the fact that it 's good for business and tourism or that these countries have more means to secure agreements through diplomacy , foreign aid , etc. . One glaring difference between UK and US citizens ( lack of visa-free visit or at least visa-on-arrival for Brazil ) might however be explained . I ca n't find an official source for that right now but I think Brazil has a strict reciprocity policy and only grants visa-free access to citizens of countries that do the same for Brazilian citizens . Brazilian citizens <URL> but <URL> .
The USA Passport Card is really only useful if you plan to travel only within the countries bordering the USA . In terms of back up id in the event you lose your passport , your current state drivers license is perfectly acceptable as an ID for going to US Embassies and Consulates . And is the preferred form of ID within the USA . While the Passport Card might allow the overseas consul to look up your lost passport details faster , I do n't think it would make it that much difference in the end result . Personally , I made a wallet sized copy of the info page of my passport , which travels in my wallet all of the time . I also have a scanned copy stored online that I can access from a computer . The wallet sized versions satisfies most law enforcement officers should they ask to see my passport when traveling around inside a country ( assuming my passport is not on me at that moment ) .
What Mark Mayo said is basically correct . Some other tips/notes : You should have no problems making purchases with a credit card in any petrol station in Bulgaria . Same applies to international chains such as McDonalds , Subway , Billa , Metro , Lidl etc. . Coffee shops , bars and restaurants , as well as clothing and apparel stores will usually accept credit cards , unless they are decidedly of the low-cost/fast-food variety . A hard-and-fast rule : if it looks fancy or is a brand name you recognize , it should n't be a problem , especially in big cities . I 'm not sure whether there 's a hard limit on the minimum amount of purchase , but if paying by card is an option , anything above $ 3 - $ 4 should be okay . Paying with card for travelling ( e.g. city transportation , trains , buses ) is particularly troublesome , and you probably wo n't be able to do it anywhere , so I 'd always keep cash on hand for that . If you just want to get something to eat at a random place you see on the street ( especially at night ) , chances are they wo n't accept your card . There 's a small possibility that your card wo n't work with some POS terminals , for inexplicable reasons -- I had this problem a few times with my foreign-issued VISA while shopping in Bulgaria . Most commonly accepted credit card types are VISA , VISA Electron , MasterCard , Maestro ( debit cards ) . If you have some other card operator , be prepared for a major disappointment . Disclaimer : I am Bulgarian .
Both the USA and Canada only require a passport to be valid for the period of intended stay FOR GERMAN CITIZENS . Normally when entering the USA and Canada you would be granted entrance for 90 days/6 months respectively , however given your passport will expire before that period is up you will only be granted entry until the expiry date on your passport . In future I would strongly recommend not cutting it this close with the expiry . If something goes wrong whilst you are in the country and you end up having to stay longer than expected it can cause real problems . Some countries also enforce that your passport must be valid for at least 6 months at time of entry , but thankfully neither the US or Canada do that for GERMAN CITIZENS however the US does requite 6 months validity for citizens of many countries .
While sites like Wikitravel do n't seem to help too much in this case , fortunately we can look at anecdotal evidence and quotes on VirtualTourist <URL> like <URL> . Quotes from these pages for a selection of clubs : " Dress Code : No jeans or sneakers/trainers , must be very fashionable . " " Dress Code : No Jeans , shorts , or flip flops !!!! " " Dress Code : Just do n't look like a COPLETE MUPPET !! " ( sic ) " Dress Code : Dress to kill , place is Ultra HIP !!!!! " " Dress Code : Casual Chic , everyone 's an expat or a chuppie ( chinese yuppie ) over here . " " Dress Code : Dress like a rich hobbit . The place here is small and the food/drinks come at a price . " " Dress Code : Trendy and stylish " " Dress Code : I dont know that there is a dress code but we did have proper evening attire on and fit right in . " " Dress Code : Your with the movers and shakers of the Hong Kong world !!!!! Dress to Impress is the word !!!!! " " Dress Code : Cool lounge wear - jeans are fine , flip flops are not noticeable but dress cool " So it sounds like for a lot of them , smart-casual is the plan , and given there 's some suggestion of style and smartening-up , personally I 'd pack town shoes .
I believe the answer is immigration , immigration and immigration ( real or perceived ) . In Europe at least , visa requirements and enforcement measures are motivated mostly by the risk that the people in question would try to enter the country and stay there illegally ( and of course all the political posturing around that risk ) . It could be argued that immigration is generally a net gain for a country ( cf. your point about talented people ) or that the risk of illegal immigration is overblown or entirely the result of an overly restrictive policy regarding legal immigration but none of this changes the politics . Just to provide some direct evidence of all this , the following is from the preamble of the Schengen visa code : In accordance with Article 61 of the Treaty , the creation of an area in which persons may move freely should be accompanied by measures with respect to external border controls , asylum and immigration . [ ... ] As regards visa policy , the establishment of a ' common corpus ' of legislation , particularly via the consolidation and development of the acquis ( the relevant provisions of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 and the Common Consular Instructions , is one of the fundamental components of ' further development of the common visa policy as part of a multi-layer system aimed at facilitating legitimate travel and tackling illegal immigration through further harmonisation of national legislation and handling practices at local consular missions ' , as defined in the Hague Programme : strengthening freedom , security and justice in the European Union . [ ... ] It is necessary to set out rules on the transit through international areas of airports in order to combat illegal immigration . Thus nationals from a common list of third countries should be required to hold airport transit visas . Nevertheless , in urgent cases of mass influx of illegal immigrants , Member States should be allowed to impose such a requirement on nationals of third countries other than those listed in the common list . Member States ' individual decisions should be reviewed on an annual basis . This is only one example but it 's explicitly all about immigration . I think the other considerations ( reciprocity , passports ) only factor in tangentially . Note that until now the EU has not really been insisting so strongly on reciprocity , so that US citizens still enjoy visa-free visits to the whole Schengen area despite the fact that after years of discussion there are still several EU countries whose citizens are not eligible for the Visa Waiver Program . Similarly , some or all EU citizens enjoy visa-free ( or visa-on-arrival ) access to countries such as Turkey , Morocco , Tunisia and most of South America so reciprocity is clearly overemphasized as an explanation .
I can answer this for the UK and Schengen members ... In the first instance , consulates take your passport because there are <URL> is issued . Prominent among those are ... Paragraph 24 , which states ... The following must produce to the Immigration Officer a valid passport or other identity document endorsed with a United Kingdom entry clearance issued to him for the purpose for which he seeks entry : ... Paragraph 27 , which states ... An application for entry clearance is to be decided in the light of the circumstances existing at the time of the decision ... Paragraph 28 , which states ... An applicant for an entry clearance must be outside the United Kingdom and Islands at the time of the application ... ( These rules are all found at <URL> ) From these it 's clear that they need to take possession of the travel document in order to assess its validity . And from Paragraphs 27 and 28 they need to be sure that the conditions of issuance are ' fixed ' to a specific date and time . It means that the applicant has not travelled with the passport in the interval between submission and issuance , and ( to the extent possible ) the applicant is not in the UK when the decision is made . In addition , the Entry Clearance Officer has to assess the application . These things can not be done ' while-you-wait ' and holding the passport helps to guarantee that Paragraphs 24 , 27 , and 28 are diligently observed . There are some practical and administrative considerations that come into play ... Those visa stickers are affixed to the passport page by a machine and there 's usually one machine per post . The passports need to be sequenced , fed in to the machine , and then checked by a human . This is done as a background task by local hires who may be on shift work in a batch . Trying to arrange a batch according to whoever showed up is administratively impractical . In the UK case , they do n't like people hanging around the consulate , they like to make the decision entirely by paper-based evidence ( they really do not like to engage the public directly for various reasons not worth going in to here ) . Moreover , the security is not staffed up for lengthy queues . So they use a VFS to ring-fence the consulate from engaging directly with the public ( yes , there are exceptions where they need to see someone but these are not the normal case ) . In keeping with the above , most of the world is set up to use the <URL> as a intermediary , the applicant drops off their stuff and then returns to collect it when they get a notification email . The VFS has no decision-making role and largely acts as a secured courier , so it really makes no sense to have a queue of people hanging around the VFS waiting for a visa to be affixed . In places like Nigeria , the passport and evidence may be sent to their special assessment unit that performs ' deep analysis ' . This can take several weeks and it would not make sense to separate the passport from the other evidence during this phase . In the Schengen cases where the applicant must report to the consulate for an interview , it would mean making two trips to the consulate : one for the interview and one to collect their stuff , this is thought to be an unreasonable burden on the applicant . Especially in the British case , there is an overarching cultural influence best called : ( TITWTW , ' titwah ' ) . This usually operates as a stand-alone rationale for a lot of things in the UK and visas are no exception . If you encounter TITWTW , the discussion has reached its conclusion . Other answers in the archives here have pointed out that the application location is not necessarily the decision location . Applications submitted in Morocco for example are decided in Croydon ( London suburbs ) . Applications submitted in Kabul are decided in New Delhi ( graphic from UKVI presentation ) . So where would the applicant queue ? <URL> And as a final note , yes , it 's possible for an applicant to have an ECO come around to their house or office , or for an applicant to show up at the consulate on a while-you-wait basis . They are very flexible and will accommodate almost anything you want ( I attended the <URL> on this topic and can attest to the flexibility ) . I have n't checked recently but the last time I looked , those services started at about GBP 15k and upwards from there . A person can also arrange for a private landing interview at Heathrow ( etc ) and they will even send someone to small airports like Robin Hood . Note : most of the above are stated as UK specific , Schengen members have comparable or similar conditions . Note : dual nationals ( or holders of duplicate passports ) always come up with the corner case : can I apply for entry clearance with one passport and simultaneously enter the UK on my other passport ? This is theoretically possible because the IO may not always know that the person has applied for entry clearance using a second passport . But returning to Paragraph 28 , if they ever find out that the person was in th
In short : no . Mostly , credit card acceptance in Germany is still the exception rather than the norm . There are a couple of places , however , where you can expect at least Visa and MC to be accepted , most notably ATMs and gas stations . Be prepared to pay in cash everywhere else .
Some Stats I ran some stats for you ( from our data on Hostelz.com , a travel website that I represent ) and currently 97 % of hostels provide free bedsheets , and the remaining 3 % charge a fee . Towels are a different matter . Currently 50.5 % of hostels include free towels , 46.9 % charge a fee , and 2.6 % do n't offer towels at all . The History Over the long term , the trend is actually moving in the opposite direction of what you may think it is . In the past hostels traditionally did n't provide bedsheets or towels at all . When staying in hostels , you were expected to bring your own " sleepsheet " ( usually made from two bedsheets sewn together ) . As recently as the early 2000s , guidebooks recommended always having your sleepsheet when staying in hostels because most hostels charged extra if you did n't bring your own sheets , and some did n't offer sheets at all . Over the past couple decades , hostels have been more and more offering amenities similar to what you would expect from hotels ( and they 've been raising their rates as well ) . Some may still charge for sheets because they traditionally have always done that , but some hostels may be just doing it as a way to profit from added fees ( the Ryanair business model ) . How to Find Out To answer your question about how to find out ahead of time which hostels charge for sheets or towels , most of the hostels ' own websites do n't include that info from what I 've seen . If you 're looking on Hostelz.com , we list that information in the column on the left side of each listing , usually including the specific price they charge if the hostel provided that information . Other websites may list information as well ( Hostelworld for example will usually say " sheets included " if they 're free , so if you do n't see that , there may be a fee ) . Consider Bringing Your Own Personally I still always bring a sleepsheet ( or " travelsheet " ) with me anyway . I just like sleeping in my own familiar sheets . You could bring a simple bedsheet with you , or if you do n't mind spending some money , you can get a really nice <URL> . Silk is ideal because it 's super lightweight , compacts to a very small size , durable , breathable , and super comfortable .
Firstly keep in mind that the answer to this question will vary significantly depending on the countries involved . Some countries ( eg , the US ) have requirements that if you are a citizen you MUST enter using the passport of that country . So as a US/UK citizen you must always use your US passport when entering the US . The UK does NOT have such a requirement . ie , you can enter the country using either your US or UK passports - as long as the passport you use is valid for the type of trip . eg , if you were planning to be in the UK for the next year , then you could not enter on your US passport , as a US citizen can not legally stay in the UK for that long without a visa . Where this gets messy is what your status is within the UK if you enter using a foreign passport . It could be claimed that you are in the UK as a visiting US citizen , and thus benefits such as government health care/etc might not be available to you . Realistically the probability of this being an issue are low , but possible ...
end question
start question
Can I use Hong Kong dollars in Guangzhou ?
Generally no . HK$ in Hong Kong . RMB in China . However , there are plenty of ATMs where your normal bank card should be able to get you cash at a reasonable rate . Some banks have " no-fee " agreements with partner banks in China . For me that 's Westpac in AUS and China Construction Bank in mainland China .
You can <URL> itself . There 's a baggage storage facility at Level 3 , Terminal 2 . At 10 HKD / hour , it 's quite inexpensive too ! Here 's something you should consider though : peak time traffic is bad in Hong Kong and if you plan to reach your host 's house after 5pm , it might take you 1-2 hours by taxi to reach your destination . My suggestion would be relax at the airport - there 's <URL> - then take HKIA Express train to the city ; the journey is comfortable as there 's enough space on the airport express to bring luggage and you 'll get into the city faster . After that , it 's your choice whether you want to continue travelling on Hong Kong MTR or take a taxi .
Yes , assuming they issue you the Known Traveler Number ( KTN ) before you fly , you can add it to your reservation . As long as it 's at least 72 hours ( 3 days ) before the time of your flight , you can add the KTN to your reservation via Delta 's website . After that , you 'll need to call or visit an agent at the check-in desk . To do it on Delta 's website , go to the " Trip Details " page for your reservation ( accessible through " My Trips " from the Delta.com homepage ) and scroll down to the " SECURE FLIGHT PASSENGER &amp; CONTACT INFORMATION " section . If it 's not already expanded , click the " Open " button on this section to load it . <URL> Secure Flight Data Section of Delta.com Trip Details Page Here , you can enter your KTN in the " Known Traveler Number " field and click " Save " to add it to your reservation . And , of course , make sure that your gender and Date of Birth is correct , too . Note that upon subsequent visits to this page , the information for the passenger whose Delta account is currently logged in will be displayed , but the fields will appear blank for other passengers in the same reservation , even if the secure flight data has already been saved for those passengers . You can still enter in new information for other passengers , but the existing data for them will not be displayed for privacy reasons .
Yes you can , my wife recently applied for a tourist visa so she selected the B2 category , but when she eventually got the visa , it was a B1/B2 visa . The way its worded , it seems you can only use B2 for personal travel , but thats not the case .
HSBC , then Credit Cards , then Banks There 's over 10 % difference between the best ( HSBC ) and the worst ( Travelex ) , so doing your homework can earn you several more cervezas ! This was a relatively small sample size , so if you want to be absolutely sure , call your own banks and credit cards . Best : Credit Cards A ) Credit Card Payments Each of the following includes a 2.5 % exchange fee MXN$ 4914 from RBC Infinite Avion Visa MXN$ 4913 from BMO Airmiles Mastercard MXN$ 4813 from Platinum Airmiles Amex B ) Credit Card ATM Withdrawals Each of the following includes a per-transaction fee and ignores cash advance interest charges MXN$ 4870 from BMO Airmiles Mastercard ( C$ 3.50 fee ) MXN$ 4853 from RBC Infinite Avion Visa ( C$ 5.00 fee ) MXN$ 4780 from Platinum Airmiles Amex ( C$ 2.75 fee ) Second Best : Canadian Banks Amounts listed are for in-person currency purchases in Canadian bank branches for customers of the bank . There may be extra charges if you are not a customer of these banks or if you withdraw MXN using an ATM in Mexico . MXN$ 4967 from <URL> MXN$ 4768 and a limit of C$ 500 if non-customer ( 4 % fee ) MXN$ 4689 from <URL> MXN$ 4673 from <URL> No additional fees if Scotiabank or <URL> customer using a <URL> ! MXN$ 4667 from <URL> Worst : Canadian Currency Counters MXN$ 4674 from <URL> Includes $ 3.50 transaction fee . MXN$ 4653 from <URL> MXN$ 4444 from <URL> Actual Value : Current Exchange Rate <URL> tells me that C$ 400 is currently worth MXN$ 4985 . Note : In my answer , I use specific dollar amounts . These amounts were accurate as of April 16-17 , 2015 , but obviously exchange rates fluctuate . More important than the specific dollar amounts is the differences between these methods , so even if the numbers are obsolete the answer to the question ( the best way to convert these currencies ) wo n't change .
As far as I know Oyster card is only valid in London . They are trying to extend it to neighbouring towns ( I think at some point you will be able to use it on train services to get to some of the airports ) , but definitely it does n't work in Leeds . Note that if you have a contactless credit/debit card , you can use this one instead . There are daily caps on all travel in London which are the same as a daily ticket , and I think at least at the beginning there was a weekly cap . More details : <URL>
All you need is the HK SAR passport . The page is worded that way because they ca n't say " nationals of Hong Kong " : Hong Kong is a part of China , so there are no citizens of Hong Kong , only <URL> . And they also ca n't say " nationals of China " , because that would give visa-free access to everybody in China . So they say " permanent residents of Hong Kong SAR " , and how do you demonstrate that you are one ? By being a " holder of the Hong Kong SAR passport " . Where you actually live is irrelevant . Your question also implies that residency of Hong Kong alone is enough to get visa-free access to Russia , but this is not the case ; for example , <URL> .
There are none left after the ones in Kai Tak and Diamond Coast closed in Kong Kong . you will have to go to China or Macao . In <URL> there is one the Cotai strip behind the golf court . I have however never been there and could not find an email/website either . There are two in Zuhai : The <URL> ( used by the HK GoCart club ) and a kart track on the <URL> , with their own <URL> . You might want to ask the HK club for further info : <URL> Chances are however , that you will not get very far with English on either of them .
You should encounter absolutely no problems . Hong Kong immigration are both efficient and pleasant . I have resided in Hong Kong for over 9 years and hold permanent residency . We receive both family and business visitors who regularly tour the surrounding region . Recently a colleague holding a Thai passport entered HK on the 4 June , left for Dubai on 5 June , returned on 19 June , left for Macau on 24 June returned to HK on 25 June and departed HK yesterday . They did not hold a visa , and at no point were they questioned or challenged as to their purpose of visit and/or frequency of entry/exit . Upon each entry you will be granted the amount of visa free days applicable to your passport . These can be chained together and there is no limit on the total number of days you can stay in one year , as long as you always exit and re-enter before each visa free period expires , and do not take paid employment or engage in other activities prohibited by your tourist status . My only advice would be to stick to one passport .
The <URL> cube series seems to be just what I am looking for . Still a packing cube design for easy access , but non-mesh for liquid protection . On top of that , it is translucent to allow cursory inventorying , and is supposed to be especially light . I 'll let you all know how my purchase fares .
From <URL> NZ At time of rental , the renter must present a full valid driver 's licence issued from their country of residence that has been held for a minimum of one year . If the licence is not in English , then an International Driver 's Licence is also required . New Zealand law requires you to carry your driver 's licence with you whenever you are driving . Renters from China can use a China Notarial Certificate ( CNC ) which is used in place of an International Driving Permit , however their original Chinese licence MUST accompany the driver as well as the CNC . Sadly the page was dynamic but i found the information through the following method : Reservations - > Qualifications &amp; Requirements - > EnterAiportCode : " AKL " - > ChoseTopic : " Drivers Liscence " - > Go <URL> ( New Zealand Transport Association ) * A current and valid overseas driver licence means that your licence allows you to legally drive in your own country . If you are disqualified from driving or your licence is currently suspended , expired or revoked , then you are not allowed to drive in New Zealand . ) The Keyword there is " valid " my understanding is it is not a valid licence without both parts . However find information from the DVLA on this matter is tricky . The <URL> has the same statement as both the NZTA and Hertz .
The important thing to do , is to know what flag your card belongs . What I realized in my trips was the ATM machines do n't cares about the bank or country of your card . The flag is important . If the flag belongs to Visa or Mastercard , being assured that even most of ATM Machines will accept this . This is important also to discover if the bank that has emitted your card has agreement with other banks around the world . This implies on : if you ca n't withdraw your money on any in ATM Machine , you can do it on a bank that has agreement with yours . But do n't carry all your money in your card . For you own safe , it 's important to carry some amount in cash . That prevent you both in case of lost of your card and in case of you ca n't withdraw your money in an ATM machine . I hope this can help you .
Assuming you are flying through on the same airline or partner airlines and your bags are checked through , then no visa needed . ( CZ-CZ or CZ-KE ) If by chance you are changing carriers / alliances , you need to ask the airline originating in New York if they can check your bags through to the connecting airline . If the bags can not be checked through you will need a transit permit go claim your bags and then check them in for your next flight .
While sites like Wikitravel do n't seem to help too much in this case , fortunately we can look at anecdotal evidence and quotes on VirtualTourist <URL> like <URL> . Quotes from these pages for a selection of clubs : " Dress Code : No jeans or sneakers/trainers , must be very fashionable . " " Dress Code : No Jeans , shorts , or flip flops !!!! " " Dress Code : Just do n't look like a COPLETE MUPPET !! " ( sic ) " Dress Code : Dress to kill , place is Ultra HIP !!!!! " " Dress Code : Casual Chic , everyone 's an expat or a chuppie ( chinese yuppie ) over here . " " Dress Code : Dress like a rich hobbit . The place here is small and the food/drinks come at a price . " " Dress Code : Trendy and stylish " " Dress Code : I dont know that there is a dress code but we did have proper evening attire on and fit right in . " " Dress Code : Your with the movers and shakers of the Hong Kong world !!!!! Dress to Impress is the word !!!!! " " Dress Code : Cool lounge wear - jeans are fine , flip flops are not noticeable but dress cool " So it sounds like for a lot of them , smart-casual is the plan , and given there 's some suggestion of style and smartening-up , personally I 'd pack town shoes .
Very , very easy . Any bank in NZ will happily exchange those for you , or indeed as you step off the plane , there are several currency exchange places at all the international airports . Be aware that the airports can sometimes offer worse rates than banks in town - but it depends how much you 're exchanging of course , as to whether bothering with the effort is worthwhile .
There are a number of <URL> , via Tianjin or Qingdao . Both South Korea and China have a well-connected railway network , so it should n't be a problem to travel onward by train from the arrival point in China to Hong Kong . For what it 's worth , <URL> . South Korea to Hong Kong is quite far , so I would be surprised if there was any direct ferry . One might hope to travel via Taiwan , but unfortunately , <URL> . However , see <URL> and <URL> for more information .
If you only enter mainland China once , the single entry Chinese visa is enough . EU national does n't need a visa to enter HK or Taiwan , which are , despite PRC official beliefs , not Chinese countries from a travel standpoint . They have their own visa policies , citizens of those nations have a unique passport , etc. . You will not be able to enter Shenzhen using the same visa as before , you will need to acquire another . You can get a 5 day Zhenzhen only visa .
Bring whatever suits you best . If you live in the Euro area there is no point in converting Euros into Dollars to convert them later into Won . You will loose twice from the exchange . Euros can as easily be exchanged into Wons as Dollars can be . Buying Won in Europe can be cumbersome and is not worth the effort . Credit cards ( MasterCard and Visa ) are also widely accepted . You can even use them to withdraw money from automated teller machines ( ATM ) . I usually bring a bunch of Euros , and exchange them progressively into Won . And I use my credit card intensively . This way , I end up using all my Wons and go home with some Euros in my pocket . But there are alternative valuable strategies .
With the exception of some hotels , some high-end ( tourist-focused ) retail , and many shops at the airport , the only currency used is Turkish Lira . Anywhere that does accept other currencies will do it at a relatively poor exchange rate , so even where it 's possible , I would n't recommend it . However Money Changers are pretty much omnipresent in Istanbul - at least in the tourist focused areas . It 's basically impossible to turn around and not see more than one . These will happily change your Euro or US Dollars into Turkish Lira . Be careful when changing money as there are some scams . For example , when I was there a few weeks ago the exchange rate was around 2.44 Lira to the US$ , however one money changer I noticed was offering 2.244 , presumably hoping people would n't notice the difference ...
I 'd certainly submit that document . It might not be a government/airline , but it 's some evidence with your name on it indicating where and when you were . The suggested documents are useful because they 're common , accurate and hard to forge . They 're also often available . However , many people ( most ? ) do n't keep boarding passes , and in that case emails and bookings from hostels/hotels might suffice as well . It 's to provide reasonable indication - it 's not a court case ( yet ) and as such , providing what evidence you have , and a supplementary note if you feel it would help is always a good idea . In my experience , more information is better than gaps - gaps or missing info raises questions . If you have a document that answers those questions , that 's better for all involved .
end question
start question
Are you allowed to take pictures inside the Tomb of Ramesses ?
<URL> says Photography is no longer allowed in the tombs . Searching <URL> also indicates this being the case . Another <URL> which even mentions that in Saqqara you can bribe the guards with a few pounds only says But they all pale compared with Ramses VI , which is 50 EP by itself . RIPOFF ALTER : no photos are allowed inside the tombs . Valley of the Kings is invariably a disappointment because there is very little to see , even less that is truly impressive , lots of tourists and no photography allowed .
Usually flight attendants assigned on first and business classes make a quick head count after boarding is done . You can pass this if the class is almost full . In addition to that there are some techniques used to make sure that only people with the right boarding passes sit there , that 's why there is always flight attendants in first and business classes during the boarding time . You might think they are there to help you sit or to help you with your jacket , that 's true but they are also there to check your boarding pass either by asking you directly or by looking at it while it 's in your hand ( many airlines have different boarding pass colors for different classes ) . Also in many airlines flight attendants are asked to check the passengers names before serving to make them feel welcomed , if your name is not in the seat plan then you are busted . Out of personal experience as a cabin crew , with some luck there is somehow a chance of succeeding in sneaking into first or business class even with all what 's mentioned above , especially in big planes and when first/business class is almost full . What are the consequences ? well , the maximum would be paying the difference between economy and first or business class and big embarrassment . Again , out of personal experience passengers always say that they thought this is their seat ( AKA playing dumb ) and we can not do anything other than sending them back to their original seat or sometimes leave them continue . Finally , if the same door is used to board passengers from all classes then your chances are higher and you playing dumb if they catch you will be more acceptable .
Munich native again . Of course all tents serve typical Bavarian food . The food can be roughly divided into two categories : warm dishes and proper starters/desserts as served in any Bavarian restaurant and Brotzeit , a German/Bavarian classic consisting of bread or Brezn ( pretzel ) with various spreads , hearty toppings and often accompanied by some kind of radish . Many tents serve special dishes matching their motto . Such as different Ox dishes in the Ochsenbraterei , Steckerlfisch ( fish on a stick ) at Fischers Vroni , grilled ducks at the Entenbraterei and Knödel ( dunmplings ) at the Knödelei . Just to mention some of them . Besides those special dishes you should always get Hendl ( grilled chicken ) and Schweinsbraten ( roast pork ) as warm dishes . Prices vary by time of day : there are special deals for lunch , while dinner is certainly more expensive . For lunch you can calculate with deals starting at about 10 $ while warm dinner ranges from 15 to 25 Euros . Brotzeit is also priced around 10 $ . Of course the sky is the limit and you 'll also find dishes on the menu with significant higher prices . All tents do also serve vegetarian dishes often priced between 10 and 15 Euros . But the real Schmankerl ( delicacies ) are typically not vegetarian . You might instead want to try a sweet course as a main dish . The Austrian influence is strong in this area and results in great dishes . Some menus from last year can be found here ( not all containig prices and none in English ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> And yes , the beer price has surpassed the 10 $ barrier . A Bediengeld ( the waitress share ) is already included , but additional tipping is still expected !
Let me start by saying that over the past few years I 've collected over $ 3000 in airline vouchers , plus a few hotel and meal vouchers , from volunteering for oversold flights . Unfortunately the specific questions you 've asked are hard to answer , as they vary between airlines , and often even individual airports/staff . In general all airlines will announce that they are looking for volunteers at the gate . Depending on factors such as how many people they are oversold they may start announcing this an hour or so before the flight , or they may only do it closer to the departure time . In addition , some airlines will offer to add you to the volunteer list during check-in , especially when using an airport kiosk to check-in . There 's also nothing to stop you simply going and asking - especially if it 's an airline where you can view the seat-map and see that the majority/all of the seats are taken . Although the seat-map is n't necessarily a good indication of how busy the flight it , it can still give a good idea , especially if the flight is full . I 've been bumped off several flights where they never announced that they were looking for volunteers - I got in before they had a need to announce it ! As far as compensation , it varies a lot depending on the airline . There are NO regulations on what they must offer for volunteered denied boarding , but most US airlines will start at a few hundred dollars , and then go up from there depending on the length of the flight , the length of the delay ( e.g. , you should get more for taking a flight 24 hours later than one 2 hours later ) , and how desperate they are to get people to volunteer . Sometimes you can ask them to sweeten the offer by putting you in business/first class on the later flight , although doing this may end up with them offering you less compensation . The compensation they offer will almost always be in the form of vouchers for future travel - not cash ! Sometimes there will be limitations to these vouchers ( the most common being that you often ca n't combine multiple sets of vouchers to use on a single flight ) . Frequent Flyer status sometimes help - again it depends on the airline and the specific staff . Even when the airline does n't have a specific policy around status , some gate agents will prefer to " bump " someone with higher status - partially because they see it as a benefit ( they are paying you , after all ! ) , but also because bumping a frequent traveler is likely to result in less problems . Many airline/staff will also give preference to people travelling without checked-in luggage . If you do have luggage checked , then depending on country and airline policies , it 's possible that your bags will travel on your original flight , which means they might sit around in the destination airport for some time before you arrive . I once volunteered off a flight to Miami and instead flew to Fort Lauderdale ( about 20 miles away ) , and then had to drive to Miami to pickup my luggage as they had n't been able to change it to the new flight . There are some big disadvantages to " volunteering " . Frequently you will be told to remain in the gate area during boarding in case they need you , only to be told that they do n't need you as another passenger did n't show up . You then end up being the last person to board , which may result in trouble finding overhead space , etc. . If you do get moved to a later flight , there 's a good chance you 'll end up finding yourself in a middle seat given how late you were booked onto that flight . Occasionally you can hit agents who make mistakes when rebooking you onto the new flight ( especially as they are normally busy with boarding your existing flight/etc ) , and find when you get to your new flight that you do n't actually have a confirmed booking on it ! Personally over the past few years I 've volunteered to be bumped dozens of times , and been successful about 8-10 times , including one occasion where I " double-bumped " as the flight they put me on after the first bump was also overbooked !! On some of those occasions I 've had replacement flights that landed a few minutes after my original flight , and on other occasions it 's been the next day ( with a hotel provided ) . Sometimes I 've ended up at the same airport I was supposed to go to , and sometimes to alternate airports ( Miami v 's Fort Lauderdale , San Francisco v 's San Jose ) . I 've had compensation of everywhere between $ 200 and $ 600 , and on occasion I 've received First class on the replacement flights - although on at least one occasion I 've also given up a first class seat and ended up in economy on a later flight !
I would recommend summer . The weather is warm but not too hot , less than in Italy or Japan . See this minimum/maximum graph in <URL> ( in Celsius , 25 ° C = 77 ° F ) : During summer touristic places are open everywhere , even in the South , the warmer the better . During summer people working in Paris leave for the South , but Paris still has a lot of activities , even more than during other seasons . Most festivals happen during summer , especially countryside ones ( <URL> ) . Other seasons can be rainy but summer usually is not . See the low rain stats during July/August :
An exhibit featuring the official high-fidelity replica , <URL> ( called Explorer when it was in Florida ) , atop the 747 shuttle carrier aircraft , is currently under construction <URL> at the Johnson Space Center in Houston . The <URL> states that Guests can take the elevator to the top to first enter the Independence using a timed-ticketing system . The first stop is be the flight deck , where guests can see how the astronauts piloted the orbiter through missions . One floor down , guests will see how cramped living conditions were on the mid-deck and walk out into the payload bay to see an actual flown artifact ... . Down one more level , guests enter shuttle carrier aircraft NASA 905 , the largest artifact from the Space Shuttle Program on display . Your next best bet is the brand-new <URL> at the National Museum of the U.S. Air Force near Dayton , Ohio , which features the Crew Compartment Trainer , a life-sized mockup . The exhibit " allows visitors to experience the size and shape of an actual space shuttle orbiter by entering the payload bay and looking into the flight deck and mid-deck levels . " My third suggestion would be the <URL> on display at the Museum of Flight in Seattle , Washington . It does not have the wings , but as its name indicates is a full-sized mockup of the fuselage that was used for astronaut training purposes . <URL> are available for a fee on weekends and public holidays . Other simulators are in the possession of the <URL> in North Florida , the Adler Planetarium in Chicago , and as noted by Kate Gregory , Texas A&amp;M University ; however , it is not clear as of February 2016 if any of these are accessible to the public . Shuttle Inspiration , a life-sized mockup of wood and plastic built by Rockwell in 1972 for its official proposal to build the shuttle , is now owned by the City of Downey , California . There are <URL> around it , but <URL> indicate it is being restored in preparation for a tour . I remember climbing on it on a science day for the Boy Scouts way back in the 1980s ; it gives you a sense of its size and the scale of the crew compartments , but of course there would n't be any genuine artifacts , making it just slightly better than various other independently created replicas that seem to be floating around . The <URL> , as you know , can not be entered by the public : Shuttle Enterprise at the Intrepid Sea , Air &amp; Space Museum in New York . Shuttle Discovery at the Udvar-Hazy Center of the National Air and Space Museum near Dulles , Virginia Shuttle Endeavour at the California Science Center in Los Angeles . Shuttle Atlantis at the Kennedy Space Center Visitor 's Complex in Florida
Some rules explained here ( in French ) : <URL> And a version in English : <URL> It depends on which fare you have paid when booking your ticket . TGV are in the category Trains à réservation obligatoire , that 's why there 's a car/seat number . Concerning your experience , either you had a Tarif Pro ticket , either you were lucky . Because with all other tickets , you either can not use it in another train ( Prem 's ) or have a fee to pay to change train .
Because it 's difficult to tell apart a bottle full water from a bottle full of a chemical like hydrogen peroxide that could be used to make liquid explosives . There was <URL> that apparently tried this in 2006 , and because " passenger convenience " will always lose out to " bureaucratic ass-covering " when it comes to security theater , <URL> . ( Unless they 're under 100ml , so yes , you can take a 100ml bottle of water on board ... if you can find one ! ) In Japan , they 've already got <URL> . These are increasingly being adopted by other countries , and once they 're widespread enough , the liquid silliness will hopefully end . Note that while you ca n't take a partly or completely filled > 100ml water bottle through security , it 's perfectly fine to take an empty bottle through security , and fill it up before you board the plane . Or you can buy a bottle once you 've passed security .
RATP trip planner <URL> at 10 o'clock , november 28th , 2013 . The route is : <URL> is about 1km south-east from Château de Versailles . To <URL> , <URL> :
Travelers leaving or entering the U.S. with more than $ 10,000 ( in any form , that includes cash or checks ) are required to declare it by filling out a Report of International Transportation of Currency or Monetary Instruments ( <URL> ) . This applies even if you are passing through the U.S. in transit to other countries . Source : <URL>
If I understand the information from <URL> correctly : Each incoming passenger can bring 500,000 IRR in local currency and an unlimited amount of foreign currency . Each outgoing passenger can bring 500,000 IRR in local currency and $ 5,000 USD or equivalent in foreign currency . Since 500,000 rials is only about $ 20 USD , you will need to bring enough foreign cash to cover the costs for the entire stay . Due to the US trade embargo on Iran , it is neither possible to use foreign credit or debit cards for cash withdrawals or payments nor to cash traveler 's cheques . It is not quite clear if it is better to bring euros or US dollars . At least in larger cities , it should be possible to exchange both currencies without much hassle in official exchange offices or in a bank . A friend of mine visited Iran last year and said that some shops ( if they accepted foreign currency at all ) only accepted either euros or dollars . <URL> writes however , that the government encourages banks to " turn away " from the US dollar , so that it might be preferred to bring euros instead . Also consider that the highest value Iranian banknote ( 100,000 rials ) is only worth about $ 4 USD . If you are travelling outside the regular tourist routes , it might be advisable to exchange enough local currency to cope , even if you do n't find an exchange office for a few days . So be prepared to carry quite a few bank notes around .
While growing up I had to turn on the heater before taking a shower and sometimes when its getting late , you really do n't have time to do that . Here 's some advice which might help . I 'm going to go ahead and assume that any hot water source is unavailable and you are in a frame of mind where the water is too cold !!! Step 1 - Making Peace with the Cold Water Okay so you do n't like cold water , the best way to make peace with it is to convince yourself that it 's not too cold . It 's like entering a cold swimming pool , if you dip your feet in it for a while , it 'll be easier for you to get in . When you wake up in the morning , your body temperature feels lower because you have n't had breakfast yet , that 's a good thing because it makes it easier to ease into the seemingly freakish cold water . If you happen to have a shower , then turn the shower on and let it gradually touch your feet first , followed by your hands . Keep the water running and slowly ease in from the extremities of your body all the way to your face . You face is the part which you 'll dread the most , so save it till the end after you feel like the body temperature going down . If you happen to have a jug and a bucket of water , follow the swimming pool strategy . Fill in the bucket halfway and dip your feet and hands in it . Then slowly start pouring down the cold water on your hands and proceed . One additional thing which might help is to have a towel on you . A towel which you could dip in the water and squeeze out/rub on your body will help . Step 2 - Taking the Leap of Faith You have to remember , practice makes a man perfect ! Doing it the first time is much harder than doing it the Nth time . After cooling down your body for a few minutes , hold your breath and step into the shower , as soon as you get into it , do n't chicken out ! The leap is the hardest , after it , it gets exponentially easier . Same goes with a bucket of water and jug , when you 're ready , repeatedly take a lot of water from the bucket and pour it over yourself . You start doing it , do n't stop ! Water in which you were dipping your hands or feet it will actually be warmer and make it a bit easier , which is why I feel using a bucket and jug is easier with cold water . Step 3 - Finish as soon as possible Remember , once you get into it , there 's no coming back , there 's no point doing the whole procedure from scratch again . So , keep pouring that cold water over you , it gets much easier when you keep doing it . Pause for short breaks only when you need to use soap or shampoo . Wash your body in little sections , torso at once , feet at once , hands at once etc. . After you 're done , get a fresh towel and hug yourself tight with it . I 've done the exact procedure I mentioned a several hundred times in my life quite comfortably , of course I like my hot water , but where there 's a will , there 's a way .
Nowhere . Even entering Ireland would require an ID with a photo on it ( and airlines flying there typically insist on passports ) . Edit : the comment is right , I was thinking of the ferries which do require some photo ID ( anecdotal evidence suggests , however , even a library card is enough ) . So yes , you can get to Ireland by driving in from Northern Ireland .
In my experience of travelling to the USA on an ESTA Visa from Europe you are asked you to write the address that you will be staying your first night in the USA , be it a hotel , friends house or family residence on the customs and border protection form . The immigration officer asks to see this form and stamps it . You are then let into the country and hand this form to an official before you exit the baggage hall . How much checking of that address they do , or even if it is recorded , I do not know . I get this address wrong most of the time anyway and I have never had any trouble . I imagine if this is left blank and you are asked and reply you do not know where you are staying then alarm bells will begin to ring for for the immigration officer . Even if you are travelling around America by rental car it would probably be best to have a pre-booked hotel for one night after a long haul flight anyway . Safety first !
I was thinking a long time on how to best answer this question . Despite the tininess of Liechtenstein I think it is nevertheless necessary to concentrate on one specific part . So I wrote three answers in one . The first for persons who are interested in cultural life , the second for people how focus on some sports and the last one for people who want to party ! ( Yes that 's possible in Liechtenstein ;) ) Cultural Activities If you 're interested in cultural activities I would start the time with an aperitif at the prince 's winery . This winery is called <URL> . Since the prince has bought the country in 1712 he owns some vineyards . The result you can try and buy at the Hofkellerei . The wines are widely known in the region and you can particularly get Pinot Noir and Chardonnay there . After testing some wines I would stroll around the old town of Vaduz . It is n't really big but you can see there some old houses . In the afternoon you can visit a famous art gallery called <URL> . There you can see modern and contemporary art and also some of the prince 's private collection . In the evening you can go to one of the best restaurants in Liechtenstein . The <URL> is n't really a budget solution , but it really offers good food . It is located just above the prince 's vineyard and it is his majesty restaurant . The Lonely Planet writes : " The garden terrace enjoys a wonderful perspective of the castle above , while the ancient , wood-lined interior is cosy in winter " . Party time If you 're looking for some partying I would make sure to visit on August , 15th , the national holiday of Liechtenstein . We 're celebrating then the birthday of the former prince that is not living anymore . In the morning you can go to visit the prince in the garden of his castle . This is n't as boring as it sounds since you get there free beer and wine . There will be enough , since the prince is n't poor . It is assumed that he owns more than 5 billions swiss francs . From lunch on there is a big public party in whole Vaduz . You can drink , eat , dance , talk , etc there and it lasts until early morning . As soon as it gets dark , there is another gift from the prince ;) A firework is started at the castle that can be seen from the whole valley and lasts for approximately 40 minutes . ( This pictures says more or less : Hail to God , the prince and the fatherland ! ) Sports If you 're a sportive guy I would recommend to do a daylong hike in the mountains and then go watch a soccer game in Vaduz . Start early in the morning in <URL> . There a really famous hike route starts that will you guide through sheer mountains along the border between Liechtenstein and Austria . Almost the whole path is built out of rock and a lot of steel ropes are necessary to make it save for hikers . You will also have to climb some ladders . At the end of the route you have the possibility to mount three sisters . No joke , the mountain is called three sisters ( Drei Schwestern in German ) and it is one of the most famous mountains in this region . Judging from the picture above it is not sure that you can easily access it , but if you 're free from giddiness it is n't a real problem . I added another picture to show you the situation on the path : If you 're interested in this tour , I can recommend a <URL> that describes a lot of mountain tours in the Alps . It is not only useful for Liechtenstein , but also for Switzerland , Germany and Austria . In the evening when you 're back in Vaduz , I would recommend to go to a soccer game . I would choose a game against a very famous opponent . <URL> , but from time to time there are some attractive opponents , e.g. Germany , Spain , Portugal or England . All past games can be found <URL> . The actual events will be posted on the <URL> of the Liechtenstein soccer association .
From the Ukrainian point of view , <URL> in 2014 . As a result , transport options have been restricted from both the Ukrainian and the Russian side . In addition , it is now necessary to have a Russian visa ( or visa-free passport ) in order to access the Crimean territory . Flights In September 2015 , all flights between Russia/Crimea and Ukraine <URL> . So it would take at least two transfers from Kiev in order to reach Crimea : Bus It 's possible to take a <URL> from Kiev to Sevastopol for ~ 40 $ , however foreigners ( as in , everyone except Ukrainians ) now require a <URL> to cross the Ukraine/Crimea border : On September , 16 , 2015 the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine passed the Resolution No 722 , amending the Procedure for entry to the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and exit from it regarding the entry to and exit from Crimea by foreign nationals , inter alia : Extract from the Para 3 of the Resolution : Foreign nationals can entry and exit from temporary occupied territory of Ukraine through special check points by presenting a passport and special permission issued by territorial body of State Migration Service of Ukraine or territorial body of Department for Migration Service of Ukraine in Novotroitsky or Genichesky district of Kherson oblast . This permission can only be issued to persons having relatives/property in Crimea or <URL> . Therefore this option is probably not reasonable for most travelers . On Foot The land border can be crossed on foot , but that option requires a special permission ( see the section above ) . Trains <URL> connect Ukraine to Crimea , however it 's possible to take a train to the Ukrainian border in the Kherson region . From the border region one could in theory cross on foot ( see the section above ) . Going from Crimea to Ukraine Unless you 've previously acquired the above-mentioned special permission and entered Crimea via Kherson , it 's impossible to cross into Ukraine from Crimea over land . The Ukrainian border guards could either deny you entry or arrest you for illegally entering the Ukrainian territory through Russia . Conclusion Flying via Moscow is probably the only feasible way for most tourists . Note that this option is technically illegal from the Ukrainian point of view , so I would avoid talking about Crimea to Ukrainian border guards in the future .
TL ; DR There are multiple factors involved with being able to drive in cold temperatures even with the onset of cold temperatures being fairly sudden 2-3 days notice . You should be looking at the following major components : Engine , Cabin , and Tires and looking at them separately and then there are additional subsystems and conditions that will make for an interesting conversation on its own so let 's begin : CABIN There are 2 important aspects in making sure that your cabin can provide you a comfortable ride : Weather stripping - There are kits that are being sold in auto stores and online that will provide better seals for your cabin during winter . Cold temperatures especially on the spectrum on -25 to -40 C tend to make rubber harder and more brittle and thus when you open the doors and closing them you can break those down and make holes in insulation making it more difficult for you to drive when you have to put on thick gloves and hat and shearling or similar to make sure you stay comfortable ( sorta ) . Heater - Make sure it works ! Cars like older <URL> had to have separate heaters because of the rear mounted engine and that heater ( as it turned out ) was basically a pilot light fed by gasoline from the tank heating the air that was pushed into the cabin . If this thing went out ... Well you get the idea . Windows - In addition to making sure that mounting weather stripping is up to par you will have to look whether or not your glass especially on the Windshield is good . I have personally had issues in one of the cars I owned when I had to defog the the windshield it cracked because of the temperature difference between inside and outside . Thankfully it was only a crack running along the bottom so I could still drive but a spiderweb on your windshield could pose a problem . This is usually not a problem for the newer cars with <URL> installed by the manufacturers but it could be a concern for older ones and for cars that had to have any of the glass replaced , which could be done by the outside parties . ENGINE There are several subsystems that will need to be looked at for it to function properly so let 's try : Battery The battery is important not just to start the car but also to make sure that your electrical systems run . A shorted out battery will stop your electrical systems from running . In addition to that the colder temperatures slow down the chemical reaction in the battery thus robbing it from power needed to start your car , so if the battery is 3 years or less and your car will only stay in the cold not for an extended period you can safely leave it in the car and you should be OK to start the car after . If not I would suggest removing it and keeping it indoors and reinstalling before you need to use it . Granted of course that you can remove it , some times it 's not that easy especially with modern cars that only have electronic keys . So if you have a batter that is 3 + years old it might be a good idea to replace it . Engine Block and Motor Oil <URL> needs to stay liquid and be able to be pumped into the engine when it starts so Winter viscosity needs to be appropriate . For the longest time in the US it was fairly standard to have cars with <URL> grade motor oil and mechanics looked at you funny when you requested 5W or even 0W oil which performs better at lower temperatures and helps to prevent your engine from seizing because oil pump ca n't put the what became of motor oil at those temperatures into the engine to lubricate the moving parts . <URL> also helps to be heated up using <URL> when the car is parked since it provides heat to the block keeping fuel , oil , and coolant at temperatures above freezing so that engine can start better . This usually comes as standard or optional equipement on trucks with large diesel engines to keep the fuel from <URL> but that 's next . Fuel and Fuel System There are different precautions that may need to be taken for gasoline vs. diesel fuel . Diesel Fuel because of generally higher viscosity or presence of bio components at <URL> so there is usually a heater for the fuel tank and fuel lines that is built in to the car . Whether or not it is hooked up to the <URL> that may come with the car remains to be seen but usually is . Some diesel engines provide <URL> to heat up the block somewhat to help with the start . Gasoline engines for the most part do n't have the problems with gelling fuels and freezing which happens around -50 C , however , modern gasolines have additives like Ethanol which freeze at higher temperatures , as well as potentially water that may have been mixed in with the gasoline , that actually can clog the fuel pump and fuel line ( I know of several manufacturer 's recalls , most notably Nissan Altima recently ) Cooling System The <URL> in the cooling system depending on the temperature can contain water and freeze in the pipes or radiator or in the water pump ( just watched my friend 's Porsche blow an engine due to this ) . So if you
There is an article regarding this subject in <URL> . The basic reason is safety in case of a crash or other impact : Seat in the upright position is locked and does n't present an issue if there is an impact During the <URL> back in 1988 it was found that bracing in the upright position is safer then in reclined . Reclined seats make it more difficult to evacuate passengers from rows immediately following you . So during the most dangerous times in flight ( take-off and landing ) it is required from you be a little safety minded .
No , in the specific case of <URL> as jpatokal has already noted , but also , no in general . Accrual of points in multiple programs is expressly prohibited by most programs in the T&amp;C , not just airlines but for frequent dining programs ( you can have multiple credit cards for one program , but a max of one program per credit card ) and rental car and hotel partnerships ( sometimes you can get both car/hotel points and airline points , but only one one partner airline ) . The very <URL> runs against double-dipping . The obvious and original purpose of frequent flyer miles was to encourage people to choose one particular airline over its competitors . So , if you could double-dip -- or triple-dip , or 30-dip -- you 'd no longer have an incentive to fly a particular airline . This is the most fundamental reason why airlines have no interest in allowing accrual to multiple programs . But today , frequent flyer miles are also a huge profit center for airlines -- one of which they must be highly protective . Miles are not " free " even though they seem like a sort of fiat currency that airlines could " print " at will . The airline has no direct interest in where you do your banking or grocery shopping ; none of that money makes it into their coffers . But your bank and your supermarket care , and because a significant number of their customers like miles , they will purchase miles from the airlines to give to their customers as an incentive . During the difficult early 2000s , FFPs were often the only profitable part of an airline 's business , and in a large program contribute hundreds of millions of dollars to the bottom line : even money-bleeding Qantas reported a <URL> in its frequent flyer program last year . This is why airlines are so deeply in bed with their credit card partners -- Delta with American Express , United with Chase , and so on . When Air Canada 's Aeroplan was spun off into a separate company , it reported that <URL> , with only 27 % from Air Canada ( mostly flights ) ! Second , your program has a tremendous amount of information about you that is valuable to marketers -- where you travel to , what kind of tickets you buy at what prices and when you book them , what seasons you will be in different cities , and so on . This has boosted the valuations of FFPs far above what would be expected based on purely revenue-based pricing . When you consider this , there is no scenario in which double-dipping of miles would be profitable to any party except the passenger -- and who has already given the airlines money in exchange for miles in a single program . Your fare has gone to Alaska Airlines , and you requested BA miles for them . Alaska purchases miles from BA and awards them to you . To request AA miles , Alaska would need to purchase and track miles from AA as well . That might make you and a lot of other people happy , but it would annoy BA and AA , who would be jealous of each over over your business , and it would annoy AS , which would incur additional costs because the benefit would probably not increase revenue enough to offset the administration costs and the annoyance of your partners . This is also why it is so difficult to change credit after the fact . If you decided you wanted AA credit instead of BA , you 'd need to ask BA to cancel their credit , and recognize those miles as still available to AS . Then you would ask AS to credit the flight from their stash of AA miles instead . You can see that such changes would incur accounting and other processing costs , and because credits and transfers are generally done in batches/sweeps instead of real time , there is a risk that customers would redeem miles while they were in the midst of being moved from one account to another . Double-dipping scenarios Now , there are a handful of scenarios where you can get away with double-dipping in airline programs , though it 's usually something which seems like double-dipping , but is n't actually . Rebooking on a non-partner airline For example , suppose you have purchased a ticket to fly on Delta , but due to mechanical problems , they are unable to fly you to your connection , and arrange for you to fly on American instead . You give your American AAdvantage number when boarding the AA flight , and receive AA credit for it , but you can also write to Delta and request original routing credit , which they will often give as a customer service gesture . This wo n't work with airlines who are partners , because they will see the credit in each other 's systems and deny the double-dip . If your Asiana flight from San Francisco to Seoul is overbooked , and they put you on the next flight out on United , you wo n't be able to request both Asiana and United credit for it . Non-mileage airline programs Singapore Airlines has two programs : <URL> and the <URL> . KrisFlyer is a traditional frequent flyer program , whereas PPS is a Singapore Airlines-only recognition ( no Star Alliance benefits or equivalent ) for high-revenue flyers . So , if you buy a lot of business - and first-class ti
In the strictest sense : Yes , that works1 . ( But you should be well-prepared for a discussion with the police , just in case ) Since you mention going to Freiburg , we 're talking specifically about Germany , and the relevant applicable laws are § 20 FZV and § 3/13 KraftStG . The first one states that it is legal to temporarily use a foreign car with a valid foreign registration . The second one exempts you from having to pay tax . There are several important preconditions to fulfill : Temporarily means less than one year . For your example , that 's the case . The vehicle must not be designated to be regularly registered in Germany . In non-gibberish , this means that trips must usually start abroad , i.e. the car must have it " home base " abroad . It 's the car that matters , not you . For a car rented in Basel , that 's arguably the case . You must not transport goods or people for profit ( or else the tax exemption is void ) . The car must be properly registered and have an insurance , with papers in German . No issue when renting in Basel . The car must be " safe for traffic " . Pretty much guaranteed in your case , too . 1Let 's be more careful and say : " should work " , because you never know . Police sometimes has an odd opinion , even when you are perfectly right , so you can not ever be sure . For example , depending on whom you encounter , they can be very inventive for giving out fines on purely imaginary regulations , such as when your first aid kit has no expiry date or the date is expired ( there 's no law requiring that ) , or if you drive with perfectly legal daylight ilumination , which the particular police man does n't recognize as such .
end question
start question
Is it mandatory to travel to Canada on the exact dates specified in the visa ?
I said this in a comment , but now I 've got a proper citation , so here 's a proper answer . Canadian visas ( like every other visa I 'm familiar with ) do indeed have an expiration date . This is the date by which you must travel to Canada to seek entry . As you note in your comment , the duration of stay is not affected by the expiration of the visa . The expiry date on the TRV is the date by which the visa must be used to seek admission into Canada . If the visa is not used on or before that date , it ceases to be valid . " TRV " means " Temporary resident visa " Source : <URL>
I spent a few months in South America , starting in Buenos Aires with limited Spanish skills . I found it hard , trying to use my broken Spanish . I then asked my brother who had been there a few months earlier how he managed , as he had zero Spanish knowledge . " I just spoke English " was his reply . Granted , he mainly did the big tourist spots - Buenos Aires , Iguazu etc , but it shows you do n't have to have any Spanish to get by . I was merely struggling because I was trying to speak Spanish , but in many of the main tourist spots , hostels , bus stations there 's always someone willing to help - if not a local , another traveller :-) Short answer : you 'll be fine , and will learn more Spanish as you go . You quickly work out what few words are really important , and a smile and politeness goes a long way .
Mileage varies related to the traveler 's nationality , but I entered Armenia from Georgia just three weeks ago and got a 6 euro visa at the border without any problems . I was traveling on a Dutch passport . Danes and Germans crossing the border at the same time as me also easily got their visa at the border for the low price of 6 euros . The visa fee was payable in Armenian currency only . No ATMs were available , but a change machine was . I was asked how long i wanted to stay , said about two weeks and got 20 days . I feel I could have gotten longer if I 'd ask . The crossing might have been at Bagramashen , but I 'm not totally sure anymore . I took a regular marshrutka from Tbilisi train station to Yerevan .
As @Dirty - flow said , sleeping in the car is allowed , but you should not sleep in the driver 's seat etc. if you are drunk , to omit being fined for drunk driving . There are many areas , especially inside of the " Mittlerer Ring " , where parking is restricted ( residents only or parking ticket , see <URL> or <URL> ) . I 'd suggest to park somewhere in the outskirts , near a <URL> station , and use public transport . <URL> , for example , has a nice lake you can swim in ( " Erholungsgebiet Heimstettener See " ) . Update : Sleeping in a caravan in the city of Munich is forbidden : <URL> ( They <URL> parking at the Messe in Riem , 35 Eur per night . ) Feldkirchen should be OK . Also note : You need a <URL> for your car ( " Umweltplakette " ) if you want to drive inside of " Mittlerer Ring " .
From experience , it comes down to the decision on the day by the person processing your application . In essence , they 're looking for flags , problems or reasons NOT to grant your application . Your job is to plug those holes , answer questions and make it as smooth as possible . In this case , the ' flag ' is going to be ' needs three years tax returns , only has two ' . So they 'll look for a reason validating this . If you have added a document ( single page ) stating that you 've only been working two years , and have provided all tax returns from your entire work history , that should satisfy them that there 's 1 ) nothing missing , 2 ) nothing being hidden and 3 ) the ' question ' of the missing tax year has been answered . Short version : document any gap / discrepancy in your application . It 's very hard to have ' too much ' documentation .
According to <URL> ( in Dutch ) the <URL> , you 're required to have a warning triangle and a safety vest . While a fire extinguisher and first aid kit are only required for Belgian drivers , they still recommend taking them as well . Another <URL> says that local police does not always take into account that some rules do n't apply to cars registered in foreign countries . Legally speaking there is a difference between rules that apply to the car and rules that apply to the behavior of the driver . The requirement of having a fire extinguisher and first aid kit are legally specified as rules that apply to the car , and therefore only apply to cars registered in Belgium . As for the warning triangle and safety vest , <URL> ( in Dutch ) , the Belgian law does not state that these are required to be present in a car , like the other two items , but instead specifies that when leaving the car in the middle of the road , you need to be wearing a safety vest . If you have an accident , you 're required to put out a safety triangle . So you 're not technically required to have these items in the car , but it would be difficult to follow the law otherwise . For the safety vest this was quite literally explained in a <URL> : La modification du Code de la Route ne s ' accompagne pas d'une adaptation de la réglementation technique des véhicules . En effet , si la veste réfléchissante était imposée comme équipement obligatoire du véhicule , seuls ceux immatriculés en Belgique seraient concernés . Il est donc plus logique d'introduire cette obligation sous la forme d'une règle de comportement même si l'utilisation de cette veste suppose nécessairement que le conducteur en dispose d'une dans son véhicule . Translated , this says : The modification of the highway code is not accompanied by an adaptation of the technical regulations for vehicles . Should the safety vest be imposed as an obligatory equipment of the vehicle , then this regulation would only apply to vehicles registered in Belgium . It therefore makes more sense to introduce this obligation as a rule of behavior , although the use of the safety vest necessarily implies that the driver has one in his vehicle . Edit : It has been pointed out to me that Belgian law does also have a rule for safety vests which applies to the car . This is the result of a <URL> . It was issued about 2 years after the above one , in 2009 . As they stand , there is now a behavioral rule which applies to anyone driving in Belgium , and a car equipment rule which applies to any car registered in Belgium . There is no accompanying text for the 2009 Royal Order which explains why the extra rule was introduced after all . I suspect the first one did not give enough legal basis to fine people for not having the safety vest in the car , as it only " implied " you needed to have one . As far as I know , the requirement of having a fire extinguisher and first aid kit are ( still ) only specified as rules that apply to the car . However , in summary , rather than trying to argue the finer points of these legal distinctions with local police , I would recommend following the advice of the Royal Dutch Touring Club by simply taking all four items . It avoids the need for discussion , the possibility of fines , and they might be useful if you do have an accident .
Coaches The <URL> carries plenty of information on the topic , including : Coach operators Most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland are provided by Scottish Citylink , Stagecoach , Megabus and National Express offering most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland , including a connecting service between the country 's two biggest cities , Edinburgh and Glasgow . Tickets for these services can be bought in advance by phone , online , in stations and often on board . For busy routes and travel at peak times , such as weekends or national holidays , it 's a good idea to book as early as possible to guarantee a seat . It 's worthy to note that there exist various discount cards for coaches , namely the <URL> and the <URL> . Quoting from the aforementioned Visit Scotland page : Discount fare options If you plan to do a lot of travelling by coach , it may be worth buying an Explorer Pass , which offers unlimited travel on Scottish Citylink network or the megarider tickets offered by Stagecoach , which provide unlimited travel within certain areas . Car Sharing Car sharing is obviously an option too . <URL> for example operates in the UK . You might want to check it out . Trains Train tickets are generally expensive in the UK , unless you have a discount card . I do n't know of your age group qualifies for one , but <URL> allow for many interesting discounts . Should n't you fit the age group , despair not . As starplusplus usefully mentions , the <URL> allows discounted fares for two people traveling together . Seems to fit your case perfectly . Ticket prices may vary a lot depending on the departure time . For some lines , there are multiple train companies offering various times and prices .
I said this in a comment , but now I 've got a proper citation , so here 's a proper answer . Canadian visas ( like every other visa I 'm familiar with ) do indeed have an expiration date . This is the date by which you must travel to Canada to seek entry . As you note in your comment , the duration of stay is not affected by the expiration of the visa . The expiry date on the TRV is the date by which the visa must be used to seek admission into Canada . If the visa is not used on or before that date , it ceases to be valid . " TRV " means " Temporary resident visa " Source : <URL>
According to the <URL> : Residents of the 33 approved countries can obtain a Tourist Visa upon arrival . The visa can be purchased for a nominal fee at the airport or port . It can also be issued online instantly prior to travel . This visa is valid for one month and can not be extended . The <URL> are : Fees Visa issuance fees : QR 100 for each visa , QR 50 for each accompanying person and QR 200 for overstay fine per day . At the current exchange rate this works out to ~ 28 . This visa is valid for one month and non-extendable .
Picking Dawson City as a representative worst case , you can see from <URL> and <URL> that it can snow a bit as early as late August , but the average snowfall for the entire month of September is less than 2 inches . From experience not too far south of there I can tell you it is generally warm enough during the day in September that any snow is unlikely to remain on the ground very long . A little bit of snow is not very dangerous in any case as long as the vehicle has half-way reasonable tires ( I.e. not big , wide slicks ) . It seems like the probability of a problem is pretty low .
Normally it is not required to have Visa tourist in advance for USA , Canada and most of Europe . But this is only for Tourist visa , any other visa ( work , businesses , diplomatic , ... ) should be arranged in advance . Also this is for normal passports , official or diplomatic passports need advance visa . Tourist visa can be stamped in all main airports for : UK citizens : # 15 US citizens : US$ 15 Australian citizens : A$ 45 Canadian citizens : C$ 25 other countries : $ 15 Lately there are talks in Egypt about needing arranged Visa for solo-travelers . Which means that people travel in tourist groups will not require arranged visa . To be sure , I think it is better to give a call to <URL> .
The British FCO seems to indicate that Dengue Fever is still a risk in Mexico : <URL> ( Scroll down or CTRL-F to find the passage about Dengue Fever )
From experience with two successful Canadian vistior visa applications at the Moscow office : I 've provided scans of original ( Russian ) documents , plus translations . Everything was combined into one PDF file ( actually one file per section of the application , with a short table of contents for the longer sections ) . Most of the translations were just separately-typed Word documents . However , for some documents which had a lot of information but only some of the information was relevant ( e.g. paystubs ) , I used the " balloon " method .
As I understand your situation , you 've made quite the mess . You lied about the purpose of your visit on your first application , were refused , and now wish to apply for substantially the same trip , presumably without too much time in between , with a different purpose . That is bad , yes . So you 're proposing one of two options : Admit that you lied before and explain the true reasons for your travel . The problem is that you 'll be admitting to deception , and so your new application will have a major credibility problem . Pretend like nothing happened and make a new application . The problem here is that the consular officer can plainly see your previous refusals and will wonder why your tourist trip has turned into a business trip with the exact same itinerary . This looks both desperate and untruthful . Genuine applicants do not change the purpose for their trip . A history of further refusals will only make the problem worse at this point . The best thing to do at this point would be for your company to engage a qualified German immigration lawyer to help make a new application . You should explain to this lawyer the full details of your previous application and denial .
The US and Canada are two different countries , and as such , has different providers for internet , cellphones and data connections . If you have a sim card from one and travel to the other , it 'll cost you roaming charges . It 's easy enough to acquire SIM cards - you go to a shop and buy one over the counter . I found it tricky at first in Canada , but I feel that 's because I dealt with an unhelpful Rogers staff member . We have a question on that , fortunately . . As such , you 'll want to take a look at the following questions for further information : <URL> and <URL> It of course depends on how much you 're going to use them . I 'm in Vancouver with a prepay sim , and when I go to Seattle I just use my Canadian sim - it 's easier , and for the few texts I might send , it 's easy to keep the same number , and use the wifi in coffee shops everywhere there for data .
Generally speaking German IC and ICE are somewhat comparable to Dutch IC in that they do not stop at every station along the way . Their comfort level is higher ( often with a bar/restaurant and always the possibility to reserve a seat ) which make them feel more luxurious than Dutch trains but they are not really " exclusive " . Like TGV in France , ICE are in fact very common , gradually replacing IC on many lines so planning around them is difficult . Practicality of regional trains to cover long distances is going to depend on the precise time and destination . As an example , a quick search on bahn.de shows that Hengelo to Stettin is about 11 hours with 5 to 7 changes . You can reach the same destination in less than 8 hours , with two changes using the Amsterdam-Berlin direct train . If you travel alone and are able to book in advance , the price difference is not big : 39 $ to Berlin from any station in the Netherlands plus 10 $ for the Berlin-Stettin-Ticket , which works out to 8 $ more than the schönes Wochende Ticket . Following the same idea , you can also cross the Dutch border with a regional train or by some other means and book a Europa-Spezial ticket from the first German train station to Poland ( <URL> ) , also for 39 $ . You do n't even need to stop near the border , from Berlin you can get a connection all the way to Gdańsk , Warsaw or Kraków with the same ticket . You can travel on a week day as well so this solution is a lot more flexible and comfortable for a very small price difference . However , for several people , the price difference would be significant because one of the main advantage of the schönes Wochende Ticket is that a whole family or a small group ( up to 5 people ) can travel with one ticket .
The travel advisory from <URL> or <URL> sound rather positive . Usually I would not answer based only on that but since they tend to be conservative in their advice , it seems Congo is not a country of particular concern . The only thing mentioned are the usual ( for African countries ) warnings about poor neighborhoods , road travel and going out at night . Some attacks on travelers have apparently been reported in the border regions ( the border with the Central African Republic in the North , in the Cuvette Ouest département near Gabon and in the Pool département outside of Brazzaville itself in the south ) but some of these reports might be old .
Regarding the eiffel tower : <URL> By day , the sun light and the eiffel tower are in public domain , you can take it in picture and publish / try to sell the pictures as you want . By night , the eiffel tower artistic lighting is under copyright if it 's the main subject of the picture . I think if it 's for your little blog among your friends / a little audience , it should be ok ( writing the " copyright Tour Eiffel - illuminations Pierre Bideau " is a plus ) . If you have a big blog or try to make a commercial use , you must ask ( and pay ) for the right at the Eiffel Tower company ( SETE ) . Regarding someone in a picture : <URL> <URL> If the person is the main subject and you can recognize them , you have to ask them before to publish . If they are far away and barely recognizable it 's ok . ( There is an exception for public figure during public life . )
An american software engineer living in Japan gives a <URL> and why you should n't be afraid to travel there after the nuclear accident . Essentially , the summary is that Japan is very large . It 's unlikely that your travel plans as a tourist will be anywhere near the accident . Source : <URL>
Yes . From the <URL> : Question : Can I travel to the United States on the Visa Waiver Program to find a job or attend interviews and then apply for the E-3 visa once I return to Australia ? Answer : Yes , you can travel on the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) if you meet the requirements ( please see our page on the Visa Waiver Program ) . If you do not meet the VWP requirements , you may be eligible to travel on the B-1 / B-2 Combined Visa for Business or Pleasure . You must leave the United States before applying for your E-3 visa .
end question
start question
What 's the cheapest way to call China from the US with an AT&T cell phone ?
<URL> . The way it works is you can call online or call a local US number that will call the Chinese number for you ( which would use your minutes or your normal per minute cost on top of the $ 0.02 ) . Your girlfriend could call you online using it as well , if you set up an account for her in the US ( it ca n't be set up outside ) . That would require a second phone line though -- any US number that is n't already in use by Google Voice . Once set up she can have it redirect to Gmail chat rather than the phone number , so if you have parents with a land line or something you could use that number ;) I do n't know a cheap way to call from China using a physical phone , unfortunately .
While Ivan 's answer is the most economical option , I disagree that there 's not a shuttle . For inexperienced travellers who may not speak the language , there ARE taxis from both airports as well . There is also a shuttle/bus company called Manuel Tienda León . I used them . For 45-50 ARS , they 'll take you to the city to just near Retiro ( the main bus station and a metro station ) , and for 5 ARS extra , you can get dropped at your hostel/hotel . To me this was the best deal after a crazy long flight from Europe with delays , versus having to negotiate with local buses and being unwilling to pay for taxis . Even now , with my improved Spanish skills , I 'd probably still go for the shuttle option if arriving on my own by plane . No need to pre-arrange though , they 're right as you enter the terminal , and you do n't have to wait more than 15 minutes for a shuttle .
For such broad flight searches , a matrix flight search engine is the optimal solution . You could use for example <URL> . I did a simple search for you : For that search query I used Berlin , Germany and all surrounding airports within 1000 miles as origin and all major airports in Vietnam as destination . The screenshots shows the cheapest flight for all the days between 1 . of July and 1 . of August . As you can see , the cheapest flight is available for 386 $ . When we check the details for this flight we see the following : Mysteriously , the flight is now only 361 $ . As you can see the flight departures from Prague and flies to Ho Chi Minh City via Frankfurt . The involved Airlines are Czech Airlines and Vietnam Airlines . The cheapest non-stop flight from Europe to Vietnam I could find is available for 572 $ : It is a non-stop flight from Paris to Ho Chi Minh City with Vietnam Airlines : So generally , I would recommend that you use such flight search engines to find the cheapest and most convenient route for you .
You could take a <URL> bus directly from <URL> for 39 $ ( or 35 $ for " Promotional Ticket - can not be changed or refunded ! " ) The trip takes 4 to 4 1/2 hours , and looks like there are 1-3 daily connections . I do n't know if this is the cheapest public transport option available ( probably not ) , but it 's much better than the ICE price , and quite convenient because it 's a direct connection .
<URL> handles your problem . How to log on Select the ZurichAirport WLAN network Launch the browser ( e.g. : Internet Explorer , Firefox , Safari , ... ) on the device A connection to the login page is created automatically Select " Register " After registering , a code will be sent via text message Enter the code in the registration interface and click " Login " ( the code will be saved for twelve months ) No mobile phone or problems with text message reception ? For an access code you can use boarding pass scanners at the following locations : Service Center ( Airport Center , Level 1 ) Information ( Airside Center , Level 1 ) Airside Center , Level 1 beim Transit Hotel Switzerlandinfo , Arrival 2 Gates E , Level 2 next to Starbucks Gates E , Level 2 next to Alpenblick Bar Gates A , opposite to Starbucks ( A63 )
Fly . Thai AirAsia has direct flights from Bangkok ( Don Mueang ) to both Siem Reap and Phnom Penh , and promotional fares can be less than 1000 baht all in - cheaper than any land transport option , and much faster , safer and more comfortable . Immigration at the airports is also virtually hassle-free . The caveat is that regular/last minute fares are not particularly cheap , so you 'll need to plan ahead to maximize your savings .
Lipulekh Pass is the only place in Uttarakhand , India where the border crossing is allowed into China . But this is allowed only for the pilgrims that are part of The Kailash Mansarovar Yatra , a pilgrimage to Mount Kailash and Lake Mansarovar . It is very unlikely that other people ( other than pilgrims ) are allowed in this route .
The fastest way ( 41 min from station to station , half-hourly on weekdays ) is the <URL> ( high-speed train ) , but you need to buy an additional ticket on top of your regular ticket ( $ 16.80 = 14.50 + 2.30 ) . The normal train connection ( 60 -- 70 min , 2 trains per half-hour ) would cost you less ( $ 14.50 ) . You can look up times and prices and buy tickets on the <URL> . You will be charged $ 0.50 extra if you pay with credit card . If you are able to find a regular Dutch traveler , you can save 40 % on your ticket . Holders of the Dutch railways reduction card get this reduction outside peak hours and can take up to three fellow travelers with the same reduction . So to go cheap you need to make Dutch friends ;)
I am not from around your area , but prospecting has always been an interest of mine . <URL> looks at the general information relating to prospecting in the US , a link from that article <URL> provides more detail . <URL> has many links pertaining to the rules , regulations and locations of the gold-panning areas in the Pacific Northwest . I hope this helps .
Nothing is going to beat Thalys time-wise and Paris-Nord is n't too far away from the center as far as long-distance " departure points " ( whether airports , train stations or bus terminals ) go . You simply need to combine Thalys with a subway , RER or taxi ride from wherever you find yourself . Even if you could find a bus starting closer to your actual point of departure , it 's going to be much slower . Trains other than the Thalys will also leave from somewhere else and/or require several connections or a long travel time . Both solutions could be considerably cheaper , however . Ridesharing could also be a way to save some money and leave directly from another part of the city than the train station but it requires a lot of flexibility and would not be very fast either so it probably does not meet your requirements . Also , among the main central sights , the Arc de Triomphe and Champs de Mars are already a bit away from the very center of Paris . You could plan your sightseeing to start there in the morning and end up near Châtelet / Les Halles , Saint-Michel -- Notre-Dame , Cité ( close to the île de la Cité , the Louvres or the Tuileries ) or another station on subway line 4 or RER line B or D. Same thing if you intend to see the Grands Boulevards , Montmartre or the Opéra area ; go there last , not before seeing the Champs-Élysées or the 1st arrondissement .
Cheapest flights to destinations which have snow would be : Tiger Airways to Taipei , Taiwan , and then onwards from there . Tiger Airways Chennai or Bangalore in India , and then a train up to Himalayas or <URL> to New Delhi ( this would be closer ) and then onwards to the Himalayas . AirAsia X to Korea / Japan . These are typically quite expensive compared to the above options .
<URL> often offers very interesting offers from Ostend to Ramsgate . Unfortunately they do n't allow boarding on foot . A different solution would be to use Eurolines , you only need to board further away from Calais or Dover I just checked , a one way ticket from Brussels to London on June 20th is as cheap as 4 Eur one way . Do n't board the bus in Calais or Dover , because then they seem to charge similar prices as boarding the ferry on foot .
I 'd suggest you get a cheap GSM phone ( assuming you 're not lucky enough to have a GSM phone already ) , and then pick up a pre-pay ( PAYG ) sim card when you get to spain . This will also have the bonus of giving you a Spanish number for the duration of your trip , so people in Spain can call you for a sensible amount of money . If you only want data , you may wish to get an unlocked 3g usb dongle , and then pick up a PAYG sim card for it , that could potentially be cheaper than doing it via a phone .
Your options Fly : reasonable price , fast , safe , &amp; reliable . Do book at least a couple of weeks before if you come in the high season . You can fly from Denpasar ( Bali ) , but also from Mataram ( Lombok ) I believe . Check with <URL> . Sail : more expensive , slower ( at least 2 days &amp; 2 nights ) , more unreliable &amp; more unsafe compared to flying . But there are some very cool stops on the way , &amp; the sailing trips always includes stops at Komodo &amp; Rinca islands . Same thing , try to book in advance , a week or 2 should be fine . Read more on <URL> Bus &amp; ferry : cheap price , slow ( 36h ) , unreliable , boring , tiring , &amp; moderately safe ( sailing is probably more unsafe ) . Read more <URL> Fly &amp; bus &amp; ferry - option 1 : fly from Denpasar to Bima with LionAir , and then carry on with bus &amp; ferry . See also <URL> Fly &amp; bus &amp; ferry - option 2 : fly from Mataram to Sumbawa Besar with LionAir , and then carry on with bus &amp; ferry . See also <URL> Fly &amp; bus : fly from Denpasar to Ende with LionAir , and then go by bus to Labuan Bajo ( takes about 12h ) . That 's only worth it if you already planned to visit mainland Flores I suppose , you can stop in Bajawa or Ruteng on the way . PNI ferry : super cheap ( 190 ' 000 IDR in 2015 ) , only every 2 weeks , slow ( 30ich hours ) , unreliable , totally unsafe , &amp; very uncomfortable ( packed ) . You probably do NOT want to do that ! If you do , you can buy ticket at the official ticket office in the harbour . Once in Labuan Bajo We predict a three day excursion What do you plan to do during those days ? Because Komodo national park is also very famous for its exceptional underwater life , so many people do a mix of land excursion ( 1 day for Komodo &amp; Rinca island ) to see the dragons &amp; underwater adventures by diving or snorkeling ( 1 to 3 days usually ) to see Manta Rays , turtles , sharks and more . Note that it 's worth diving in most sites , snorkelling is fine to see the Manta Rays &amp; nice corals but to see more you want to scuba dive . Having at least a PADI open water before going is best , otherwise you will only be allowed on shallow dive sites ( 10 or 12m deep I believe ) . You can be based in Labuan Bajo ( a bit of a ugly , smelly , &amp; dusty town ) &amp; go every day for an adventure . ie . one day exploring Komodo &amp; Rinca island , then 2 days diving . In 2015 , accommodation in LB starts at 100 ' 000 IDR for a double room , day excursion to Komodo &amp; Rinca costs somewhere like 800 ' 000 IDR ( , and a day dive ( 3 dives ) costs around 1.2 millions ( + 175 ' 000 IDR park entrance fee for each day ) . So a total close to 4 millions IDR ( 100 ' 000 x 3 + 800 ' 000 + 1 ' 200 ' 000 x 2 + 175 ' 000 x 2 ) . That 's a lot of money for Indonesian standards but you 'll have a blast . Another solution is to jump on a liveaboard trip ( 3 days should be enough but do longer if you want to dive more ) , also going to Komodo &amp; Rinca island but also doing all the dives . This would be more expensive , in 2015 prices start at 600 USD for 3 days ( around 8 millions IDR ) but it 'd definitely be a much more awesome experience . Apart from the fun/pleasure of being on a sailing boat in an incredible place , you 'd have the advantage of being able to dive early in the morning ( 7 or 8am ) to enjoy the best conditions &amp; have the opportunity to do night dives . Oh , and you wo n't miss a thing by not seeing much ( or anything ) of Labuan Bajo . Resources <URL> <URL> <URL>
It is perfectly fine . The call to prayer is frequently televised so there is nothing wrong with recording it and posting it on youtube . It is done often . However , do not go to the mosque during prayer and start recording there . Its not that its not allowed , its just that you 'll have to have prior permission and you may be a distraction to the congregation .
Go for the latter : get an unlocked smartphone and a local data plan . By far the cheapest . Also , you could buy the phone in Thailand . That being more of a developing country , you 'd be surprised how cheap ( mostly Chinese , but not only ) smartphones can be . You should easily be able to get a basic smartphone for under 100 USD . Even the low end Samsungs should n't set you back more than 130 USD . Getting a data plan in the US is not a good idea . Roaming charges on data tend to be very unreasonable .
Depending on which route you take you may pass through at least 2 or 3 Electronic toll collection systems you can find most of them on the <URL> page . If you take the most direct route via West Virginia , Ohio , Indiana , Illinois and then via I-90 to Washington , you might need <URL> , <URL> , and Washington 's <URL> . You can look at other states that have the Electronic Toll collection systems unaffiliated with other states like California , Texas , Florida , Oklahoma , Colorado , and Kansas . So generally I would n't bother with buying the transponders from them just keep some cash on hand for now and wait until you get License Plate billing technology installed like in <URL> or <URL> . California seems to be moving in that direction ...
Go for <URL> . Tried to buy ticket from ManUtd website and it redirects to <URL> This website allows you to view the seat location and if there is no available seats , it can notify you if there is more seat available . Note that you should arrive early in the stadium since usually they separate the tribune for the home and visiting team .
I 'd say your question is best suited for the gurus over at <URL> , who specialize in wrangling frequent flyer miles and the like . Take a look at the Miles and More forum , as well as the mileage run forum ( which is their term for taking special trips that maximize mileage earned for minimum cost ) . However , if you 're willing to settle for slightly less status ( no first class terminals in Germany , for instance ) consider obtaining Star Alliance gold status on Aegean Airlines for significantly less cost -- only 20,000 miles if I remember correctly . This will allow you priority boarding , lounge access , luggage tags , etc. for less than $ 1000 in flights if you plan it correctly . Look at <URL> for more .
I have flown many times to Schiphol and using a Dutch passport I get out of the place in 30 to 45 minutes . The time you spend extra waiting at passport control is time you wait less for your luggage . Most of the time the line for ' all passports ' is rather short but slow going . From the exit of the secure area ( the green channel ) to the train should not be more than 5 minutes , follow the signs . If possible , look up the platform before you even arrive in the Netherlands . Most trains always leave from the same platform and if you are in a rush , it helps if you know which one you should have . But I think you are leaving yourself enough time if your plane is not delayed . I missed that you want to catch a train within the Netherlands . Those are without reservations , so you can catch any on the day , even when you buy a ticket online . Those trains run very often , you might even catch an earlier train rather than a later one . Most of those trains leave from the same platform every train that leaves on a given day or even all the time . But do read the sign on the platform because there are several trains in turn leaving from that one platform . 2016 update . I have been stuck in passport control quite a bit longer recently , 1 hour for one , more than 30 minutes at an other time . And that was using the ' fast ' EU passports only options . It may have been the time of day , but do leave enough time for getting out of the airport when you book a seat reservation on a train .
end question
start question
Can I bring xanax ( or valium ) on a plane ?
There are two issues that sometimes get confused : What 's allowed on the plane - This is determined by security rules . If a prescription drug is not a liquid that takes you over the liquids limit , then it 's allowed . If it takes you over the limit , it 's generally still allowed as long as you can prove that it was prescribed to you . Prescription drugs in pill form are not a problem at all . What 's allowed into the country / EU - This is determined by customs rules of each individual country . I do n't know the exact EU rules , but I would guess it 's similar to US/Canada rules , where less than 1 month supply of a prescription drug is certainly ok , but for some stronger/psychoactive drugs you need to have proof of prescription . In any case , DO NOT try and hide the fact that it 's Xanax by putting it into another bottle , etc. . Anything like this will just be a red flag for any official , either security or customs . Prescription drugs should be in original packaging , ideally with your name and prescribing doctor 's name / contact info on the packaging .
I think it may vary from country to country , but usually you 're allowed to bring 200 cigattes . From <URL> : Each Member State decides on the limit applicable : 200 cigarettes or 40 cigarettes ; * 100 cigarillos or 20 cigarillos ; * 50 cigars or 10 cigars ; * 250 grams of tobacco or 50 g smoking tobacco * * Each amount represents 100 % of the total allowance for tobacco products and any combination of those products must not exceed 100 % . Example : 100 cigarettes + 50 cigarillos = total allowance <URL> confirms that 200 cigarettes can be brought into Germany tax/duty-free .
Depends on the security measures of your departure airport . For example : <URL> All types of razor are prohibited . Therefore , passengers should not have any sharp objects with them or in their hand-carried baggage ( for example pocket knives , nail files , box cutters , razors , scissors , corkscrews , any sharp/pointed objects , etc. ) <URL> Plastic moulded razors are allowed , but razors that can be opened and razors with changeable blades are prohibited . I assume disposable razor = plastic moulded razor . Razors that have the blade set into a plastic moulding are allowed , but razors that can be opened and the razor blade removed are prohibited <URL> Disposable Razors ( including razor with removable razor blades/catridges ) are permitted . I believe the scissors you mentioned have length > than 4 inches , that 's why it was confiscated . Scissors - metal with pointed tips and blades shorter than four inches are permitted . Razor-Type Blades - such as box cutters , utility knives , and safety razor blades are not permitted . ( disposable razors and their cartridges are permitted ) My advice is to check the security section of your departure airport 's website .
Definitely not the platzkart ! I 'm serious , you 'll never get a calm trip if you are in there . Platzkart has additional side places across the train , so it 's up to 52 people there in a car compared with 4 * 9 = 36 people in kupe car . Also , if you have an upper place ( the even one ) , you simply can go upstairs , and rest for whole trip ( yes , there is a probability that your neighbors will try to speak with you , but it 's much less than in platzkart . Also in kupe you have doors to close and remove outer noises , which you ca n't do in platzkart .
Dubai is the heart of the Middle East , people from all over the world come to Dubai and in a place with this mixture of people you will not face a problem with clothes , simply because many of these tourists are coming from many places with different clothing cultures and many of them just wear whatever they wear at home ! Anyway your profile says that you are from the US , just wear exactly what you wear in the US and you will be fine , such as jeans and shorts . Regarding the weather , daytime it will be warm , night time it might be little cold sometimes so a sweater will help . Regarding dinner it depends what kind of restaurant ( high class , normal , etc ) . Regarding night clubs , many of them have a dress code , so avoid wearing blue jeans . I also suggest that you buy an Arabian dress ( in the UAE they call it Kandoura ) and try it in daytime especially if it was hot , you will like it . It was designed to be worn in the hot areas and the way it was designed helps in cooling the body during hot days . You really should try it .
Disclaimer : The following paragraphs are not to be used as a recommendation , but describes what we experienced . Others might encounter difficulties if for instance one gets selected for a check by customs . Well , we did n't have time to get the passport , and did n't want to spend a lot of money on an emergency passport , so we went ahead and tried . The following is true for Norway-Germany , and Germany-Norway : Airport security and check-in : No problems what so ever . The airline staff did not ask for passport for any travelers . Airport security and customs upon arrival : No problems what so ever . No one even looked at us . We did bring the birth certificate , but was never requested to show it , or any other form of identification . Airline rules The airline rules are a bit ambiguous , according to Customer Service at SAS . Infants need to have a passport , but you will most likely not have to show it . But if they ask for it , then you need to be able to show some form of identification , a passport , a birth certificate or something else , if there exist alternatives . So , according to Customer Service , a birth certificate will suffice , although their rules require a passport . They did not know what the Norwegian or German authorities rules were , they only recommended to always carry a passport . National rules Norway The following is a quote from <URL> . Norwegian children must have their own passports . This is also recommended for travel within the Schengen Area ( Europe 's passport-free zone ) , since a passport is the only valid proof of identity for Norwegians abroad . As you can see , the Norwegian authorities recommend that children have a passport within the Schengen Area . They do n't say that you must have it . Germany The following is a badly google-translated text retrieved from <URL> : Children entries are invalid since 26 June 2012 at the parent 's passport . Since that day , all children must have ( from birth ) when traveling abroad its own travel document . This is for German citizens travelling abroad from Germany , not foreigners entering Germany . However , it 's likely that the same rules apply for both . Schengen : The following is taken from <URL> : Documents for minors In addition to their own valid passport or ID card , all children travelling : alone ; or with adults who are not their legal guardian ; or with only one parent may need an extra ( official ) document signed by their parents , second parent or legal guardian ( s ) authorising them to travel . There are no EU rules on this matter , each EU country decides whether or not it requires such documents . Summary The airline company will most likely let you board the plane with an infant without passport . The Norwegian authorities recommend , but does n't require that you bring a passport for an infant The German authorities requires that all citizens have passports when travelling from Germany . It 's therefore likely that the requirement holds for foreigners travelling to Germany .
I assume as you are saying " book a flat " you are booking the whole place to yourself and you do n't expect to share the accommodation with your host when you are there . So your problem is , to put it bluntly , getting rid of the host after she has made her introductions . In my experience ( principally in France ) most hosts do not really want to talk to you after they have provided a quick tour of the place and an explanation of the building 's security quirks . They really just want an idea of who is in their house , and then they want to go back to whatever it is they do . Often I have found the task is delegated to a neighbour rather than the real host , who is even less interested in you . As another commenter mentioned , this is five minutes . Sometimes I spend longer at hotel reception desks than this . If you really are anxious to be left alone , one strategy is to mention politely that you have some pressing engagement . Perhaps you are late to meet a friend in town , you want to get to the museum before it closes , you need to be up early , or you have some work to complete before a client meeting . My feeling is that most hosts are using Airbnb as a business , not a way to make new friends -- but this perspective is limited to Western Europe , it might be wrong elsewhere .
This is going to vary strongly from carrier to carrier because as far as I can tell what really matters is how long it 's been since the interiors were refurbished ( a process airlines do one plane model at a time ) and whether the route is considered important by the airline . Sure , you can make some overall opinions about narrowbody ( one aisle ) vs widebody ( two aisles ) but not much else . Power , inflight entertainment , and even just the upholstery are all going to matter as much as layout . If I was travelling alone on AirCanada , I would go with the 330 because two of the three banks of rows have no " middle seat " . If I was travelling as a family of three , that same difference would cause me to reject the 330 . I guess maybe a family of four would prefer the 330 since you could get two rows of two and have two windows and a little family cluster . However I 'm only 5 ' 4 " and my shortness is all in my legs , so a 31 " pitch does n't scare me . It might be more of an issue for you .
Go to the airport anyway . Most likely you will end up with a seat . If not , the airline will take care of you and get you to your destination on another flight . Some possible explanations : The flight is overbooked . If someone else fails to show up for the flight , you 'll have a seat . If not , they will offer incentives ( vouchers for future travel ) for someone to give up their seat and take a later flight . If nobody does , they will bump someone at random ( not necessarily you ) , give them compensation , and put them on a later flight . There are seats still available , but they want to save them for special customers ( elite-level frequent flyers , etc ) . Perhaps they are " premium " seats with extra legroom , exit rows , etc. . Right now these special customers have seats elsewhere on the plane . Sometime before departure , the airline will upgrade their elite customers into these premium seats , leaving their original seats for you . So you most likely will get a seat , though you may not have much choice as to which seat . If you buy your ticket further in advance , when more seats are available , you will have a better chance of being able to confirm your seat assignment .
I find several things help , some are physical or physiological while others are purely mental : I find it easier to adjust to " it 's morning , get up now ! " - as you get when you fly east - if I get light on my face as soon as possible . On the plane , open your shade , eat the " breakfast " they give you , and do the things you do in the morning . In a hotel , get those curtains open . Go for a little walk outside before breakfast . change your watch to destination time . Do not say , or allow others to say , that it 's " really " 3am , or that your body thinks it 's 3am , or anything other than the time it is where you are Eat when you 're hungry , regardless of the clock , but sleep , drink coffee , drink alcohol , and watch TV only according to what the clock says is ok where you are Sleep on the plane . Even for a four hour flight , and even in the middle of the day - it 's boring , after all , and getting a little extra sleep is bound to help with tiredness later . This is especially important when flying west since you 'll need to stay up late . And when you wake up , even if there 's lots of flight remaining , switch to destination time . Treat the asleep time as the transition . Drink lots of fluids . Flying is dehydrating , jetlag makes you grumpy and headachy , and waiting until the appropriate time for a meal can mean getting thirsty . Have water or other non-caffeine non alcohol drinks a little more often than you otherwise would . If you know that jetlag hits you hard , arrange your schedule for the first few days of your trip to be low key . A long train ride with plenty of staring out the window could be boring , but if you 're tired and adjusting to the time shift , it 's way better than being on stage giving a make-or-break presentation . If you give yourself a day or two for jetlag transition , do n't take those days back by leaving vital work ( like rehearsing the talk ) for then . Same for when you come home . Bring something to occupy yourself if you wake up long before your travelling companions . Ideally you could read or do email for 30 minutes , then go back to sleep . Do n't take it as a sign of weakness if you get hit hard by jetlag . Some do and some do n't . But there are things you can do that help .
First of all , haggling is not an expected part of buying goods in Dubai , which is by a fairly long shot the most Westernized place of the Middle East . Most people shop in shopping malls much like those in London , where things have clearly labeled prices , and you would only negotiate for discounts if you 'd do that in the West as well ( say , buying a sofa ) . Neither will you need to haggle for taxis , public transport , restaurants , cafes , etc. . You can thus quite easily complete all your souvenir shopping in haggle-free comfort in a mall , department store or even supermarket -- I 've found the best thing to bring back from the Middle East is high-quality dates , and both Carrefour etc and the airport sell nice gift-wrapped ones at excellent prices . Where people do haggle is the traditional markets , most notably the gold souq and the other markets around the Creek . Rest assured , no merchant will be offended by you accepting their first price , in fact they 'll have a hard time containing their glee as they try to sell you more stuff and then pass you onto their friends to collect some commission on top . But if you must buy from a haggle-y shop and do n't want to haggle , I usually adopt this approach : establish a reference price by visiting a hotel gift shop ( ludicrously overpriced ) or a fancy air-con mall souvenir shop ( still overpriced , but not quite so badly ) and chop it down to what seems like a sensible level . Then walk into the bazaar shop and ask if you can buy X for Y dirhams . If they say " yes " , win-win ; if they say " no " , say thank you and walk away . If ( when ) they run after you yelling lower and lower prices , turn around once they get to the price you named and you have a deal .
As others have said , give serious consideration to not buying one ! However , if you must ... Tottenham Court Road would be your best bet . It 's almost half way between Paddington and St Pancras , and if you do n't have too much luggage it 's probably a 30-40 minute walk from either . Otherwise , plenty of buses there , or you can take the tube ( from Paddington walk to Lancaster Gate for a direct tube ) Tottenham Court Road has loads of computer and electronics shops along it . If you want somewhere where you can see the various options , compare between shops , maybe haggle , or otherwise get a good deal on an old model they 're trying to shift , then that 'll be your best option . Just make sure you 're clear on what you want , and do n't go for the first shop , plan a bit of time to check out the options , and have a good idea of approximate prices first ! Otherwise , you could look at ordering one online to be delivered to your hotel , either new or second hand . Oh , and consider the age of the maps - depending on where you 're going a map that is a few years old might be fine , or might be a big problem . As an example , the Scottish Highlands have n't changed in a long time , but the area around Stratford and the Olympic Park has altered a lot recently !
You are asking the wrong question . Finding uninhabiteds island is not a problem , there are countless ones in Oceania or the Caribbean . Marooning was the term of leaving someone on an uninhabited island and it was considered a capital punishment . The reason is simple : What do you want to do there what you can not do with a big yacht or a house on a inhabitated island ? You have already the precondition that you have enough money . With a big yacht you can travel everywhere , replenish stocks and do what you please . A house on an inhabited island gives you social life to enjoy . Living on an island grows stale very quickly . Most uninhabited islands are for a reason uninhabited : They can not sustain life for one or several persons , so replenishment of stocks and therefore contact with the outer world are a necessity . If you can not avoid contact why living on an island ( instead on a yacht or house of an inhabited island ) in the first place ? What about friends ? They may find it cool to party some time , but sooner or later a problem occurs : Cabin fever . Every time a group is isolated and have no possibility to withdraw , it causes irritation and finally aggression . Anyway , all islands are under a jurisdiction . While officials may never find out what you are doing , once they know they can forcibly evict and punish you . And the law also applies for everything you have done , so no room for misbehavior . <URL> provided in the comments an example : <URL> . Tonga forced the claimants to abandon their attempt . Forget the idea .
<URL> Former London flight attendant Mrs Meho said there 's little cabin crew can do with a corpse , so the priority is to place the body out of sight . " We make the body comfortable , " Mrs Meho said . " Either that means taking it somewhere discreet or lying the body flat and covering with a blanket . If there are not seats we ' prop ' the body up . " " We can place them ( bodies ) anywhere , but not a lavatory , " Sharon said . " We are also given the option of putting an oxygen mask on the person and simply saying they did n't feel well , even if we were sure they had gone to meet their maker . "
Australia like most other countries have <URL> which is currently governed by <URL> . In addition there are rules for <URL> . And while Public Nuisance may not qualify as a <URL> , although there was a <URL> , you may not pass the <URL> which states among other things : having regard to the person 's past and present general conduct , the person is found to be not of good character This means that it is within the discretion of the Immigration authority to deny you visa if they find this sufficient cause to do so . So I would direct the question to an Australian Consulate on whether your particular case need to be reported as criminal record . As far as payment of a fine is concerned you can look at the results on <URL> which lists payment facilities for various states in Australia .
I do n't think any airline would allow you to take that sword as carry-on luggage into the cabin with you . However , you should be able to check it in as luggage ( but it may be considered oversize luggage , which may be an extra fee ) . Just be sure to pack it well ( you can find info about packing actual swords as luggage online , which may be helpful ) .
Things I 'd never thought I 'd ask : " How big is your kayak ? " With Emirates Airlines , you can send sports equipment as luggage so long as its length + height + width is less than 300cm , for $ 350 each way . They also have an air-cargo service for larger items . 300cm seems small to me and $ 700 a lot of money . Maybe just buy a kayak in India and abandon it or resell it when you leave ? See <URL> for some suggestions .
Information on import duties for purchase of items outside the EU are available <URL> . And a calculator is available <URL> . You are liable for import taxes according to the rules <URL> . Presuming the value of the item is over 150 Euro , you will have to pay duty and tax on the whole value . It appears that a food mixer is code 8509 40 00 00 : Food grinders and mixers ; fruit or vegetable juice extractors This code is subject to 2.2 % duty and then 21 % VAT . The duty is applied first and then VAT is applied on the total of value + duty . If you bring the item back with you in luggage , the duty free allowance is shown <URL> . You do pay taxes for : Products you purchased outside the EU during the trip , if the total value exceeds $ 430 Note that taxes are only due on items you are importing to the EU . Items that you already owned before travelling , and as such have already had appropriate EU taxes paid , do not count towards the alliance or need any taxes paying . Note that if you exceed the duty free limit on a single item , you will <URL> on the whole amount . It is not permitted to divide the value of 1 article over several people . If you take 1 article with a value exceeding $ 430 with you , you will have to pay tax over the whole amount . Examples : - You buy a camera for $ 500 . You must pay tax over the entire amount . - You buy a watch for $ 400 and a fountain pen for $ 55 . The total amount is $ 455 . You only have to pay tax over the fountain pen .
It 's difficult to give a concrete , sourced answer to this without knowing which country we 're talking about . However , in most cases , I would n't worry about it if I was you , as long as your main intention is tourism . If you 're very keen on being careful , you could contact the embassy of whatever country you 're going to visit . But this has the very real danger of complicating the visa application process when the time comes . Maybe ask them after you 've returned ? ( <URL> ) The situation might change a little if you become known as someone selling photographs on the side ( For example , if you have a website , etc. ) This still seems very unlikely , though , but some countries will demand that all persons who are known to work in related professions visit on a journalist visa , regardless what they claim any given trip is for . For example , two years ago my mother , who works in publishing , wanted to visit India , purely as a tourist . The Indian Embassy demanded that , due to her profession , she did so on a journalist visa , regardless of her stated intentions for the trip . Now , since you probably are n't working in media , even this would n't apply to you . But if you got into the habit of selling photographs , had a website , or were otherwise known as someone making money from photography , it 's not impossible ( though still very unlikely ) that it could happen . Mostly though , if the main intention of your trip is tourism , most countries wo n't mind , let alone notice , if you happen to end up selling some of the photos you took as a tourist . I find it extremely unlikely that any government is gon na track down an amateur photographer after a trip and say " Hey , what kind of visa were you on when you took that photo ? " And even if it did happen , it 's such a gray area that you 'd be unlikely to get anything worse than a warning .
Checked : any one that you like . Carry-on : nothing with a knife/knife-like/blade for <URL> . <URL> , you can generally get away with something that has a blade less than 4 " . Practical : I commuted between Sydney and USA ( Texas ) every 6 - 8 weeks for three years , making dozens of trips . I had a Swiss Army Card with the file attachment removed . About 18 months into traveling , Australian airport security confiscated it , on the basis that the ( very , very small ) scissors blade represented a weapon . All of the <URL> have a blade , scissor , or blade-like implement . Your only option would be to check it or selectively remove items prior to traveling with it as your carry-on . Otherwise you risk having it confiscated . However , there 's at least a decent chance you 'll get away with it .
end question
start question
Why India city names on Google map and other maps only show English ?
For OpenStreetMap , objects can have several different tags for the name . The simple tag is for the common , local name . They can also have tags for the name in other languages , using the ISO code for that language . eg for the name in English , or for the Hindi name . There are more tags for alternative names , or official names , or historic names etc. . It is up to the local community to decide what to use for the default name tag . In some places it will be obvious , if there is only one main language . But in places with multiple languages , it can be less clear , and may lead to disagreements about which one takes priority . So some countries could combine several different languages in the name tag . Anyone producing a map using OpenStreetMap data can choose which of these name tags to use and show on the map . For the default map style on <URL> ( known as ' Standard ' ) , it only shows the tag . Whereas for example , <URL> shows the English name ( tag ) followed by the local name if it is different . Or this <URL> lets you specify what language to prefer .
It 's not necessary to have a refusal stamp in your passport . The fact of your visa refusal will be recorded in the <URL> , and the information will be available to the consulates and border officers of all Schengen countries . The same reasons for refusal that are ticked on your refusal notice are also recorded . Thus , all Schengen states will be aware that you have had a previous visa refusal from Germany , and the reasons for the refusal that the consulate gave to you .
The National Park Service has an arrangement where only a single company is granted an exclusive franchise to travel to or take guests to Alcatraz . Therefore , if you want to go to Alcatraz , there is only one company you can travel with , and private boats are forbidden . <URL> : Tickets for the Ferry to Alcatraz are available at the Alcatraz Cruises website , but they sell out fast so buy in advance . There are a few other websites when you search , but I ca n't vouch for any of them . What you could do to confirm is to call Alcatraz Cruises Box office : +1 415 981-7625 , or email them ( info@alcatrazcruises.com ) . However , even when I was in San Francisco last year , tickets were sold out online and it was n't possible to buy them in person on the day . However , that was Fleet Week , so your mileage may vary on a different week . I 'd drop them a line and see what your options are .
Well , you can go old-shool : buy a decent road atlas . Usually there is a table with distances between larger cities ( either at the beginning or at the end ) - so using it you can have an idea about the scale . Moreover , on every decent road map you will have distances on the actual map - however these are usually between junctions etc. , so you will have to sum up quite a few of them to get the distance for a longer route .
Starting in October 2014 , <URL> . India currently offers visa-on-arrival to tourists from only 11 countries , including Finland , Singapore and Japan . A quote from their Planning Minister on the matter : " We have decided to extend the visa-on-arrival facility to tourists from 180 nations . It will take five to six months for the respective departments to put the required infrastructure in place . We hope to implement this from the next tourist session beginning October , " The electronic visa-on-arrival will be available at 26 major airports in India and would be valid for 30 days from the date of the tourist 's arrival in India . Note , however , that this does not include all countries - for example , nationals from Pakistan , Sudan , Afghanistan , Iran , Iraq , Nigeria , Sri Lanka and Somalia still can not get visas on arrival .
As much as you like It 's your money , we do n't care how much you bring with you : the more you bring , the more you can spend , we 're fine with that . However there are two important things to note You must declare any amount over $ 10,000 ( this applies to the UK as well as the EU , noting that the currency is still Euros when entering the UK ! This would be the equivalent of ~ # 7,800 today , and this has caught people out before who were expecting # 10,000 not $ 10,000 ) . If you do n't declare your money , it may be seized and you can be fined up to # 5,000 ( UK , but there are similar repercussions elswehere ) . Seriously , I ca n't stress this enough , declare it . You may be expected to explain both where you got the money from , and what you intend to do with it , if the amount is unusual for the purposes of your trip . Note specifically that the $ 10,000 limit applies to a combination of all currencies you bring . eg if you have $ 5,000 , # 2,400 , and $ 2,300 , that would total over $ 10,000 . Equally if you bring $ 11,400 , that alone is over $ 10,000 . Keep a close eye on the exchange rate in the run up to your trip if there 's any chance of you getting close to the limit ! Generally , bringing more than a few thousand in cash is likely to be viewed somewhat suspiciously . You 'll likely be allowed through customs with it if you have a reasonable explanation ( eg if you 're a family of 8 and the father brings $ 10,000 to pay for a 2 week holiday ) , but you 'll draw far more attention than you need or want . Unless you absolutely need hard currency , consider bringing travellers cheques and credit/debit cards instead , for the bulk of your funds . It 's worth having a few days funds on you in cash , but there 's little reason to bring thousands of pounds/euros to the UK/EU . Note that the $ 10,000 limit is per person , but I 'd suggest that if you have more than this as a group , you declare it anyway to avoid any misunderstandings . Declaring just says " Hi , Customs , I 'm being open and honest about this " , so that they can ask any questions they may have . With customs : if in doubt , declare it ! <URL> , of which much is based on EU law . Please double-check my information , though , as I ca n't guarantee any of it - particularly for non-UK destinations .
A BitCoin Visa debit is a Visa debit card , and will <URL> as one where <URL> are accepted . Where can I use my card ? ( BitPay ) You can use your BitPay Prepaid Visa ® card at any online or brick and mortar merchant that accepts Visa ® Debit cards . Where can I use my <URL> Debit Card ? At any merchant that accepts VISA . The Xapo Card works just like any other debit card , but instead of drawing funds from your bank account , it debits purchases directly in bitcoin from your Xapo main wallet . You can use the card for online purchases , to shop at your local store , or at ATMs . Where can I use my debit card ? ( Wagecan ) Almost everywhere ! Any retail , merchant , point-of-sale terminals and ATMs , as long as you see ' Card Issuer Accepted ' , you can use it . Note that not all companies will ship their cards to India , BitPay <URL> , Xapo <URL> and CryptoPay <URL> . <URL> seems to ship worldwide . According to this <URL> , BitCoin is not yet regulated in India , but it is n't illegal . As you 'd expect , adoption rates are higher in urban centres ( Mumbai , Delhi , Pune , Bengaluru , Hyderabad , Kolkata , and Chennai ) , but <URL> still seems <URL> . This <URL> and particularly this <URL> ( both July 2016 ) discuss the state of BitCoin in India .
A few reasons : a final sanity check that you did n't walk down the wrong corridor . Some gates have two ' legs ' . Or you could have snuck on or something . On larger planes , to see what aisle you should walk down . Otherwise people will randomly choose one and spend time climbing over seats and getting in the way . They 're on a time schedule , and want you boarded as fast as possible . To greet you - if you 're a club member or similar . Some may have extra ' cues ' on that they need to be aware of - you might require assistance . In addition to which aisle , which direction - sometimes you board behind 1st class , so they need to direct you that way . But yeah , it 's annoying ;)
Google maps seems to do the trick . You first select your Route description ( e.g. <URL> ) . Once you have your route , type shell in the upper search field and Google will show you Shell in the <URL> of your route . EDIT : The second link does n't show both the route and shell stations integrated , but this is a screendump on how the result would look
Yes ! Google maps recently added the possibility of doing exactly this ! I noticed it for the first time today . When you query the route for a specific destination a new option shows up above the possible routes which allows you to choose to depart at a particular time or arrive at a particular time . In the later case it suggests the time that you should leave . The length of the drive is given as a range of times which can , admittedly , be pretty broad . I have <URL> , but it has not received an answer as of yet .
Um . You might want to start by investing in a guidebook or at least flicking through <URL> . The airport and the " city " ( such as it is , Dubai is hugely sprawling ) are most definitely not within walking distance ; however , they are connected by the Dubai Metro , which will whisk you there in a few minutes . The only bit of the city that is really walkable is the souq in the " old " Dubai , next to Al Ras metro station , and you can always take an abra ( ferry ) across or down the creek . That said , Dubai is brutally hot for most of the year , so walking around is not feasible if you 're there in summer or anywhere near it . Yes , there is a <URL> at the airport , in each of the terminals in fact . The airport is ridiculously huge and you can while away hours there quite easily , especially if you 're even slightly into shopping . And as for if it 's worth spending more than a day , the answer is " it depends " . Do you like shopping in insanely huge shopping malls , resort hotels , and artificial attractions like the world 's tallest building , theme parks , aquariums , and indoor ski slopes ? Then the answer is " Yes " . But otherwise , probably not , especially if you do n't know anybody who can take you around and if you 're on a backpacker budget .
At least in Germany , I do n't think security is an issue . Although it actually is uncommon to find waste bins in means of transport for shorter distances , you will find waste bins in most , if not all , regional and long distance trains or inter-city buses . I would rather assume that it is simply so tedious and/or time consuming to empty the waste bins , that none are installed . Intra-city means of transport are often quite crowded and it would be practically impossible for someone to walk through e.g. a packed subway wagon during normal operation to empty the bins . If the driver was supposed to empty the bins at the end of a line , this would take some time and cause both more personnel as well as more vehicles to be required .
The " North vs South " divide exists . South Indians feel North Indians are loud , boorish , and have a superiority complex , and do not attempt to learn or respect local culture , language and such . North Indians feel South Indians are unfriendly , are sambar-rasam people . Both parties have some pre-conceived notions . In the end it depends on you , and the person ( s ) you are interacting with . Hindi is not a special language , and therefore it is not required for all Indians to speak or understand Hindi . I 'd try English first , then Hindi . So , it depends ... people who have to interact with travellers - this includes people who run restaurants , travel services , bus conductors - normally understand Hindi , even though they can/may not respond in Hindi . People in Tamil Nadu do not respond to Hindi very well . In Kerala , people know either Malayalam or English ... Hindi is not understood by most of the people . I know for a fact that North Indians get treated differently because they do not speak the local language . Bus conductors have been rude without reason , and I have seen multiple arguments and altercations every day on my daily commute . Food is awesome - it is n't just <URL> - <URL> - <URL> . Try the small <URL> for staple South Indian food . Try niche restaurants for a much larger variety of dishes . Do n't be afraid to try different flavours and concepts . Source : Living in Bangalore for the past 6 years . Lived in Kolkata before ( Bengali ) . Travelled to Kerala , Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh .
India had tried to curb unauthorized trading between these countries by requesting they ban them . However , as of 2013 , <URL> . <URL> also banned it for similar reasons . However , as of January 2015 , the <URL> . So yes , that used to be the law , and it was to curb unauthorised trading , but that ban has now been lifted officially .
As a local it 'll be different , as you 're living part of any conflicts . However , as a traveller sometimes you 're at risk because you 're naive and have no idea about how to act , where to go and what not to do in these situations . At the same time you 're also sometimes not a target , depending on the circumstances . In these times , the best place to go is various countries ' government travel advisory pages . For example , the <URL> . Some of these you 'd expect from news ; places like Mali , Syria or Yemen , but there are also some surprises sometimes - for a while the Australian travel advisory site listed New Zealand as a place of warning - in post-earthquake Christchurch . In this case , the US State Department site does n't list India at all , so they 're not concerned about you travelling there . However , I tend to look at the NZ Safe Travel Site , also a government site , as they list their assessment of EVERY country . In the case of India - <URL> actually lists a few major concerns , and in the case of areas you 're asking about : There is high risk to your security in the north eastern states of Tripura , Manipur , Assam , Nagaland and we advise against all tourist and other non-essential travel to these states due to the threat of terrorist activity , violent crime and demonstrations . Their page was updated today , so it 's fairly current .
Yes you can do this but be aware of the following things : You might have completely different ( harder-to-obtain ) visa requirements , check carefully before ! In case of a delay of your first flight ( A to C ) you loose your second ticket ( C to B ) under most ticket conditions . If you travel with check-in luggage you likely have to re-check your bags . This more often than not involves going through immigration which involves issues mentioned above in 1 . In more detail : If travelling on one ticket ( i.e. . A to B ) chances are you will only need a transit visa if at all ( but this is in no way certain , so check ! <URL> was lucky since he already had a US visa , otherwise he would have needed Schengen short stay ) . On two different tickets , if <URL> or if a <URL> , chances are you need a short-stay or similar visa . If you want to know whether you need a visa , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> or <URL> just to name a few of the usual suspects . If you buy a ticket from A to B ( on a single ticket ) then <URL> , even in the case of delays / <URL> / etc. . If however you buy two separate tickets , your first flight is late so that you miss your second flight , the airline that issued the second ticket can ( <URL> ) : then claim ( correctly ) that you broke the terms of the CoC on their ticket by not arriving at the airport in time , and thus would normally cancel your ticket . Depending on the airline , they may choose to show you charity and accommodate you on a later flight ( eg , next day ) , but they have no responsibility to do so , and if the next days flight is full , you 're pretty much out of luck ! In this case most ( but not all ! ) travel insurance policies would cover you , although some may only cover you to the price you originally paid for the missed flight , even though the last-minute replacement flight could cost significantly more - so read the fine print on the policy ! ( continued ) . Finally let me add that this might be another reason for visa problems if due to a delay you end up stranded at C . If you have to re-check your luggage , many airports do not allow you to retrieve or check-in luggage from the international transit area , so if you need to re-check your bags do n't only count the time for doing so ( possible further delays ) but also having to go through immigration ( possibly twice : in &amp; out , so see 1 . above ) . If your bags are seriously delayed your carrier of the first ticket might even not be able/willing to ship your luggage all the way to C where you want it . Some airlines will have interlining agreements and in that case you can ask at A to have your luggage checked in all the way to B through C , showing them your second booking . I have no idea what is the success rate of this as in some cases they might refuse / be technically unable to do so , but it does not hurt asking . Finally , you should add up the hidden costs ( visa , hotel stays , cost for alternative travel in case your plan fails ) and compare that to the A to B ticket price . On the other hand there 's nothing wrong with getting two different tickets if you know your risk . You might have alternative options in case or you wanted to stay a night or two in C anyway . Happy travels !
I have met the " fruit sniffing " dog several times and am aware ( from watching Border Security ) of currency-sniffing and firearms-sniffing dogs in addition to the classic drug-sniffers . Generally , these dogs sniff people 's bags more than people . ( The Canadian beagle that met my flight from the Caribbean once sat [ the dog 's signal ] about my bag , but the handler did n't even want to look in the pocket when I said there was no fruit in it . The Australian german shepherd did n't sit and the handler was not interested in looking to confirm when I said there was peppermint gum in the pocket the dog smelled at the most . ) [ As an aside , in addition to being more interested in bags than people , the vast majority of these dogs work Arrivals not Departures and are found in the baggage hall . The chances of someone being sniffed on their way to a plane are very low . Still , since you worry about this , let me also add that they should allow plenty of time to get to the plane so that unexpected stop-and-search moments do n't result in them being paged to get to the gate and almost missing the plane . I found <URL> that specifically shows cash dogs working in Departures at Heathrow . Watch it and you will hear the handlers tell people " let the dog sniff your bags " ( not you ) and see that the dogs do not touch the people . You can also see people putting backpacks and other worn-high bags such as purses down towards the ground to let them be sniffed . ] My recommendation to you ( and it helps other things as well ) is to have your pockets as empty as possible . In my case that means completely empty . Everything , even my boarding pass , money , and cellphone , is in my carry on bag . Make sure that none of your bags [ carryon or checked ] contain fruit , meat , drugs , thousands of dollars in bank notes , guns , or illicit drugs of course . Also , have a quick chat with your imam to clarify the difference between going over to someone 's home and patting their dog and generally deliberately interacting with a dog vs being in a public place where a working dog approaches you , sniffs you without touching you , and then leaves . The public is not supposed to pat or interact with the sniffer dogs and the dog is not supposed to touch you at all . This conversation may reduce your anxiety about airport dogs a little , which is a good thing , because anxiety in an airport always gets you extra attention . Your imam may also advise you about the washing that is required after a dog has licked ( unlikely with a trained professional ) or nuzzled you or your possessions . If you need to bring something specific to clean up from the dog contact , have it with you in your carryon , in a size and format that wo n't cause issues going through security . Finally if the dog approaches you , put your bag down , stand up , step back from your bag , and hold your arms out a bit - partly to make yourself bigger and partly so your hands are up and away from the dog . Look at the handler , not the dog , and say " please do n't let the dog touch me " - the handler should understand that request and be fine with it .
Short answer : No , that 's not the case . I think what you 've heard was a little mangled in the telling . There are indeed only three large airline <URL> ( GDS ) , which are the systems where both tariffs ( prices ) and reservations are created , stored and accessed . These are Travelport ( Galileo/Apollo/Worldspan ) , Amadeus and <URL> , the last of which you mentioned . Even these are n't quite universal though , as many low-cost airlines like Ryanair and Air Asia do n't participate . However , flight search is the next layer on top of this , which attempts to find the best flights and fares in these GDSes . This is a <URL> that continues to elude a single winner , and since anybody can purchase a GDS subscription and start doing searches , lots of startups do . So while the GDSes have <URL> , there are also third-party competitors like <URL> ( one of the most popular packages for doing this ) , some of the big boys like Expedia roll their own , and then there 's a whole slew of startups like Rome2Rio , Adioso and Hipmunk that all attempt to find some edge : <URL> mixes in trains and buses , <URL> lets you do really wide-open searches and combine with LCCs , <URL> factors in the " pain " of the itinerary etc. .
Your compensation , if any , is governed by the <URL> you agreed to by purchasing the ticket , which in this case states ( emphasis added ) RESPONSIBILITY FOR SCHEDULES AND OPERATIONS American will endeavor to carry you and your baggage with reasonable dispatch , but times shown in timetables or elsewhere are not guaranteed and form no part of this contract . American may , without notice , substitute alternate carriers or aircraft and , if necessary , may alter or omit stopping places shown on the ticket . Schedules are subject to change without notice . American is not responsible for or liable for failure to make connections , or to operate any flight according to schedule , or for a change to the schedule of any flight . Under no circumstances shall American be liable for any special , incidental or consequential damages arising from the foregoing . In the absence of any superseding regulation or legislation -- of which there is none , as the origin and connection are both in the U.S. , which <URL> -- American is not required to give you anything . Despite the new routing , they still fulfill their fundamental obligation , which is to transport you from city A to city B . At best , you could request a refund for the ticket -- though this would necessitate purchasing a new one , which being closer to departure is more likely to be more expensive . If you are an elite frequent flyer with them or on one of the more expensive fares , they may be willing to give you some miles or other token gestures for the inconvenience , but purely in the name of customer relations . Some version of this paragraph is included in most airlines ' contract of carriage . The airline is similarly under no legal obligation to compensate you , notably , for switching a nonstop flight to a connecting flight , a frequent complaint . The same goes for equipment changes -- you may have purchased a ticket expecting a widebody in a three-class international configuration , but have no recourse if it gets swapped for a one-class turboprop at the last minute .
Lady Bay is a part of the Sydney Harbour National Park . In general , Sydney Harbour National Park is only open sunrise to sunset . During special events like New Years Eve they do open parts of the park outside of these times , but this only applies to specific areas , and normally requires tickets purchased in advance . The list of such sites for NYE 2013 is listed on the <URL> . The nearest site to Lady Bay that would be available for NYE is <URL> which is a few hundred metres south of Lady Bay , but is not a part of the National Park . As with most parks near the harbour there are restrictions in place - specifically no glass . It is possible that you would be able to get to Lady Bay , but as far as I can see it 's not allowed - and with the lack of public transport to that area and road closures even physically getting there is going to be difficult .
end question
start question
Are Euros accepted in Gothenburg , Sweden ? Or is conversion to Krona possible ?
Not sure about Gothenburg , but I 've been in Sweden many many times , so I can comment on the general issue . The local exchange offices in Sweden ( I used the ones in Stockholm and Malmö ) charge you a huge amount of commission/service fee . That 's far above the standards of any country I 've ever been to outside Northern Europe . Considering this , I would really not recommend carrying Euro with you in hope to change it to Krona later on . Same problem appears even stronger if you somehow manage to withdraw Euro from an ATM in Sweden , I 'm skipping that option altogether . Paying in Euro is possible at very few places . I remember McDonalds in Stockholm accepting Euro , their ( so to say ) exchange rates were not great , but certainly better than what Forex ( the local exchange office I used ) ends up charging you . The final two options at hand are using your card either directly or to withdraw local currency . While the choice between these depends on your bank 's fees , mine has a policy that every time you withdraw cash abroad in another currency ( we use Euro , so this means outside Euro-zone ) , apart from using their own spread for buying and selling the currency , they charge you a fixed 2.50 euro plus 2.50 % of the amount of money you withdraw . That 's also pretty hefty , especially if you 're withdrawing a relatively small amount . On the other hand , if you just use your card to pay directly , you only lose the difference between the real rate and the rate that the bank sells that currency . This is by far the best option of those that I 've counted so far . The problem with this one is that you can not purely rely on your card ; it 's not valid everywhere and some places really require that you carry some cash . On top of that , in many countries I would be reluctant to use my card everywhere for safety reasons , but you do n't have to worry about it in case of Sweden . Besides , in Northern Europe card payments are very widely accepted compared to most other parts of the world . So my humble suggestion , withdraw some cash in the local currency , but not much , then pay for the rest of the stuff directly with your card whenever possible in case your bank 's fees are similar to mine . If your bank does not differentiate between cash withdrawal and direct payment , you may prefer to withdraw more local currency from an ATM . Have a nice journey !
I think your best bet is to just bring cash in Reals and buy a " money card " in Thailand . You would either have to convert the currency to Baht first , or you might be able to just buy the card from the place you exchange ( depending on where you exchange , if at a bank , they likely would have some kind of card you could get ) . You may also want to explore credit card options . Capital One has the Venture cards which charge no fees for international usage , you just use the card like normal and it automatically converts the transaction by itself , and you do n't pay anything extra other than the cost of the thing you bought . I 'm not sure if this specific card is available to Brazilians , but if you look around you can probably find something similar . I have used this on a few trips to Europe and avoided even the exchange fees because I did n't even have to change cash , I just bought something for 10 Euros and it charged my card $ 13.30 ( current exchange rate ) .
You have found the cheapest possible train ticket for that journey . Note that in order to get that price , you need to book well in advance . There are <URL> ( in Norwegian only ) . The cheapest available InterRail pass will <URL> ( or $ 129 if you 're under 26 ) . All passenger train services in Norway , except the Airport Express train , are operated by Norwegian State Railways ( NSB ) . There are , to my knowledge , no other ways of purchasing a Kristiansand - Trondheim train ticket .
<URL> , that ( as EU citizen ) you can get 72-hours visa to Kaliningrad at the border . You can get 72 hours visa only at 3 points : - Kaliningrad airport , if you arrive by plane - Russian-Polish border ( Bagrationovsk and Mamonovo ) . Another way is to get your visa in Poland is in consulate in Warsaw , but that may take longer .
Crossing Bering Strait on a boat does seem possible but it 's going to be difficult practically . <URL> . From the looks of it , it appears you might have to pay your way through it on commercial fishing vessels which operate in the area . According to this resource , <URL> . From the linked source : It is recommended to cross in a seaworthy vessel capable of handling intense storms . It is possible to cross the narrowest part of the Bering Strait in a smaller boat such as a kayak during a calm period of weather , however a support boat would be recommended . The problem , however , is the possibility of having the boats confiscated upon reaching shore . and ( assume there are similar problem the other way ) How do you cross the Bering Strait legally ? This is very difficult . Not only is it necessary to arrive in Russia in an official port of call , but it is also necessary to depart from an official port of call . We have not heard of any adventurers who have received permission to arrive or depart from the remote shoreline of Russia . <URL> . A pertinent point is while it may be possible to cross , going on from there onwards to rest of Alaska/America has its own problems too . It should be noted that Nome is not a usual port of entry into the USA , and it could be a problem as there is only a part time Immigration and Customs agent . In addition , from Nome to the rest of Alaska would then require an expensive flight to either Anchorage or Fairbanks . Also from Provideniya there are only occasional flights to Anadyr , the Chukotka capital that is considered one of Russia 's less desirable destinations .
From <URL> Whether you use the online process or contact TfL Customer Services , we can credit your online Oyster account if : you only had pay as you go credit on your card you have five days or less on the tickets on your Oyster card We will charge a # 5 administration fee when processing your refund . In some cases this may mean that no refund is payable . " So online seems possible but any refund even smaller than you were hoping . Also , the above may not be much use to you if " credit your online Oyster account " does not suit . So for " cash " on line does not seem an option , there are <URL> ( by post , at a Tube station ) but the least impractical may be : " When you call Customer Services , on 0343 222 1234 ( TfL call charges ) , you 'll need to confirm that you are the registered owner of the Oyster card you 're calling about . You must provide the following details : Your Oyster card number The answer to the security question you selected when you registered or protected your card online If you do n't have this information , Customer Services will ask you some other questions to find your card and identify you as the registered owner . We can refund you by : Cheque ( cheque refunds in pound sterling only ) Payment to your bank account ( UK bank accounts only ) Credit to your Oyster card . We can refund up to # 50 back to your Oyster card as pay as you go credit Web account credit . We can give you a web account credit which you can use when you next top up or buy a Travelcard using your Oyster online account " An " 0343 " number from overseas might also eat into any net refund . Overall , probably best to forget it !
Since you mentioned a multi-day hiking trip , my answer will focus on alpine huts . In other locations , most people accept Euros , but the exchange rate is most often quite poor . Also big grocery stores like Migros or Coop take Euros . Most restaurant in the pedestrian area in Vaduz and Schaan also take Euros , but more remotely located restaurant do not always accept Euros . There are three major alpine huts in Liechtenstein : Gafadura , Sücka and Pfälzerhütte . Pfälzerhütte <URL> and calculates the prices in Euro on case to case basis with the latest exchange rate . The Gafadurahütte also <URL> . Considering Sücka , I <URL> , but I recall that I 've seen people paying with Euros there . But I would contact the owners first and ask them . In summary : Euros should be enough , especially if you also have a credit card . If you want to be sure that you wo n't be put on a disadvantage because of the poor exchange rates , I 'll take Swiss francs with me .
There 's good news and bad news . The good news - <URL> , except the church land , private gardens and near water reservoirs . We researched this in 2008 and found many , many resources online saying it 's perfectly fine to camp even on the side of the road . We even checked this with locals in Novosibirsk when we got there . However , they suggested that while it 's cool and all , it 's safer to camp in a campsite as there 's security . And we could register with the campsite owner . The bad news - the campsite owners did n't do registration . However on subsequent trips to Russia , I 've found a lot of places claim to not do registration , or will come up with all sorts of excuses why they ca n't do it ( weekend , only staying a day , etc etc ) . The way around this is to find a travel agent , as it 's possible to register there . Or find a hostel and ask them to register you there for a week . That 's what most who were willing would do for me , as it made no difference to them , and would increase the odds of me staying there if I was already registered . And this <URL> also points out it 's possible to go and register at a Russian police station . Personally though , I 'd exhaust the travel agency / hostel tricks first before approaching the police about an ' unusual ' situation ( see <URL> ) .
For all practical purposes , the Mongolian tögrög is a closed currency , meaning you ca n't buy it outside of Mongolia . I 'm not quite certain why this is so , but probably because it seems to be illegal to take more tögrög out of the country than you bring in , so there 's no easy way for an overseas bank to gain a supply of tögrög to sell to you . ( But do n't worry about getting into trouble taking a few left-over notes out of the country . ) ATMs are plentiful in central Ulaanbaatar . They 're often inside banks , rather than on outside walls , and are typically labelled ' ATM ' or ' банкомат ' . I had no difficulty using a British bank card there . If your first stop in Mongolia is Ulaanbaatar , you wo n't have any difficulty obtaining currency . If you arrive by train , then it 's normal for a man to come down the train selling tögrög in exchange for various currencies . I brought some US dollars with me for that purpose , as that tends to be the most easily traded currency .
Short Answer Yes ! Typically you will find a ticket conductor on-board who will check tickets in the start . Try to contact him beforehand in order to ensure risk free travel . The ticket conductor can help you purchase a ticket on-board the train . The ticket will be a little bit more expensive , but it is certainly possible . This is clearly mentioned on the <URL> , If you 're really in a hurry , you can buy your ticket on Deutsche Bahn 's trains . These tickets cost slightly more than conventional tickets bought before departure , but you can pay either in cash or by credit card . Certain special offers are not available on trains . NB : if buying a ticket worth over EUR 50 , you are required to present either your passport , national ID , or your BahnCard . One final tip : if travelling by local train or suburban rail services ( S-Bahn ) , you need to buy your ticket before boarding your train . As Deutsche Bahn mentions , make sure the train you are trying to board is not a local train ( you will have to pay a penalty fare if you are found in these without a ticket , costing double the ticket price or at least 40 EUR ) . The local trains include Interregio-Express , Regional-Express , Regionalbahn , S-Bahn . For the IC , ICE , ICN this would be completely valid and applicable and is a great lifesaver ! Trains with Reservations Some trains mandate reservations , such as the ICE-Sprinter or the <URL> . You must ask the ticket conductor for permission and ensure that there are empty seats on the train before getting comfortable in the train . Typically it 's easy to check if a seat has been reserved for someone . The reservation detail is shown by a display on top of the seat . All trains however do not offer this feature . This means that you can not go and grab a seat and wait for the train to start moving before you purchase the ticket from the ticket conductor . If empty seats are available on such a train and you are able to purchase a ticket ( along with a reservation ) , the ticket conductor will allow you to travel on the train . If you are found on a train which has mandatory reservation and has no empty seats , you will be asked to de-board on the next station . An ICE-Sprinter ( or CNL ) is never absolutely necessary in order to reach from Point A to Point B , but just in case you do take one of these trains , you want to avoid unnecessary problems . DB is not the only operator in Germany You must also take note that a significant portion of stock operated in Germany is not <URL> by Deutsche Bahn ( information provided by @Tor - EinarJarnbjo ) . Deutsche Bahn <URL> about 34,000 km of the 41,000 km of railway track in Germany , but many other private companies run their stock on this network as well . Alas , Deutsche Bahn does not operate most of the regional trains anymore in Germany , but most of the operators apply the same DB rules ( and in addition the regional " Verkehrsverbund " rules ) . There are <URL> ( in near future only four ) non-DB long distance services in Germany not operated by DB , but none of them stops at any airport . ( information provided by @neo )
Buy two full-fare tickets . They are typically fully refundable . Obviously , check before you purchase . You typically buy directly from the airline . Then , whether she says yes or no , get them refunded and buy something sane . You 'll have to pay a small charge , but nothing compared to the fare difference . Or -- and this is cheaper if you are going to just print the ticket yourself -- forge the tickets completely . Just take an old ticket and replace the dates and destinations .
Great idea ! Hiking in southern Poland is very popular , and there is thousands of hiking trails all over Carpathians . It all depends what you like and how high you wish to go , because there is huge variety of mountain ranges from mostly forest mts like Beskidy or Bieszczady ( around 1000-1500 m.a.s.l. ) to higher more rocky ranges like Tatry ( Tatra in English ) reaching 2500 m.a.s.l. Feel free to ask for details , I 'm quite familiar with many of them so I can advise you basing on your preferences and experience . Maybe one thing to have in mind is that currently the weather may not be as nice as in mid summer , but there are couple of nice days being forecast for this week .
Very , very easy . Any bank in NZ will happily exchange those for you , or indeed as you step off the plane , there are several currency exchange places at all the international airports . Be aware that the airports can sometimes offer worse rates than banks in town - but it depends how much you 're exchanging of course , as to whether bothering with the effort is worthwhile .
It 's of course possible to exchange currency in Irkutsk . It 's a big city with a population of some 600 thousand , roughly the size of Helsinki , Stuttgart or Lisbon , so it certainly has a lot of banks and currency exchange points , any of which can be expected to accept Euros . A <URL> in the city , you will surely be able to find one close to your location in the city , especially if you arrive by rail , which is a major transportation method there . <URL> showing the current exchange rates for EUR in Irkutsk . The three major numbers , left-to-right , are : the central bank 's exchange rate , best buy rate in the city , best sell rate in the city . As of this moment , the best rate for selling EUR is at Гринкомбанк ( Grinkombank ) , at 74.1 rubles per Euro , with the official exchange rate of the Russian central bank being 73.63 .
As per Lonely Planet <URL> , only currency that can be withdrawn in Zambia is Zambian Kwacha . If you have make payment in USD , then either carry the cash in USD or withdraw money in Zambian Kwacha and buy USD from the banks . In case you decide to carry cash in USD , keep in mind few things ( quoting from the above link ) - All USD must be new editions ( 2006 for some denominations and 2009 for others ) . No creases , no marks . Carry large denominations ( $ 50 and $ 100 ) as they can only be changed as the exchange bureau All ATMs accept Visa cards , but most do n't accept your Master Card And also there was a ruling in June 2012 that companies are not allowed to deal in USD and can only accept the local currency Kwacha . So check with the places where you were asked to pay in USD once again , they might ask you to pay in Kwacha after this ruling . PS : Zambia is changing its currency in January 2013 and dividing their currency by 1000
I spent 47 days in Guatemala in 2009 as a backpacker and I did not have any problems even while taking local buses in Guatemala City and walking around there quite a bit . However I did hear from tourists who were victims of petty crime and you also see ' security guards ' with machine guns all over the place . Usually next to banks and more expensive shops . I also heard that richer local families still only go out with security guards . It 's all a bit different if you are going with your family , especially with young kids . It is hard for me as an experienced single traveler to say how a family would be treated there . Just going to the top tourist attractions does not help , on the contrary , place like Antigua have more petty crime than other similar sized towns just because there are so many tourists there . Many local tourist offices just sell tours that are then organized by other agencies . I 've heard some horror stories from people who did book tours . So my advice would be to find other tourists who just came back from the tour you are planning to do and then ask them about their experience . So the question remains : ' Would I go with my kids ? ' Maybe not with a six month old , wait five years . Your kids will enjoy it more and the security situation is likely to be better too .
A BitCoin Visa debit is a Visa debit card , and will <URL> as one where <URL> are accepted . Where can I use my card ? ( BitPay ) You can use your BitPay Prepaid Visa ® card at any online or brick and mortar merchant that accepts Visa ® Debit cards . Where can I use my <URL> Debit Card ? At any merchant that accepts VISA . The Xapo Card works just like any other debit card , but instead of drawing funds from your bank account , it debits purchases directly in bitcoin from your Xapo main wallet . You can use the card for online purchases , to shop at your local store , or at ATMs . Where can I use my debit card ? ( Wagecan ) Almost everywhere ! Any retail , merchant , point-of-sale terminals and ATMs , as long as you see ' Card Issuer Accepted ' , you can use it . Note that not all companies will ship their cards to India , BitPay <URL> , Xapo <URL> and CryptoPay <URL> . <URL> seems to ship worldwide . According to this <URL> , BitCoin is not yet regulated in India , but it is n't illegal . As you 'd expect , adoption rates are higher in urban centres ( Mumbai , Delhi , Pune , Bengaluru , Hyderabad , Kolkata , and Chennai ) , but <URL> still seems <URL> . This <URL> and particularly this <URL> ( both July 2016 ) discuss the state of BitCoin in India .
According to <URL> , unless your car is amphibious ( like the Aquada ) , you 'll need to get it freighted to Hawaii . Fortunately this seems fairly common , and a quick google search gives a few results , including this on <URL> : According to them it usually takes three to four weeks , you will need a variety of paperwork and ( of course ) shipping insurance . But it 's certainly possible . However , you wo n't be driving WITH it . It 'll be being shipped . So that depends on your technicality rules for your challenge . Unfortunately , as per the same Wikitravel link , the days when everyone arrived by boat are gone . The only way you can get there yourself by boat is by cruise ship from the western coast of North America , for example , and I 'm not sure if any companies allow you to bring your own car , let along drive it onto the boat ...
Short answer : Yes , it 's possible ! Long answer : You will have to inform yourself with the airline you 're flying with if they allow bikes on the plane , how much it costs , and how big the box you put it in can maximum be . Also it might be interesting to know if they allow cardboard boxes ( otherwise you will have to get yourself a hard-case box to put your bicycle in ( which can be expensive ! ) ) . A lot of good information can be found here : <URL> ( I 'm not sure how up-to-date this one actually is , but it contains a list of a lot airlines and their regulations with respect to bicycles as luggage ! ) <URL> <URL>
Too late , but for future reference and other people who are wondering : I celebrated near Skövde . Every place we visited or passed on a roadtrip after midsommar had a midsommarstång , so you can go to basically any city . Examples near Copenhagen/Lund are Falsterbö and Vikhög . Pick a city , and search google images for " cityname midsommar " , to see where they celebrate , as it differs in every place ( some use a park in the village , others a castle , some might be on a beach , ... ) . So pick a place and see if you can reach it by public transport . Or pick a place you can reach , and see if it 's good for you . Since most people do n't celebrate in a city , but rather in a small town , a small village does n't mean the festivities will be small . Looking at footage from previous years should give a good impression about how and where it 's celebrated in a given town .
end question
start question
Where in Doha can I learn about Qatar 's history and culture , while the National Museum is closed ?
Thanks to a tip from my hotel , I 've discovered there is somewhere open in the mean time - <URL> . The Msheireb Enrichment Centre is located on a medium sized barge moored off the Corniche , just west of the Sheraton Hotel ( the triangular pyramid shaped hotel near the north eastern edge of the Corniche ) The exhibition is sponsored by Msheireb Properties , who 've apparently done lots of building works around Doha . No-one seems to know if it 'll stay long term , or close when the National Museum re-opens , but for now it 's your best bet for a short visit to learn about Qatar 's history and culture ! ( It 's at the other end of the Corniche from the Museum of Islamic Art , but there are public buses running round the Corniche you can take mostly between the two , if you do n't fancy the 4.5 km seafront walk )
Looking only at the legal aspects of this - and not at the suitability or recommendation of any particular walk . In England and Wales , you can walk on any public right of way , or on any open access land . Public Rights of Way include footpaths , bridleways , and byways . As a walker , you can go on any of those . You can get information on all of those from the Ordnance Survey , who 've got a useful <URL> giving the differences in more detail . You can <URL> from them for the areas you 're interested in , both digitally and in print . The print versions will also be available in common walking areas in local outdoor shops , newsagents and the like , as well as in bookstores ( <URL> in Covent Garden is particularly well known for maps and travel guides ) . You can also see OS maps for free via <URL> - the key is <URL> . But mobile reception in the hills can be sketchy , and it 'll be best to take an offline map of some description . Rights of way also include most roads . And , of course , you can walk on most roads - with the exception of Motorways , and any other roads where it 's explicitly banned . As a cyclist , you 're not allowed on footpaths . But you 're allowed on bridleways and byways , cycle paths and most roads . Open Access Land includes land above 600m , moors , heaths , Forestry Commission land and more . The <URL> describe what is now called the Right to Roam on this land . Broadly speaking , you can walk anywhere on it , and enjoy limited forms of outdoor recreation ( having a picnic is ok , swimming , cycling , camping , playing an organised game , lighting a fire are all banned - amongst many other things ) , Ordnance Survey maps show this land in a pale yellow colour , and <URL> have a definitive online map . As a cyclist , you do n't get free rein to go anywhere on Open Access Land - you 've got to stick to bridleways , byways and cycle paths .
To get a visa on arrival , you need to apply online for a pre-approval first . There are many agencies ( I used visa-vietnam . org several times ) , and they work fine , as long as you apply online several working days in advance . After a few days , they 'll send you a visa approval document which you need to bring to board the plane . Note that you can only use visa-on-arrival if arriving by air ( not if crossing the ground border from Cambodia/Laos/China ) . Vietnamese embassy officials in Bangkok are rude and corrupt . When I went there , they insisted on higher-than-posted visa fees . It also involves 2 trips to the embassy unless you opt for an expensive express service option .
Short answer , you ca n't . However , you can at least make sure they have an official license , and any other accreditation which might lend some credence to their claims . Look for ones that are licensed by the <URL> , and consider <URL> , to see if anyone has mentioned them or complained about them . All you can do is research , and ask around when you get there as well . Or consider approaching the companies and ask them directly - I 'm sure you 'd not be the first , even if it is rather brazen ;)
According to the <URL> , both are in Casper , at the First National Bank and the Hilltop National Bank .
There 's a good description of the difference between the two on the <URL> The full version is at the link above , but in short : National parks emphasize strict preservation of pristine areas . They focus on protecting natural and historic resources " unimpaired for future generations . " Park rangers work for the National Park Service ( NPS ) under the Department of Interior . National forests , on the other hand , emphasize not only resource preservation , but other kinds of use as well . Under this concept of " multiple use , " national forests are managed to provide Americans with a wide variety of services and commodities , including lumber , cattle grazing , mineral products and recreation with and without vehicles . The national forests are managed by forest rangers with the US Forest Service ( USFS ) under the Department of Agriculture .
Assumptions Let 's make some assumptions : The question " how far can I see ? " can be answered by asking " how far is it to the apparent horizon ? " <URL> By this definition , a taller vantage point allows to see farther than a lower one The <URL> The maximum height above sea level in Ethiopia is <URL> The Red Sea is a large puddle of water which is likely to be visible if located between the observer and the apparent horizon Some Data The apparent horizon distance from a point at a height of 2000m is 159.7 km The apparent horizon distance from a point at a height of 4550m is 241km The average distance between the Ethiopia-Eritrea border and the Red Sea is 60km ( calculated using my thumb as scale and google maps ) From where Can I See the Red Sea in Ethiopia ? Given the assumptions and the data above , one should be able to see the Red Sea from Ethiopia , given an observation point at a height of 2000m placed between the Ethiopia-Eritrea border and 90km from such border . The map below ( <URL> ) shows four circles with a a radius of 159.7 km , placed roughly at the border between Eritrea and the Red Sea . These highlight an area of land in Ethiopia from which the Red Sea should be visible . Moreover , an observer standing at the summit of the Ethiopian highlands should be able to see the Red Sea , since this is at a distance which is less than the distance of the apparent horizon calculated from that point . The yellow circle in the map below shows an area with a radius of 241km centred on the Ethiopian Highlands . This circle highlights the visible area from this point , a significant part of which encompasses the Red Sea . <URL>
As you said , sporting events are usually your best bet for a guaranteed National Anthem . While they ( usually ) are n't free , if you 're not picky about your sport , there 's probably more than a few that you can get for relatively cheap . Soccer ( football ) is in mid-season right now so tickets probably are n't that expensive and I know that there 're at least two teams in the area ( <URL> and <URL> ) . You can also check out minor league baseball , but that will be over by the end of September . Preseason tickets for any sport are also usually cheap . I noticed that the <URL> and <URL> will be playing that week . Basketball does n't start until October . Major League Baseball can be very hit or miss as far as ticket prices go at that time of year . There are almost aways some very cheap tickets available if you 're willing to sit in bad seats , but that 's up to you . Beyond the professional ranks , you can always check out some younger teams . For instance , a high school football game will also play the National Anthem before the game . That 's starting to get pretty far down the list of places you probably want to end up just to hear something you can get on your phone for less than $ 1 .
Unfortunately , I do not have a positive answer to this question . I have been looking around the web for a few days now and I am almost sure there is no such museum . I have been through the <URL> with the help of Google Translate but with no luck . There is not even one comment about such a museum in any website . I think I can safely say such a museum does NOT exist in South Korea .
There are numerous companies that offer mail scanning/destruction/forwarding services . They vary dramatically in price and service levels , so I 'd suggest a bit of research into whichever one you select would be a good idea . There is an excellent list of a number of the services including prices in <URL> . The rest of that thread ( click the thread link in the top right ) has some further suggestions , but be aware that there are occasionally straw-man posts in that and similar threads ( although most of them get deleted shortly afterwards ) . Personally I took a different approach . The majority of the places I receive mail from ( or at least , the ones I cared about ) had the ability to send as an email rather than via mail , so all of my bank statements , etc all come through as emails . The remaining mail I get sent to my parents , who generally hold it until the next time I 'm in the country to cull it out and find the one or two things in there that matter ! Things I do require more quickly ( eg , new bank/credit cards if the old one if expiring ) they simply re-package and send onto me .
<URL> allows you to specify almost any conveivable trip combination . You can specify the cities or airports to fly through , the layover times , the airline alliance or airlines and even the aircraft that you 're willing to fly . Example : If you wish to fly from London to San Francisco via New York with a stopover in New York of more than 48 hours on the outbound , only on aircraft operated by American Airlines , you would use LON : :O : AA * / minconnect 2880 to SFO : :O : AA * If you 'd like to further specify your requirements , I 'm sure we could supply you with the options you would need to use .
The National Express website is presumably the one you mean , where it <URL> . However , if you look further down the page , it says : London ( Shoreditch ) Bethnal Green Rd ( to Stansted Airport : Stop J opp Overground Stn ; or from Stansted : Stop K ) <URL> clearly shows the road running west-east , with the Overground station indicated on the same map . Hope that helps !
To be somewhat of a nitpick , there are two types of bounces . The more common type is when a visitor arrives who does not need a visa ( e.g. , Canadian , American ) or already holds a visa . I wrote a very detailed description of this in an article which starts with ... Sometimes people arrive in the UK and do not perform well in their landing interview ; some people lie , some plan to abuse the system , others exhibit strange behaviour , some appear to be incoherent . And others do not have a convincing reason to be in the UK , for example some people visit too often and other people appear to be a potential overstayer . A percentage of these visitors get ' bounced ' ( i.e. , turned around , denied entry , refused entry , sent home ) . This most frequently happens to Americans , Canadians , Austrailians , and New Zealanders . Even though these nationalities do not generally require visitor visas in advance , they are required to have a convincing reason to visit the UK and to exhibit that they are not a potential overstayer . What happens when somebody gets bounced ? Clearly many situations are too hopelessly complex to even attempt explanation in an article like this ; but we can take a look at some common features . Things begin with the Immigration Officer ( IO ) , who may have observed the person acting strangely ( or stressed ) in the queue , or who may not be satisifed with the response to one of his questions ( for example lying or intending to break our laws ) ; or worse , the person is flagged up on the computer . At that point the IO will remove the person from the rest of the traffic so that other travellers can be processed . This is called ' being detained ' . The first level of detention is a segregated area in the arrivals hall . The person detained may be escorted to the luggage collection area to collect their luggage and to consign this to UKBA for inspection . The complete article is here ... <URL> The other type of bounce is when someone is transiting the UK and does not have the requisite DATV visa or fails to qualify for the concession . These are not very common because the Immigration Act 2000 stipulates fines for the airline and as a result the airlines will apply lots of diligence before take off . In the usual case , the person will not be allowed to board the flight . The Office of National Statistics produces a report that indicates the OVERALL chance of a bounce is 1 in 3,000 , and I think the bulk of those are of the first kind . If you subscribe to their publications you will get an email notification when new statistics are available . Our laws mandate that the decision to admit or bounce lies solely upon the Immigration Officer who conducts the landing interview with the agreement of the duty CIO . I have never seen a case where a CIO has overruled an IO 's decision , but the law allows for it to happen . You would be surprised at how many are American women coming over to see a guy they met on the net . It 's fine to do that , but incredibly they lie about it and get caught in a lie . If an IO catches you in a lie , you are out of here . So what goes through an IO 's mind when they smell a bounce ? What are they thinking ? What signs are they looking for ? Fortunately , the Home Office Research Unit has published two studies on exactly this topic . Do n't ask me for the links because I make hard copies and save them on my hard drive , and the Home Office site gets reorganized at the drop of a hat anyway . Any link I posted would be rotted following the next election . Basically the IO will suspect single women travelling alone , young men with lots of technical gear , people with lots of cash , people presenting brand new passports who have recently renewed their passport ( you 'll understand why ) , people with no peripatetic history , people who are stressed or acting nervous , and the list goes on . Business men and women , for example , get bounced frequently because they do not have a work permit . Once you get bounced , you 'll have your biometrics on file plus your passport will be recorded ( changing passports does not help ) . And whether you like it or not , your biometrics will be sent to the USA . So to answer the question : Yes , reports have been published on how the IO reaches a decision ; and yes , statistics are available . Posting their links in SO invites quick rot . Having said that , you can use this link to get started . <URL>
I 'm from Christchurch ( although I live in Sydney at present ) . Yes , certainly . <URL> has reopened and has some stuff about the city . However , in the ' container mall ' known as <URL> , there 's an information center with a lot of info on the history . It 's coordinated by the museum and the exhibit/place is called <URL> . It has an interactive exhibit on the city , the science of the quakes , the damage and the rebuild . The <URL> , and it 'll take you through the heart of the city and see a lot of the damaged areas . If you want some preparation work , try and watch <URL> . You can see <URL> . It 's a documentary iniitally about the first quake that did n't do much damage , but then when the big one hit , they ran into the city as others ran out , so the footage is incredible . It 's very well done and most of my Christchurch friends found it very good , if a bit upsetting to recall the events of the day . ( Also the small aftershock we had in the cinema while watching did n't help ) . Nobody is going to really criticise you taking pictures of the Cathedral and other damaged landmarks . One of the biggest things is that Chch has lost a lot of its heritage , and as a result , photos that document the before , the during and the after all help . Enjoy it , and try some Dmitri 's Souvlakis , the best street food in Christchuch ( and my old neighbours ;) ) .
Round-the-world fares do exist . Most airline alliances and occasionally single airlines offer around the world fares . <URL> ( includes British Airways , American Airlines , Cathay Pacfic ) <URL> ( includes Lufthansa , United ) <URL> It can be very cost effective , especially for premium class ( business and first class fares ) . There are limits on all of them , usually they prevent backtracking across a continent , a limited number of segments , and only visiting each continent once ( once you leave you do n't go back ) . <URL> is a forum with a lot of trip reports done on RTW fares ( check the trip reports forum ) . In response to your comment , usually if you arrive at one airport and depart from another then that counts as an overland segment and counts towards your ticket usage . For example , if you flew from New York to Berlin , took the train to Madrid , and then flew out from Madrid to Cairo , three segments would be used : New York - Berlin Berlin - Madrid ( overland segment ) Madrid - Cairo It does n't matter if you fly or not , it still takes away from your overall segment limit . A segment refers to one specific flight .
According to <URL> you can buy it at various certification agencies ( TÜV , DEKRA ) and theoretically any auto repair shop that 's certified for doing emission tests ( though apparently many do n't offer this service ) . You need to show them the vehicle license and registration papers , from which they determine whether your car can get such a badge , and which one . Here 's <URL> in English from a TÜV website , and here are lists of branch offices where you should definitely be able to get the badge : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Buses are leaving from the Ortachala bus station 4 buses a week 20 Lari from Tbilisi to Baku Source : <URL> For times and confirmation of the service , I would still go over to the bus station . The <URL> also mentions buses from Marneuli ( 30km south of Tbilisi ) to Baku .
While what constitutes a " best " spot is subjective , here are some popular options : <URL> This road is located in Tokyo , between the Gaienmae and Aoyama-Itchome stations . The best time to visit is from mid-november to early december . <URL> <URL> While this doesnt feature only Ginkgo trees , you can enjoy the view in this traditional japanese garden . <URL> <URL> The temple grounds feature many Ginkgo trees , plus you get so visit one of the biggest temples around . <URL> The lesson here is that there are n't many dedicated spots for Ginkgo trees , but they are more or less omnipresent in Japan . Visit during the end of november and you are sure to get your fill of beautiful colors . <URL> <URL>
You have four options , although you may need to wait for a couple of them ... <URL> houses permanent and temporary exhibits relating to sport and the Olympic movement . However it 's closed for renovations until the end of next year . <URL> in Hakon 's Hall in Lillehammer , was officially opened by King Harald V and Queen Sonja on November 27 , 1997 . It is the only museum in northern Europe that presents the entire history of the Olympic Games . <URL> used to be just a Sports Museum , but was moved to a new building in 2004 during the Olympic Games year in Athens , and was redesignated as the Olympic Museum . In 2014 , <URL> . Interactive exhibits will gather together London 2012 memories , show how the venues were built , and seek to inspire future generations .
While there are many dedicated and local sites that you can find for concert listings , I find that <URL> usually has everything . Especially for large cities like New York , Toronto , and Montreal it will definitely cover everything , no matter how esoteric your music tastes are . And if you ' scrobble ' your listening to Last.fm , it can even help you narrow down the listings to artists you listen to more - because in any given month if you 're looking at the complete list you 'll be looking at dozen of entries for each week .
end question
start question
Can we carry three new smart phones in hand luggage to India ?
The situation is a little complicated and there a few things you must consider . First of all I 'm going to tell you about all the legal prospects of this situation and what can happen if then open up your bags and find two packaged phones inside . Take a look at this <URL> already posted here . Now , since these are two packaged phones , despite being underneath your limit of Rs . 33000 , they are items which can be re-purposed by anyone else which quite honestly is what you are doing here because of the fact that you are giving them to your parents . Even though you do n't plan to sell them , you still wo n't take them back with you , so they are technically imported into the country . Now , one second thought , you could take the phones out of the packages and put them either in your suitcase or your hand-luggage . Now , is this fool-proof ? Obviously No . And the reason it is n't is because you are importing things into the country and if they ask you to pay import duty on it , your only argument can be , " Hey these are for my own use ! " Now , if the two phones are packaged , this argument is far less convincing . Otherwise they might let you thru without much issue . Keeping this in mind , if the phones are in your hand luggage and are not packaged , you should be fine . If you decide to take them in your luggage without the packaging or packaging separately in different luggage or something , that would be pretty fine too ! If you do decide to take them as packaged goods , that 's up to your own risk .
If you hire a car service , the driver will usually be able to assist you door to door ( with a suitable tip , of course ) . The advantage to a hired car is that the driver will be able to park it in the garage and help you with the luggage from your living room right up to the airline counter -- whereas a taxi driver will be loathe to leave their ride . Car services are popularly thought to be the province of the super-rich but if you price them out , they are actually not too extravagant , especially given the circumstances here . When you call the dispatch ( reservations center ) , tell them about your medical condition and ask them if they can get you a driver who wo n't mind helping you with your luggage .
By regulation no . For the online ticket , <URL> : Online-Tickets are non-transferable and are only valid for the person named during booking ( and travellers accompanying them , if applicable ) . The tickets are valid only in connection with the traveller 's selected identification card . In practice , they swipe the card and if it 's not entirely obvious that the wrong person has handed them the credit card ( e.g. obvious male name on card given by a female person ) they most likely wo n't notice . Does n't make it legal though .
Very , very easy . Any bank in NZ will happily exchange those for you , or indeed as you step off the plane , there are several currency exchange places at all the international airports . Be aware that the airports can sometimes offer worse rates than banks in town - but it depends how much you 're exchanging of course , as to whether bothering with the effort is worthwhile .
There is only one location that checks all your boxes , and no others come close : Istanbul . The west part of the city ( its historical center ) is considered to be in Europe , the part on the eastern side of the Bosphorus strait is in Asia . There is a bridge that you can drive over , the city is extremely scenic with many beautiful mosques and the Hagia Sophia , and it does n't get much more historically significant ; it was the capital of the Eastern Roman Empire , of Byzantium , and of the Ottoman Empire . Other than that , the border between Europe and Asia is ill-defined and although the concept of the border is of historical significance , there wo n't be much of a historically significant or even visible physical border on the ground . The usual convention is that the border runs along the Caucasus and Ural mountain ranges , mostly in Russia , but I do n't think you 'll find nice marked crossing points there . Some people opine that Mount Elbrus in the Caucasus is also on the border , but according to <URL> it 's actually north of the Caucasus watershed that is usually used as the border . It 's Europe 's highest mountain at 5642m , relatively easy to climb and some scientists have actually managed to get to the summit with a Land Rover ( see the article ) , but I do n't think it qualifies ... Edit : actually it is apparently wrong to say that the border is invisible elsewhere -- in the Urals there seem to be some monuments marking it , see e.g. <URL> , which has pictures of a few of them west of Yekaterinburg .
The crucial point here is to fit 4-5 people , and their luggage , in a car comfortable enough when driving for long stretches . To this purpose any comfortable station wagon , or even a people carrier if you can manage operating it in narrow driving scenarios such as parking in city centres , will do . To help you choose , car renting websites often specify the comfort of a car in terms of the number of people and luggage they can fit . Regarding weather conditions keep in mind that local regulations might require you to fit your car with winter equipment - tyres or snow chains - which is mandatory during the months you will be travelling . <URL> , for example . There are a number of questions ( see <URL> for example ) on TSE detailing this , have a nice read .
While there are many dedicated and local sites that you can find for concert listings , I find that <URL> usually has everything . Especially for large cities like New York , Toronto , and Montreal it will definitely cover everything , no matter how esoteric your music tastes are . And if you ' scrobble ' your listening to Last.fm , it can even help you narrow down the listings to artists you listen to more - because in any given month if you 're looking at the complete list you 'll be looking at dozen of entries for each week .
The prohibition applies to liquids , gels and aerosols . Since you describe the food as squidgy it will with very high probability be considered a gel and not pass . My advice is to take freeze dried camping foods in your hand luggage . Those are entirely dry and pass without any problems ( source : I do this all the time ) .
This trick is used by many Piece of Plastic on bottle before you close the cap That will prevent spills . After that put it in ziploc type plastic bag Check at home before you put it in luggage .
Probably yes , via Europe , it should be possible , but you might have to travel parts of the journey overland . It will take a long time . You might not depart exactly from Washington DC , but I will assume elsewhere along the US east coast should be fine as well -- the travel from DC to the starting point of the ocean journey will be much less than the time for the rest of the journey , anyway . Also , I 'm not sure if you can disembark on a freighter in India , but perhaps you can disembark a couple of days ' train journey away ( still checking ) . You 're looking for <URL> . You might need to combine different freighters . They wo n't take a direct way , but will make many stops along the way that are not directly useful for you . For example : <URL> . <URL> in 17 days , or <URL> in 12 days , or <URL> in 11 days . <URL> . This may be more difficult ; the linked page states Embarke or disembarke in India or Pakistan is not possible anymore , but perhaps there are others travelling there . <URL> lists a freighter travelling by Antwerp , Bremerhafen and Rotterdam to Pakistan and India , six times per year . They do n't state any limits on disembarking , but contact them to be sure . It does n't list the exact travel time , but I would guess 3 -- 4 weeks to get from Europe to India ( the round trip time Europe -- India -- Europe is listed as 58 days ) .
If the liquid is red , it 's mostly likely alcohol ( ethanol ) , not mercury ( so less of an issue - even if it broke it would be no worse than spilling a few drops of wine ) . Even small mercury thermometers are <URL> , as Johnny says : By the TSA and some other authorities ( but Cathay Pacific , for example , does not allow them ) . So I think it should be okay , but you never know - you might lose it if some overzealous agent deems it a danger .
I 've tried to pull it off on two Ryanair flights recently and the answer is : yes , they allow it . No one bothered to check the dimensions of my laptop case , but they did ask to measure the large bag on both occasions . On the last flight the cabin was so full , some people were forced to surrender their hand luggage to be checked into the cargo hold , but my laptop bag was still safely ignored . I ca n't guarantee an overzealous employee somewhere wo n't bother checking the exact dimensions of the second bag , but it seems quite unlikely .
You do NOT have to return back to your home country . It 's perfectly fine to travel to the US from anywhere as long as you have the right visa . Many people leave their home countries once , travel to many places as long as they have the right visas , then finally go back home . They do n't have to go back home after every country they visit along the way . That 's not how visas work , and not how common sense works as well . Also , that 's why websites have multi-city bookings , that 's one of the reasons why real travel agencies ( eg . not online ) are still there , to be able to make such complicated itineraries . Your travel agent gave you a bad advice , he / she is either new to this , or has a plan to make more money out of this .
Yes ! There are indeed many meetups and hackathons that take place in India - I used to be involved in organising some of them - and while most of them have pre-registration , it is not necessary . Sessions are always conducted in English so this is not an issue you will face . The technical level of the events varies widely though : some are aimed more at getting general users more interested while others are more ' hardcore ' . On the whole though comparing them to hackathons / meetups in the UK , these are generally less technical as the events see huge crowds of university students with low exposure wanting to learn . So the meetups are also usually very large in participation size ( think 100s of participants ) rather than dozens . While I have been out of the meetups scene in India for a while , there appears to be some amount of grumbling that the events sometimes are n't technical enough . The best thing would be to look for announcements on the <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and BarCamp . As you can see , there 's a heavy tilt towards free/open-source technologies ( and from your site , that 's probably not what you 're interested in ) . My best suggestion would be to look out for next Unpluggd or BarCamp ( each major city has its own organising group , so there 's not single site to link to , just search online ) as these see a slightly more diverse and mature crowd .
I think the answer is the same than for your other question . As WiFi stations are not listed in the <URL> you should be able of carrying one in your hand luggage . The only restriction that you should find is that it might be turned off for the entire flight .
If you are flying economy If you have a baby flying with you : Take the first row of the zone you are setting in . First rows are usually where the fittings for the baby basinets are available . Also , you will be close to toilets to change diapers and so . If you are travelling with kids : Take a side of a row next to the window at the beginning or end of a zone . The windows too keep kids busy and the end or beginning of a zone to be close to toilets because kids are frequent pee-ers and vomiters . If you want to sleep during the flight : Take a window seat in the middle of a zone . In the middle to be away from noise ( lavatories and galleys ) and a window seat so no one bothers you to get in or out . If you are planning to stay awake during the flight : Take an aisle seat , will be easier for you to get out and in anytime you want to stretch your legs or just to get little social in the plane . You are a teacher and traveling with group of kids , like in school stuff : Group the kids in one part of the plane , and take a seat at the very other side of the plane . Travelling with the significant other : Cinema rule apply here , take two seats at the end of the plane either on the left or right . In many wide bodied airplanes the last row on the sides have only two seats due to the shape of the fuselage . No one will be sharing the moment with you ! If you are flying First or business class This is extremely different from one airlines to another , some airlines even provide shower rooms , bars and other services . You will get the best of the airline in these classes , limited number of passengers and many services . So no worries . Please note : I said zone , not class . Classes can have multiple zones , especially in economy class in wide bodied airplanes . A zone is usually the area between two sets of doors with a bulkhead separating them .
Probably , but with care Although the EU security regulations do n't prohibit spare batteries , there are separate safety restrictions . <URL> state that : Spare batteries < 100Wh are permitted in cabin baggage , but not in the hold . You can only carry two spare batteries between 100-160 Wh , again only in the cabin . Batteries over 160Wh are not permitted . In all cases , each battery must either be in a separate plastic bag , or have its terminals covered to prevent a short circuit . The <URL> for example are a little more restrictive , requiring airline approval for anything between 100-160Wh . Not sure whether any EU member states have similarly strict guidelines . For comparison , a laptop battery is typically less than 100Wh
This <URL> in a <URL> thread on flyertalk shows a boarding pass which indicates a personal item is allowed : <URL> and others posted in positive too . Unless something changed in the last year ( and there 's no trace of that ) you are good to go .
There is no SanXingDui art museum in Chengdu , you have to go to GuangHan . The " museum " displayed by google maps is a store . Source : I asked friends . They confirm that the place in the streetview below at the location reported by google is a store and that the real museum is the one out of town in GuangHan . Details : Google does report a SanXingDui art museum in the city across from the WuHou park but as @dlanod points out in his excellent comment " the address [ ... ] seems to be lifted from <URL> which actually describes the same Sanxingdui Museum [ i.e. the one in GuangHan ] , and <URL> . " [ actually the website is down right now for me . ] Checking the map/street view of Baidu ( the Chinese Google ) for this place reveals a 三星堆玉器 , SanXingDui jadeware . Given the location in a shopping area , it seems to be a store for sanxingdui inspired ornaments . <URL> . Two friends from the area confirmed that this is merely a store . I reported the wrong listing to Google three months ago but nothing had changed as of today . The good museum is <URL> , 29km out of Chengdu . Update : A friend send me a picture that shows a sign for a 三星堆艺术馆 ( SanXingDui museum ) <URL> . However , as of <URL> that is only a sign with nothing behind it as of 2014 : Q : 三星堆艺术馆怎么样 A : 问了保安 ， 说是已经没有了 。 只有一个空招牌而已 。 Very loose translation of mine : " What is the 三星堆艺术馆 ( SanXingDui museum ) like ? " " Watch out . It does not ( / no longer ) exist . There is only an empty sign . "
You could change without the rental firm knowing , but it 's very risky . Suppose there is an accident while the other driver is driving . If there are any witnesses to the accident ( drivers of other vehicles , for example ) , the company will find out . When considering this possibility , remember that endeavoring to drive very carefully does n't help very much , because your car could be in an accident caused by another driver . If that happens , any insurance will likely be invalid , leaving you responsible to pay for any damage . There could of course be additional penalties for renting the car fraudulently . The second driver fee is probably relatively small even considering the relatively remote possibility of the above .
end question
start question
Do I need a visa to visit Belarus if I have a Russian visa ?
In short the answer is yes you do need a separate visa for Belarus . Your Russian Student Visa does n't allow you to enter Belarus . The reason that it has the names of both countries is because the form they use is exactly the same . From the <URL> : Although Russia and Belarus use the same migration card , travelers should be aware that each country maintains its own visa regime . U.S. citizens wishing to travel to both nations must apply for two separate visas . A traveler entering Russia directly from Belarus is not required to obtain a new migration card , but at his or her option may do so if blank ones are available at the time of entry .
I would expect most countries to allow exceptions to their usual immigration procedures in cases of emergency ( there may even be some pieces of international legislation about this ) . Japan does , in <URL> : In the case of disease or any other accident which urgently requires the landing of a foreign national aboard a vessel or aircraft for the purpose of medical treatment , an immigration inspector may grant permission for emergency landing to the foreign national concerned based on an application by the captain of the vessel or aircraft or the carrier who operates the vessel or aircraft until the cause thereof ceases to exist , subject to a medical examination by a physician designated by the Minister of Health , Labour and Welfare or the Minister of Justice . ( Note that in Japanese immigration parlance , landing means entering Japan by passing through immigration , etc. )
Then normally , for most people , you would require a visa . However , keep reading , there is good news , I 'm just including all information for future people reading this . <URL> - for Indian passport , living in the US , you still need a visa , whether for business , tourist or transit purposes . <URL> also confirms - visitors to Canada from India require a visa . The Niagara Falls Live <URL> also confirms : Persons wishing to travel to Canada whom are not U.S. citizens ( ie : foreigner ) may be required to get a tourist visa from the Canadian consulate in the country from which they are arriving from . If you are in the USA on a visa and wish to visit Canada while in New York there is a Canadian consulate located in Buffalo New York . YOU CAN NOT OBTAIN A TOURIST VISA AT ANY OF THE BORDER CROSSINGS . When contacting the Consul , inform them that you wish to obtain a " temporary resident visa " . As of April 1st 2012 the fee per person is $ 75 for a single entry visa , $ 150 for a multiple entry visa or $ 400 for a family ( multiple or single entry ) . However , going back to the <URL> page : Visitor Visa Exemptions Many people do not require a visa to visit Canada . These include : persons lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence who are in possession of their alien registration card ( Green card ) or can provide other evidence of permanent residence ; so it appears , in fact , that you would be totally fine , as you are in possession of a valid green card ! Update - As of 2016 , there is a new entry requirement in effect . US Permanent Residents ( " Green Card " holders ) entering or transiting Canada by air <URL> for an <URL> ( Electronic Travel Authorization ) to fly to or transit through Canada unless they are otherwise <URL> . This requirement does not apply to those entering by land or sea .
As far as I know , no . You do need a place to stay however , right ? As you correctly mention , no official sources mention the requirement of a hotel booking . The relevant text from TIMATIC is given in <URL> and no hotel booking is mentioned . <URL> does not mention it and neither does the <URL> or <URL> . He does mention however : The agents at the airports know next to nothing about the 72-hour visa-free transit rule . And I 've come to make similar experiences . Stand your ground , ask for a supervisor or read the rules on their screen with them if necessary . However you do have to stay somewhere when in China and you do have to put down an address on your <URL> at immigration . This could be any address but I would n't just make one up . <URL> , which is done by the hotel if you stay there , or if you stay with a friend they have to go to the police station to register you ( even though I know of a lot of couchsurfers/airbnb hosts skipping this step ) . ( Finally , it is not a " 72 hour transit visa " but a " transit without visa " . )
Yes . The US does not have airside transit , you will need a C-1 transit visa or B-2 visitor visa .
You need to carry with you proof of your stay ( and your return ) , and that you 'll have enough funds to cover your trip ; as you may get asked for it . For example , the immigration officer might ask for : Your return ticket . Where you are staying ? How long do you plan on staying ? How you plan on supporting yourself ? What is the purpose of your trip ? Keep in mind that a visa is not a guarantee of entry , just permission to go knock on the door . So be prepared with documents that support your intended purpose of stay .
Tattoos or <URL> as they are called in Japanese were criminalized in the beginning of the Meiji period ( some time after 1868 ) as a way to make a good impression on the west . ( A bit ironic in this case ... ) It was legalized again after the war in 1948 but still retains its image of criminality . For many years , traditional Japanese tattoos were associated with the yakuza , Japan 's notorious mafia , and many businesses in Japan ( such as public baths , fitness centers and hot springs ) still ban customers with tattoos . ( from wikipedias <URL> article )
According to <URL> you can not extend your stay for more then 30 days and even then in the case of emergency . The good news is that noone yet canceled availability of B1/B2 visas for the citizens of VWP countries . So if you obtain a <URL> , which you should n't have a problem doing you can enter the US for the period of 6 months and hike one of the trails before you have to leave the country .
Customs officers generally make a judgement call . They want to know that you will be in the country only temporarily , and that you will not try to work without a work permit . I often arrive in countries with no local cash at all , but I have a bank card where I can withdraw cash on arrival and that 's no problem . If you have no cash , no credit card , and no bank card , how will you eat ? Where will you sleep ? They begin to suspect there is something you are not telling them . On the other hand if you arrive with $ 10,000 in cash , that will draw attention for other reasons . They want everything you bring to make sense and match with everything you say . You 're not planning to work ? Then why have you brought your special tools that you use for being a welder or a hairdresser or a fashion photographer ? You 're just here to visit a friend ? Then why have you brought all the clothes you own , family photo albums , and a collection of " we 'll miss you ! " cards from friends and family ? How much money you have with you fits into that thought process as well . There is an aspect of unfairness to all this , because it 's not as simple as " bring $ X and you 're all set . " It is a judgment call . Laws say things like " enough money to meet your needs " but obviously different people have different needs , and different lengths of trips , and different support from friends and family . Nothing is ever cut and dried at borders . And then there 's even just the matter of whether they check . If you 're well dressed and are carrying credit and debit cards along with stuff that suggests tourism , you 'll be treated differently than if you look like a hippy and are carrying only one debit card and some pot smoking paraphernalia . Once you 're in secondary they can check your criminal record , search the contents of computers , call the people you 're visiting and so much more that they would never do at primary . And then they might conclude they do n't want to let you in . I 've watched many episodes of Border Security ( I watch <URL> , but there are versions all over the world ) and listening in on them discussing how much money someone has it 's clear there 's no obvious number you know you 're ok as long as you have . It 's an overall presentation : logically , does what you are saying make sense and hang together ? If not , and they decide you 're arriving to work then they wo n't let you in . If you 're wandering the world with no clear ties to some other place , they might decide you want to stay here without applying to do so , and then they wo n't let you in . Etc. . You want to make sure you get across to them the truth of your situation , and it had better make sense .
According to the <URL> and taking into note that you are a Filipino Citizen you will require a visa to enter South Korea . The fact that you are a <URL> of the United States will not change this fact .
If you travel Portugal - Germany - Egypt , you will stay in the Schengen area till you leave Germany , you will have an internal Schengen area flight and get out of the Schengen area when you leave Germany . If your layover is long enough you can leave the airport . For most European airports they advise not to leave the airport if your stop is less than 5 hours , but it does differ between the different airports . On the other hand , if you fly from Portugal to Egypt and then to Germany , you would have left the Schengen area when leaving Portugal and would not be allowed into Germany , as your visit would be a second entry into the Schengen area .
Why yes there is . <URL> . You enter your nationality , destination , and any visas you already hold , and it will tell you if you need a transit visa or not . It also includes instructions for applying for one . HOWEVER : There have been changes taking effect Dec 1 2014 to which countries ' nationals require transit visas . Regardless of the link above , <URL> . Procedures remain the same . Beware that the exemption conditions for visa-less landside transit are slightly different from the exceptions for Direct Airside Transit . As of this writing , the page linked above erroneously refers to a document describing the landside exemptions even from its section about DATV ; refer to the <URL> for the actual DATV exemptions . As a summary ( but check for exceptions ) : You must arrive and depart by air , and your outbound flight must be booked and confirmed . You do n't need a transit visa if you would not need a visa for a tourist visit to the UK . A transit visa comes in two forms : Direct Airside Transit Visa ( DATV ) which is limited to 24 hours and you must remain ' airside ' ( i.e. can not pass through immigration ) and a Visitor in Transit Visa , which is valid for 48 hours and allows you to change terminals or airports . You must have all the necessary documentation for your final destination , including any visas . You are exempt from needing a transit visa under certain conditions . These can be found at <URL> . As of 25 June 2015 , the conditions are : You might be eligible for ' transit without visa ' if : you arrive and depart by air [ you ] have a confirmed onward flight that leaves on the day you arrive or before midnight on the day after you arrive [ you ] have the right documents for your destination ( eg a visa for that country ) One of the following must also apply : you 're travelling to ( or on part of a reasonable journey to ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and have a valid visa for that country you 're travelling from ( or on part of a reasonable journey from ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and have a valid visa for that country you 're travelling from ( or on part of a reasonable journey from ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and it 's less than 6 months since you last entered that country with a valid entry visa you have a residence permit issued by Australia or New Zealand you have a common format residence permit issued by an European Economic Area ( EEA ) country or Switzerland you have a residence permit issued by Canada issued after 28 June 2002 you have a uniform format category D visa for entry to a country in the EEA or Switzerland you have an Irish biometric visa and an onward flight ticket to the Republic of Ireland you 're travelling from the Republic of Ireland and it 's less than 3 months since you were last given permission , on the basis of holding a valid Irish biometric visa , to land or be in Ireland you have a valid USA permanent residence card issued by the USA on or after 21 April 1998 you have a valid USA I-551 Temporary Immigrant visa issued by the USA ( a wet-ink stamp version will not be accepted ) you have an expired USA I-551 Permanent Residence card issued by the USA on or after 21 April 1998 , with a valid I-797 letter authorising extension you have a valid standalone US Immigration Form 155A/155B issued by the USA ( attached to a sealed brown envelope ) You wo n't be able to transit without a visa if a Border Force officer decides you do n't qualify under the immigration rules . You can <URL> before you travel if you 're unsure whether you qualify for transiting without a visa . If you need more information than is provided by this website you will need to check with your airline or <URL> . The Home Office 's <URL> also provides some guidance on the subtler points of the rules ( it 's intended for professionals , not passengers , but does explain in great details when a visa is or is not required ) . Changes to the rules activating on 1 December 2014 A Statutory Instrument entitled " The Immigration ( Passenger Transit Visa ) Order 2014 " will make large portions of the above text obsolete . Please refer to the instrument itself at <URL> until further guidance becomes available . The government 's interactive page , which leads the user through a series of questions will take some time to sync up with the legislation ( if ever ) and should NOT be relied upon after the 2014 order takes effect . Note on UK Border Control In London Heathrow , if you fly from outside the UK or Ireland and leave to another country ( neither UK nor Ireland ) , it is possible to transit without entering the UK and going through UK Border Control , you can stay airside . There is no hotel airside , so <URL> , you have to go through UK Border Control . There is a <URL> available on Heathrow airport website . Update 25 July 2015 : Visa Seniority People on any kind of valid UK visa that is senior to a transit visa do not need an additional visa . It means the person ca
PEK-J268-GYD-J263 TXL has a layover of 1 hour 45 minutes in GYD . This is above minimum connection time and should be fine . However , Azerbaijan airlines ( J2 ) only has one flight per day from GYD to TXL so if you do miss it , they would most likely rebook on you on the next day and you would have to stay overnight . It is possible that they could also rebook you via another route and occasionally might rebook you to another airline , but I would doubt that . Airlines rarely wait for connecting passengers these days , but might if there are a considerable number arriving from a connecting flight . Your bag should be checked through to your destination and you should n't have to pick it up in Baku . Enter your citizenship and travel details in <URL> and it will tell you whether you need a visa . Timatic is the system the airlines use to determine whether you require a visa and thus wo n't carry you without it .
Indian nationals do not require a visa to enter Nepal . As per the Nepalese immigration , Indian nationals traveling to Nepal must posses any one of the following documents : Passport . Driving License with photo . Photo Identity card issued by a Government Agency . Ration Card with Photo . Election Commission Card with Photo . Identity Card issued by Embassy of India in Kathmandu . Identity Card with photo issued by sub-divisional magistrate or any other officials above his rank . Also , please check with your nearest travel agents for documents required by the Indian Immigration for Indians traveling to Nepal . Source : <URL>
No , Switzerland is supposed to reject the application and invite you to apply to the French consulate . Even staying the same length of time in both countries might not be enough , as attending the conference is clearly the main reason for your trip , which makes France the main destination . In practice , you could still try . In principle , they should not refuse the visa but merely decline to process the application , which means that you should get back the visa fee and the documents you submitted and there would be no record of a negative decision . So the damage should be limited and you do n't risk much by trying . But it 's still unlikely to work ( and it does take some time , obviously ) .
You have to make a distinction between the Schengen area on the one hand and the UK , Ireland , Cyprus , Romania , Bulgaria and Croatia on the other hand . All EU countries should grant your wife the right to travel together with you ( but not alone ) with minimal formalities but those that are not in the Schengen area might still require her to get a separate visa . For the Schengen area , you only need one visa . So if you want to go to Switzerland ( technically Switzerland is not in the EU but for this purpose , it 's pretty much the same for the time being ) , you would apply to the Swiss consulate . With the visa issued by the Swiss consulate you will also be able to travel in most of the EU without any other formalities ( but , again , not to the UK , Ireland , etc. ) If you really want to visit all non-Schengen EU countries , then yes , you might need up to 5 or 6 visas ( although Romania , Bulgaria , Croatia and Cyprus have some special rules for Schengen visa holders so it might be possible to go there with your wife 's Schengen visa as well ) . Furthermore , being married should in principle make things easier ( at least in the EU proper , not entirely sure about Switzerland , see comments ) . In your quote , " these " in " check what these are " should be something like a marriage certificate , not the whole documentation package ( insurance &amp; financials &amp; itinerary ) that other applicants have to provide and the consulates have very little discretion in deciding to issue the visa or not . The visa should also be free of charge ( regular Schengen visa fees are currently EUR 60 ) . Beware , however , all those rules only apply if you are travelling together as they are derived from your right , as EU citizen , to travel freely in the EU . Note that , since you are a UK citizen , these rules also do not generally apply to the UK . Going there might even be more difficult , depending on UK law .
After some inspection and asking few crew members . It turns out that if you enter any country within the Schengen area as a crew member then you can move within the Schengen area . Make sure you have your passport and a copy of the crew members General Declaration . UPDATE : I went to Amsterdam and came back , I asked the police at the station in Paris and he said it 's ok . Anyway no one stopped me or asked me . All went smooth just like a domestic trip .
You do not need a return ticket , as long as you can show a proof ( e.g. , letter ) that says come and collect your residency card ; In case the staff ask you about the intent of your trip to Denmark .
The <URL> " allows citizens of participating countries * to travel to the United States without a visa for stays of 90 days or less " . ( Ireland IS a participating country ) . Each traveller must have authorisation under <URL> . It costs US$ 14 , and the <URL> has all the information you would require . It takes up to 3 days to process , is valid for 2 years , and you need to have it approved before you leave for the US . It 's all done online . ( - and is fairly simple - I 've done it twice before , myself )
Just asked my Taiwanese friend . She said you have to apply for Tai BaoZheng which can easily be obtained in Taiwan through China Travel Agency . It normally takes 1-2 days . And you can also fly to China and get the Tai BaoZheng at the airport . However , not all airports have the equipments to do that you have to check with the embassy which airport can do that .
end question
start question
What gallery is Michelangelo 's David in ?
I went straight to Wikipedia for this . Their article <URL> states : David is a masterpiece of Renaissance sculpture created between 1501 and 1504 , by the Italian artist Michelangelo . It is a 5.17-metre ( 17.0 ft ) marble statue of a standing male nude . The statue represents the Biblical hero David , a favoured subject in the art of Florence . Originally commissioned as one of a series of statues of prophets to be positioned along the roofline of the east end of Florence Cathedral , the statue was instead placed in a public square , outside the Palazzo della Signoria , the seat of civic government in Florence , where it was unveiled on 8 September 1504 . Because of the nature of the hero that it represented , it soon came to symbolize the defense of civil liberties embodied in the Florentine Republic , an independent city-state threatened on all sides by more powerful rival states and by the hegemony of the Medici family . The eyes of David , with a warning glare , were turned towards Rome . The statue was moved to the Accademia Gallery in Florence in 1873 , and later replaced at the original location by a replica . So although you could see a replica at the Florence Cathedral , the real deal is currently at the Accademia Gallery , where it has stood since 1873 .
Assuming you 're driving a regular passenger car , the <URL> ( Czech wiki link ) for Czech Republic is : Spare <URL> Spare light bulbs <URL> Wrenches Spare tire ( or tire patch kit , if the tire is patchable ; or neither , for <URL> ) Medical kit Emergency warning triangle Reflective vest So no , you wo n't need a spare tire . The maximum fine for violating this law is 2000 CZK ( ~ 75 EUR ) , however the police rarely checks passenger cars for compliance .
Definitely not Ukrainian If you know Russian AND English you will be able to communicate with the vast majority of people . Now choosing the language to try first is a little bit tricky . I would say that with people who are definitely under 30 try English first . With people over 40 try Russian first . In Riga ( not sure about the rest of Latvia ) almost everyone speaks Russian on some level . Most Latvians there speak extremely good Russian . In Estonia it 's hit and miss but I would try English first . I 've experienced unwillingness to speak ( or even understand ) Russian from people who , I would assume , should at least understand it . But these are obviously anecdotal cases . Not sure about Lithuania since I live here and never experienced the issue first hand ( since I speak Lithuanian ) . From what I see , majority of 20-30 year-olds do n't speak and quite often do n't understand Russian . So I would definitely try English first with younger people . Most of the 40 + population knows Russian on some level . Willingness to use it varies from person to person , though , but I would n't say that these days there 's any serious bias towards pretending not to understand it . A lot of older people would n't understand English though .
The official place to exchange currencies is CADECA , this entity purchases and sell certain currencies according to <URL> . These rates are updated daily . You can find CADECAs in the airport , and in major cities . Exchange rates should be the same country wide . Note that you will be exchanging your GBP for CUC and not for Cuban Peso , Also note US Dollars used to have a penalty on top of the change , that you can skip by changing to other currencies first <URL> , but with GBP you will not get the penalty . Almost ALL of the services you will purchase as a tourist are conducted in CUC , so yes , you need CUC to do stuffs . Some private places like restaurants or rent houses do accept foreign currencies , because they can exchange them later in CADECA or in the independent marketplace which have better rates . I would not recommend you as a tourist to participate in such a marketplace , ( although the exchange rate is better than the official CADECA , for reference see <URL> : the Cuban 's craiglist-like website for exchange rates samples ) . I would recommend not to exchange all your cash at once , and go for an official CADECA in the airport and exchange some to pay for your taxi and get to your destination , $ 200 - $ 400 , or more if you need to pay for your booking upon arrival . If you 're going to a rent house maybe you can pay without make the change ( but keep the exchange rate in mind if you do so ) . When you need more cash go and exchange more again .
Actually NYP = <URL> . Pine Hill along with Adirondack and New York Trailways operate under the same umbrella of New York Trailways , hence NYP ( New York Pine Hill ) .
The official licensing authority in Namibia is the <URL> . The The Namibian Comunications Commission appears to have been replaced in <URL> . The CRAN web site is awful and I ca n't find anything on it . Instead , I searched for sites linking or mentioning cran.na and found the <URL> saying : Guest Licences for Radio Amateurs visiting Namibia In Namibia , there is only one application form which applies for all kinds of spectrum users ( from Commercial Broadcasting Service up to Citizen Band Service ) . This may seem unusual , but has been officially implemented by CRAN and thus has to be used also when applying for a guest licence . The site provides a link with an <URL> . You must attach a copy of your home licence and pay 60N $ ( approx USD$ 4 ) The cheapest way of paying your guest licence is in cash after your arrival in Namibia at the office of CRAN . Then your licence will be handed out directly to you . CRAN can send the licence to your contact person 's P.O.Box in Namibia if you pay in advance via the expensive electronic banking or via your local contact person . The issued guest licence is valid for the complete calendar year . I would recommend that you attempt to <URL> the site owners if you require further information .
Protected Areas Internationally speaking , both natural parks and natural monuments are defined as protected areas , which , according to <URL> , means : A protected area is a clearly defined geographical space , recognised , dedicated and managed , through legal or other effective means , to achieve the long term conservation of nature with associated ecosystem services and cultural values . The ICUN states that this is the most widely used definition internationally . Indeed , any protected area listed on the <URL> must comply with it . Regulatory Categories Moreover , the <URL> , in which we can find natural parks and natural monuments : Category Ia -- Strict Nature Reserve Category Ib -- Wilderness Area Category II -- National Park Category III -- Natural Monument or Feature Category IV -- Habitat/Species Management Area Category V -- Protected Landscape/Seascape Category VI -- Protected Area with sustainable use of natural resources These categorical distinctions provide guidelines to the purpose and regulation to be applied to different areas . Quoting from the ICUN website : II : National Park Similar to the objectives of Wilderness Areas , National Parks provide protection for functioning ecosystems , but tend to be more lenient with human visitation and the supporting infrastructure . National Parks are managed in a way that may contribute to local economies through promoting educational and recreational tourism on a scale that will not reduce the effectiveness of conservation efforts . The surrounding areas of a National Park may be for consumptive or non-consumptive use , but should nevertheless act as a barrier for the defence of the protected area 's native species and communities to enable them to remain sustainable in the long term . III : Natural Monument or Feature These are comparatively smaller areas that are specifically allocated to protect a natural monument and its surrounding habitats . Natural Monuments or Features can be natural in the wholest sense , or include elements that have been influenced or introduced by humans . The latter should hold biodiversity associations or could otherwise be classified as a historical or spiritual site , though this distinction can be quite difficult to ascertain . As such , The classification then falls into two subcategories , those in which the biodiversity in uniquely related to the conditions of the natural feature , and those in which the current levels of biodiversity are dependent on the presence of the sacred sites that have created an essentially modified ecosystem . Natural Monuments or Features have a high cultural or spiritual value which can be utilised to gain support for conservation challenges . USA National Monuments and Parks <URL> , in the USA the difference between a national park and a national monument lie in the fact that the former can be declared by the President of the USA , without him having to seek the approval of Congress . In terms of the general general regulatory differences between monuments and parks in the USA , I think that a a single answer can not be formulated . This is partly due to the fact that protected areas in the USA are not managed by a single entity . Indeed some are county - , other are state-managed . Moreover , some protected areas are used for commercial exploitation . <URL> Bottom line is that different areas have different rules , so always check in advance . As a final thought I would say that the USA regulations tend to follow the guidelines set by the ICUN . For example , this is true for national parks , which are often not only open to tourists but also " exploitable " ( fishing , camping , etc. ) .
According to <URL> , this is either <URL> line ( 3315 km ) , closely followed by Paris-Moscow ( 3217 km ) . I would have thought that the Venice Simplon Express on the route <URL> or the <URL> route would be a good candidate too , but I ca n't really find the distances . A google maps route plan using a car suggest that both are shorter than the above , but obviously this will depend on the exact route taken .
<URL> : Na uw aanmelding wordt een dagelijkse servicevergoeding van $ 1 aan u in rekening gebracht voor elke dag dat u Lebara Roaming Services gebruikt . Rough literal translation : After your subscrition , a daily service charge of $ 1 will be charged for each day you use Lebara Roaming Services . It 's not necessarily a bad deal but it 's not entirely free and $ 1 is quite a lot to spend on roaming charges to receive calls . If you are staying in the EU , you must consistently talk for more than 15-20 min a day on average to come out on top compared to other plans ( to be completely fair coverage is apparently broader and competing operators might charge more than that outside the EU so if you are frequently travelling in non-EU countries it could still be very attractive ) . And the duration is also capped at 120 min so it 's not unlimited either . If you use this roaming option for all of one month , that 's $ 30 on top of your regular credit and outgoing calls , which is the price of a premium plan/roaming package in many countries . Outgoing calls are not free and in fact only cheap with Lebara ONE ; the charge for outgoing roaming calls with their 10 = 20 offer is very close to the EU maximum , i.e. not a special deal at all in many cases . And the roaming option apparently does not include data , which is where most people run huge bills today . Note that this offer only looks too good to be true when you compare it to what many Dutch providers offer but roaming is one area where they are rather bad . And with increasingly tight EU caps , roaming charges are moving constantly and can still be expected to go down IMO . By contrast , in some places , unlimited calls to other European countries and the US are already included in all but the cheapest plans and in the Middle East there are some reasonably-priced contracts with unlimited roaming in dozens of countries . Last time I looked into it , such offers were n't available at all in the Netherlands , whether for mobile or VOIP landlines . But it seems perfectly doable , technically and economically , if the experience in other countries is anything to go by so Lebara might simply be trying to import a new model to the Dutch market and I certainly hope/expect even better offers to appear soon , without any catch .
Use the <URL> to find the best exchange rate in the city ( <URL> works great for Russian ) : As of today , <URL> has the best rates .
Open ticket means that the return date is not fixed . The date of the first flight is set ( although typically this can be changed for a fee ) . Assuming that it is an unrestricted ticket that means that you can get a return flight on any date usually up to a year after your outbound flight . You will need to call the airline to book a specific date once you know when you want to use the ticket . This will , of course , be subject to availability . You can not use it for a flight that is already fully booked . Assuming the flight is n't full , you could do this at the airport at the last minute . To buy an open ticket you will usually have to go through the airline or a travel agent ( i.e. not a website ) . Restrictions vary with price . All open tickets must be used within a specific timeframe ( at best 1 year ) . They are often only available for business class etc. . Some have a fixed return date that can be changed for a nominal ( or not so nominal ) fee ( useful if you have a ' I wont be longer than this ' date but would like the option to return earlier ) . Ask before you purchase the ticket . I should add that as these tickets are mostly used by business travelers , they are priced accordingly . They are rarely cheap .
Well <URL> , and found : <URL> Which has beds for US$ 1 per night . To quote : But , there 's a catch ... The $ 1 dorm beds are in a thatched-roof hut that is partially open to the elements . It appears that you do get a mattress , pillow , towel , and even a mosquito net , but that 's it . There 's also no proper locker system out there so you have to leave your valuables at reception when you are away . Nighttime average low temperatures are steady , ranging from 79F/26C in March to 68F/20C in January , and it 's always humid , so it might not be too comfortable on the warmest nights , but at least you 'll never be cold . Also , the dorm beds are right next to the kitchen , so you need to be prepared for some noise and smells while you are saving all that money . On the other hand , the Garden Village offers : So you really do get most of the normal benefits of staying at a hostel , even for this ridiculously low price . Want something better , Mr. Moneybags ? If you can afford US$ 6 per night you can get a " standard single " room of your own , ranging up to a " deluxe triple " room for US$ 13 . You ca n't book the $ 1 dorms online , but you can book all the other private rooms from their website . I 'm told you can reserve the $ 1 dorms by emailing them , so you wo n't have to just roll the dice and hope one is open . Lest you think the Garden Village is just trying to get people stuck in some remote place to sell them food and drinks , it is actually very well located , only a few blocks from Pub Street and the main tourist district of Siem Reap . Also , they have a good and cheap restaurant , plus 50-cent Angkor draft beers available all day at their sunset rooftop terrace .
18 hrs is doable . Go to Bhubaneswar to catch a flight to New Delhi . From Sambalpur there is train at 0635 hours to Bhubaneswar , takes around 4 hours and 30 minutes . Below is a list of them . It is a busy route , but you will be able to get a reservation easily . Go to <URL> and check the schedules or reserve a ticket . There are regular flights from Bhubaneswar to New Delhi , so flights will not be a problem . To check flights availability use <URL> or <URL> . Or if you do n't like trains , there are night buses which run very frequently from Sambalpur to Bhubaneswar . Check out <URL> . Else you can also go down to the bus station or to any of the agents selling bus tickets , but take a local with you who knows the language ( it is a very distinct version of Oriya which they speak there ) . Hindi will be fine but if somebody knows the local language it will be much better . Or you will be fleeced mercilessly . Pay a little more and take the Volvo bus , if available , as the road might get a bit bumpy at some places but the major part is fine .
If you have a GSM phone ( with a SIM-card ) , <URL> is likely to work in many places ( see the list in the link ) . Note that it will work whether you 're roaming , or do n't have a SIM in the phone at all and the phone is locked . That 's basically the only number you 're guaranteed by the GSM standard to always be able to dial , and the mobile operators are required to redirect it to whatever it locally should be .
<URL> there where 306 people climbing K2 , 30 of which died . This would result in a fatality rate of ca. 10 % . This table only includes actual successful ascents . <URL> including those who died during the ascent . I could n't find any number of attempted ascents though . On another note the success rate <URL> those last years than in the past .
You can probably look at <URL> , which lists potential food and waterborne diseases like : food or waterborne diseases acquired through eating or drinking on the local economy : Hepatitis A - viral disease that interferes with the functioning of the liver ; spread through consumption of food or water contaminated with fecal matter , principally in areas of poor sanitation ; victims exhibit fever , jaundice , and diarrhea ; 15 % of victims will experience prolonged symptoms over 6-9 months ; vaccine available . Hepatitis E - water-borne viral disease that interferes with the functioning of the liver ; most commonly spread through fecal contamination of drinking water ; victims exhibit jaundice , fatigue , abdominal pain , and dark colored urine . Typhoid fever - bacterial disease spread through contact with food or water contaminated by fecal matter or sewage ; victims exhibit sustained high fevers ; left untreated , mortality rates can reach 20 % . What else could potentially be in the water might depend on the region and industry such as potentially pesticides or other chemicals .
All ATMs in the Thai Bank Pool charge the 200 baht fee * , the two exceptions are Citibank ( only in Bangkok ) and AEON who charge 150 baht ( neither are technically banks which is why they are outside the pool ) . A traveler really needs to pull the max amount of baht allowed to keep the fee more minimal in terms of percentages . Most machines limit you to 20 notes , or 20,000 baht , though I heard a couple of bank chains now have new machines that will dispense 30 notes . You can go inside the banks and get a Visa or MasterCard cash advance . Some banks like Bangkok Bank do it without any fees , some others add a 2 or 3 % surcharge . But you need to use a Visa or MC debit card , not credit card , because credit cards charge you interest from the moment you get the advance , there is no 30 day grace period as you get on purchases . You also need to ask for an amount greater than the ATM allows or the teller will point you to the ATM machine outside . Travelers checks carry fees to exchange as well so are n't really any cheaper , plus only a few brands are accepted these days because too many counterfeits were circulating . Cash is , of course , the best in terms of no fees , but adds the worry for some folks about carrying that much cash around . With cash you need to make sure you have crisp new notes , banks are finicky about taking old tattered notes . You also need to consider that some currencies like the US Dollar , the rate you get depends on the denomination of the note , ie : you get a better exchange rate using $ 100 bills , than using $ 10 bills . * The ATM fee is scheduled to increase to 250 baht in August 2016
The day after I used one of the travel agencies to get the visa in Bangkok for 2200 Bath , I met someone who told me about the new Myanmar consulate in Chiang Mai . I went there the next day and you can get the standard 28 day tourist visa for 800 Bath ( 3 days ) or 1600 Bath ( one day ) . None of the five travel agencies I inquired at told me about this , either because they did n't know , or they simply did n't want to tell me , because they would lose my business . I had looked online at the official Myanmar government site and wikitravel.org and found no mention of the consulate . It was opened in July 2015 and is located near the north-west corner of the old city at :
GoSim 's " Global Number " is just a term for the UK ( +44 ) number they allocate to your phone . When you are in any of a relatively large number of countries , you do n't pay to receive a call when someone calls your " Global Number " . The reason they can do this because the number they allocate you is a UK " non-geographic " number , which charge a premium to the caller , and GoSim receive a percentage of that premium - basically the caller is subsidizing the call so that you can receive it for free . Some other similar companies work on the same principle but instead use numbers from the Isle of Man or Estonia . ( GoSim used to use Estonia +372 numbers , but changed a year or so ago ) . GoSim also give the option of a US number , which may be more convenient and frequently cheaper for the caller depending on what country they they are calling from , however you will be charged to receive the call whenever someone calls you on that number . This charge is because the caller is no longer paying extra to call the premium UK number .
" Open jaw " is very much a common travel industry term , and in fact you 'll find it specifically mentioned in the fare rules for many fares . Any travel agent you talk to will also be familiar with this term . There 's three different types of " open jaw " itineraries . The first is where your trip starts and ends at the same airport , but the destination on the outbound is different to the start of the return . eg , SFO-JFK , IAD-SFO would be an example of this - the start and end is SFO for both legs , but the return starts from a different location to the initial destination . The second type of open-jaw is when your trip starts at a different airport to where it ends , but via a single destination . eg , SFO-JFK-LAX The third type is a combination of both of the above . eg , SFO-JFK , followed by IAD-LAX . This is referred to as a " Double Open Jaw " , as in effect there 's an open jaw on both ends of the trip . The rules for open-jaws vary between airlines and even between specific fares . Normally the rule is that the " non flown " part of the journey has to be shorter than BOTH of the flown sectors . eg , given SFO-JFK-LAX , the non flown part of the journey is LAX-SFO . eg , SFO-STL ( 1735 miles ) and ORD-SFO ( 1846 miles ) is a valid open jaw as the distance between the two cities is 258 miles , which is less than both of the flown legs . SFO-LAS ( 414 miles ) and DEN-SFO ( 967 miles ) is NOT a valid open jaw routing , as the distance between LAS and DEN is 628 miles , which is greater than one of the flown legs . Recently I 've seen a few fares where the rules were that the non-flown sector had to be shorter than the LONGEST of the flown journeys . eg , the following is from the fares rules for a United Airline international flight : OPEN JAWS FARES MAY BE COMBINED ON A HALF ROUND TRIP BASIS - TO FORM SINGLE OR DOUBLE OPEN JAWS . MILEAGE OF THE OPEN SEGMENT MUST BE EQUAL/LESS THAN MILEAGE OF THE LONGEST FLOWN FARE COMPONENT . To understand why open-jaw matters , you need to understand a little of how airlines price flights . Many airlines will price fares differently for one-way v 's return journeys , with return trips generally being far cheaper than two one-way trips . This is n't always the case - especially for domestic flights - but for international flights it 's extremely common . Without a concept of open-jaw , a trip like SFO-SIN , BKK-SFO would have to be booked as two one-way trips , which would increase the price significantly . Booking as an open-jaw allows this to be priced as a much cheaper return trip .
end question
start question
What is the best way to get from Antwerp to Calp in Spain by train ?
Until quite recently , one option would 've involved a night train . However , with the opening of the high speed line across the French-Spanish border , and the associated through TGV trains , the night trains no longer run between France and Spain . It 's basically just daytime TGVs or local trains Your journey will be largely similar to one starting in the UK , so you can get an idea by looking at the <URL> . You 'll also need to get from Antwerp to Paris to catch the onwards TGV to Spain . Easiest and quickest would be Thalys , see the <URL> for more . Basically , though , it 's going to be a two day journey . One option is : Thalys ( or otherwise ) Antwerp to Paris , cross Paris , afternoon TGV to Barcelona , stay in Barcelona , morning train to Alicante Late train from Antwerp to Paris , stay in Paris , early morning TGV to Barcelona and mid-afternoon train on to Alicante
According to the <URL> , there is exit 2 with a staircase ( no elevators ) alighting on Place Bienvenue leading onto Avenue du Maine. : Accès Accès 1 : Porte Océane : accès direct dans la gare SNCF , escaliers et escalators Accès 2 : Place Bienvenüe : un escalier au 32 , avenue du Maine [ ... ] The exit can be seen on <URL> ( look for the yellow sign on top of the post ) . Assuming Google maps positioning is correct , <URL> .
Fist of all a short disclaimer : The blue market is an unofficial market not recognized by federal authorities and changing money there is illegal . Thousands of Argentinians use this market every day as buying dollars in the official market is almost prohibited by the government . I will try to answer your question without entering into the details of the current political and economical situation which is currently driving Argentina . As you pointed out , there are currently two very different rates for the Argentinian Peso ( ) According to Yahoo Finance the official exchange between $ 1 dollar and the peso is <URL> What you mention in your question is what is known as the Blue Market As stated in the disclaimer , currently it is <URL> for Argentinians to buy foreign currency which has made the price go up in the secondary market . You can find the current value per $ 1 on many unofficial websites like <URL> . As for today $ 1 is about $ 7.50 pesos Where can you trade in the Blue Market ? People selling the blue dollar are called " <URL> " ( little trees ) and places where you can buy/sell the blue are called " cuevas " ( caves ) While you are in Buenos Aires you can ask any cab driver , shop owner , hotel personnel , etc , for the closest arbolito or where to trade the blue market and they will be able to point you in the right direction . Disclaimer again : Remember it is illegal ( although AFIP ( Argentinian IRS ) does not seem to be chasing buyers )
<URL> has the experimental Maglev train . For fairly obvious reasons , they generally do n't have passengers - although there 's a practical section for it . Currently it 's about 18.4 km long and will become part of the Chūō Shinkansen connecting Tokyo , Nagoya , and Osaka - but at present it 's being extended to 42.8 km to be finished by 2013/2014 , at which point the 9 trillion Yen ( !!!! ) project to build the new fast Shinkansen will kick off ( it got approved earlier this year ) . Citizens of Yamanashi Prefecture and government officials in the area are eligible for free rides , and over 200,000 people have taken part thus far . <URL> has a population of around 860,000 - so that 's quite an impressive number of the city . HOWEVER , for paying customers ( unless you 're willing to settle in Yamanashi for a while and become a resident ! ) rides wo n't restart on the test track until they near completion of this current upgrade - likely on weekends and during the summer holiday time in 2013 or later ( if it runs over schedule ) , according to <URL> . So short answer , unless you move there or join the government , you 're going to have to wait a couple of years . And now you 've got me considering a trip to Japan in 2013 ;)
HSBC , then Credit Cards , then Banks There 's over 10 % difference between the best ( HSBC ) and the worst ( Travelex ) , so doing your homework can earn you several more cervezas ! This was a relatively small sample size , so if you want to be absolutely sure , call your own banks and credit cards . Best : Credit Cards A ) Credit Card Payments Each of the following includes a 2.5 % exchange fee MXN$ 4914 from RBC Infinite Avion Visa MXN$ 4913 from BMO Airmiles Mastercard MXN$ 4813 from Platinum Airmiles Amex B ) Credit Card ATM Withdrawals Each of the following includes a per-transaction fee and ignores cash advance interest charges MXN$ 4870 from BMO Airmiles Mastercard ( C$ 3.50 fee ) MXN$ 4853 from RBC Infinite Avion Visa ( C$ 5.00 fee ) MXN$ 4780 from Platinum Airmiles Amex ( C$ 2.75 fee ) Second Best : Canadian Banks Amounts listed are for in-person currency purchases in Canadian bank branches for customers of the bank . There may be extra charges if you are not a customer of these banks or if you withdraw MXN using an ATM in Mexico . MXN$ 4967 from <URL> MXN$ 4768 and a limit of C$ 500 if non-customer ( 4 % fee ) MXN$ 4689 from <URL> MXN$ 4673 from <URL> No additional fees if Scotiabank or <URL> customer using a <URL> ! MXN$ 4667 from <URL> Worst : Canadian Currency Counters MXN$ 4674 from <URL> Includes $ 3.50 transaction fee . MXN$ 4653 from <URL> MXN$ 4444 from <URL> Actual Value : Current Exchange Rate <URL> tells me that C$ 400 is currently worth MXN$ 4985 . Note : In my answer , I use specific dollar amounts . These amounts were accurate as of April 16-17 , 2015 , but obviously exchange rates fluctuate . More important than the specific dollar amounts is the differences between these methods , so even if the numbers are obsolete the answer to the question ( the best way to convert these currencies ) wo n't change .
From your question and your comment I understand you want to stay in a town in La Alpujarra and use this town as " headquarters " to visit this area . Unfortunatelly there is no such town , due the Alpujarra is too big to go walking from any town to others . You can use the GR7 ( red line ) to go from most towns to others in La Alpujarra . Have you considered the option of walk the GR7 from Lanjaron to Nevada in two or three journeys ? If you need to stay in a town , I 'd recommend Trevelez , first because is the most attractive town in La Alpujarra and second because it has many interesting paths nearby . Also , it could be interesting the <URL> site .
Here 's what I ended up doing : I left my hotel at 5:30 to walk up to Colaba Causeway to catch a bus to Churchgate station . There are at least four different buses doing this route including the 106,123 and 132 . I had to wait 30 minutes for the first bus , in this time I could have walked to the station . The fare was 6 Rs . At Churchgate I bought a ticket ( 8 Rs ) for the fast train to Andheri station which left at 6:14 and took about 35min . There are many trains but I recommend using a fast one . Because I was good on time , I had breakfast at a restaurant near Andheri station for 20 min and then took bus No. 308 ( 7 Rs ) right to the airport . Finally there was a 3min walk to the terminal . So the whole journey took less than 2 hours and cost 21 Rs ( US$ 0.42 ) . If you are leaving later in the day , the traffic is much havier but there are also more frequent buses . Also both buses and trains get very busy during rush hour , but I still think it is possible to do this at any time of the day if you do n't have too much luggage .
Thalys is an all reserved train service , and your ticket is only valid for the train booked . If you want to spend some time in Antwerpen just buy a Thalys ticket from Paris to Antwerpen , and buy another ticket for Antwerpen to Amsterdam . Between Antwerpen and Amsterdam you have the choice between two services . Thalys ( which again you need to reserve , and commit to a train ) . Intercity . This is a non reserved , turn up and go service . Buy tickets at the station for this .
18 hrs is doable . Go to Bhubaneswar to catch a flight to New Delhi . From Sambalpur there is train at 0635 hours to Bhubaneswar , takes around 4 hours and 30 minutes . Below is a list of them . It is a busy route , but you will be able to get a reservation easily . Go to <URL> and check the schedules or reserve a ticket . There are regular flights from Bhubaneswar to New Delhi , so flights will not be a problem . To check flights availability use <URL> or <URL> . Or if you do n't like trains , there are night buses which run very frequently from Sambalpur to Bhubaneswar . Check out <URL> . Else you can also go down to the bus station or to any of the agents selling bus tickets , but take a local with you who knows the language ( it is a very distinct version of Oriya which they speak there ) . Hindi will be fine but if somebody knows the local language it will be much better . Or you will be fleeced mercilessly . Pay a little more and take the Volvo bus , if available , as the road might get a bit bumpy at some places but the major part is fine .
I 'd suggest you get a cheap GSM phone ( assuming you 're not lucky enough to have a GSM phone already ) , and then pick up a pre-pay ( PAYG ) sim card when you get to spain . This will also have the bonus of giving you a Spanish number for the duration of your trip , so people in Spain can call you for a sensible amount of money . If you only want data , you may wish to get an unlocked 3g usb dongle , and then pick up a PAYG sim card for it , that could potentially be cheaper than doing it via a phone .
The best strategy is to go as far away as possible from tourist areas to exchange money . Currency Exchange at the airport is generally the worst , followed money changers in tourist areas . Then start to look at money changers in London 's financial district , ie the City . Generally , they will be competing with other money changers and making their money on volume . Also , people in the City will know what the rate should be . You are also very unlikely to be ripped off . The City is also safer if you are carrying large amounts of cash . ( Not applicable to you , but in general it 's good to know ) . The really good deals are via Corporate money changing but you are unlikely to be able to setup an account unless you have a business . Look around at lunch time and see which money changers have a queue . These are the ones to go to . I tend to use www.cityforex.co.uk for this reason . In general , this guide can be used for other countries / cities .
No . The option you mention is by far the fastest . Fly directly from Zurich to Amsterdam . Swiss has four flights per day . This takes 1h30 . Then take a <URL> from the <URL> to Eindhoven . That 's another 1h30 . There are plenty of ( direct ) trains between Schiphol and Eindhoven . Add the time in between to get luggage , go to the train etc. . And you are done . If you comply to traffic regulations , you wo n't be faster by car ( taxi or rental car ) on the Schiphol-Eindhoven leg . There are also direct flights from Brussels to Zurich . Brussels Airport is a 1h30 drive ( by car ) from Eindhoven . The train takes at least 2h45 and you have to change 2 or 3 times . Cologne and Düsseldorf are even further apart . Maastricht , Rotterdam and Antwerp do not have direct flights to Zurich . And this brings us back to Amsterdam ;-)
<URL> often offers very interesting offers from Ostend to Ramsgate . Unfortunately they do n't allow boarding on foot . A different solution would be to use Eurolines , you only need to board further away from Calais or Dover I just checked , a one way ticket from Brussels to London on June 20th is as cheap as 4 Eur one way . Do n't board the bus in Calais or Dover , because then they seem to charge similar prices as boarding the ferry on foot .
<URL> is your best option . <URL> on where and how to find them : The shuttles are white colored and parked in front of the terminal building arrivals level exit ready to take you to Taksim for a fee of 14 TL and to Kadıköy for a fee of 9 TL . Shuttle 's Taksim departure point is across Taksim Divan hotel , in front of the Point Hotel .
<URL> ( Saturday , 16 July 2011 ) From June , 17 to July 17 : On Friday , Saturday and Sunday From July , 18 to August , 31 : everyday From Bishkek : 06.25 , From Balykchy : 16.47 . Tickets are : adults - 69 soms , children - 35 soms . Support phones : 0312 418 107 , 0312 664 808 . See also : <URL> ( Whole site in Russian )
Not to worry , a lot of people there speak English , and it 's very easy to navigate , with trains to most out-side-of-center featured attractions , and those in the center are all easily walkable . <URL> has a list of the best things to see and do . From personal experience after two trips there , Tivoli themepark is well worth a visit . It 's more old-school and not as tourist-trappy as Disney or Universal , and is right next to the Central station , so easy to get to . A water boat tour is well worth a trip , you get to see a lot of the city from one of those , and it 's very relaxing . The mermaid is worth the photo op , if she 's there - she was away on display last year . The palace is the royal residence and looks amazing . As are many of the buildings in the center - the architecture is a boon for those keen on stuff like that . For me it was just great photo opportunities :) For fun you can take a train across the ocean ( ! ) to Malmo , Sweden . It doens ' t take long , and the ride is quite an experience . If you like shopping , Strøget is the longest pedestrian street in all of Europe , at 1.1 km , and is the top shopping area . There are also a variety of flea markets and stalls all over the place , especially in the docklands . Also if you 're a foodie , there are some fantastic restaurants , whether on a budget or willing to splurge on the top places . Enjoy it !
I did a lot of googeling during the last few days and I finally found a more or less cheap flight . It seems that <URL> has regular flights from Zurich to Elba . Unfortunately I could n't find these flights neither on ebookers nor on some well-known matrix flight search engines . However , <URL> starting at 112 Euros . So it is cheaper and faster than taking the train .
By searching <URL> from Kansai-airport to Osaka station it seems that the last train runs at 23:32 and costs 1190 JPY . Your ability to make this will depend a lot on how smoothly everything goes in the airport . There are also night busses as you said . Depending on where you are going where are two options : <URL> . <URL> . Theese both have the price of 1550 JPY but keep going further into the night meaning you can catch them for sure . The last option is the Kintetsu nankai line which is right next to the JR station , <URL> . However the last train here leaves at 23:40 which might work as well . If you take the Nankai to the end station which is Osaka-Namba it has a few different costs depending on the train type . 920 JPY for Airport Exp . 1430 JPY for Limited Exp ( Regular ) 1640 JPY for Limited Exp ( Super ) <URL>
I 'm currently working in our Eindhoven office and can see the runway from here ;) Hitchhiking is unlikely to work ; there 's no decent location to get picked up near the airport . The A2 highway is close , yes , but there 's no parking lot or something similar . Furthermore , you 're not allowed to walk on the highway itself . You 'd have to post on the on-ramp , but there 's no room to stop there . The train would be easy , and there are 7 buses per hour to the station . Pick the 401 ( 22 minutes ; it uses a reserved buslane so no traffic jams ) ; the 103 takes a horrible detour . Costs 3 euros one way , and you 'll need coins for that . There are actually 4 trains per hour to Amsterdam ; two of them go to Central Station and the other 2 go to Amsterdam Airport ( south of the city ) . Depending on where you 're going , either route is an option . All trains stop in Utrecht , where you can transfer .
There 's no single answer to questions like this , as they depend on what your future travel plans are going to be . For example , 1 United Airlines mile is worth less than 1 cent if you use it to buy a Gift card , 1-3 cents if you use it for many economy domestic flights , or as much as 10 cents or more for some itineraries such as international first class . That 's a factor of over 10 times , depending on what you use the points for ! Specific to Best Western points , unfortunately they are not the best in the industry . You 'll earn 10 points per dollar , but redeeming for a free night will cost anywhere between 8,000 and 36,000 points - so that means you 'll need to spend $ 800 to $ 3,600 to get a single free night . If you instead decide to credit to your airline frequent flyer program , most of their earn rates are per STAY , not per night or per dollar . This can work out well for a single-night stay , but not for a 7 night stay like you 've got as you only get the same number of miles as you would for a single night ! Best Western do allow you to move points to an airline after the fact which will give better rates for a longer stay , but they are done in " lots " of 5000 points ( which turns into 1000 airline mines ) , so if you 've got 9,999 points you can only transfer 5000 of them . 5000 points = 1000 miles , which based on the math above is worth somewhere between $ 10 and $ 100 - depending on how you end up spending them !
end question
start question
Do you earn miles for trips that you flew , but you did n't buy ?
By default , yes . There are a few cases where you might not : the company has some sort of flight pass . Some of those passes accrue miles only by being bought , not by being used the company got you a ticket by redeeming miles or the like - reward tickets do n't earn miles the company booked and bought a super cheap fare that does n't earn miles If the fare earns miles , you 'll be the one who earns them . Make sure your number is recorded ( when you check in , ask the person to make sure it 's there and add it if it 's not ) and you 'll be all set . Most Frequent Flyers earned their status with tickets their employers and clients paid for .
Not sure if this is quite the scenario you are outlining , but : If you 're really really broke , chances are you wo n't be eating at restaurants or places that require tipping in the first place :) At least in the US , tipping is not the norm ( or is completely optional - eg . tip jar might be present ) at fast food ( McD , Chipotle ) , sandwich shops ( Subway ) or other similar food outlets even in countries where tipping is expected at restaurants . Generally tips are only expected where you have sit-down service ; if you 're standing in line at a counter , no tip needed . At least in the US , the best way to look at tipping in a restaurant is to consider it to be part of the price of the meal . It 's standard for good service . If your budget does n't cover the full price ( including tax and tip ) , then choose a more appropriate dining option , otherwise you 're essentially underpaying and stiffing the waitstaff . So the analogous situation is : if you were in a country that did n't require tips , what would you plan on doing ? ( Probably not underpaying ! ) For going for drinks , check to see if there 's anywhere that has happy hour specials that you can take advantage of , you can often get decently cheap beer ( $ 2 PBRs ! ) or appetizers depending on the venue and time ; or it might be possible to chip in with the others to buy a pitcher of beer so you can still participate without having to over-commit . Just being upfront with the other folks about being at the end of your budget might be the best strategy ; depending on their cultural background , they may well be up for covering you for a drink or so in exchange for your travel stories or as a matter of hospitality - that whole kindness of strangers thing .
It is not a pleasant situation for both of them - the passenger or the large passenger . It is very uncomfortable for the passenger and totally embarrassing for the large guy . In addition to that , it is uncomfortable and embarrassing for the staff . Unfortunately , there is no one single rule that applies here ; each airline has its own policy regarding this . What you should do before the flight takes off If the large person 's body is invading your space and you have noticed this during boarding , make sure to speak to one of the cabin crew members immediately . Make it their problem . You are paying for a seat and it is your right to get a full seat , not a part of one . Remember , the only time you can report this case is on the ground . It is the perfect time for crew or ground staff to find another seat either for you or for the large person , or to find another solution in the case that there are no spare seats . Once the doors are closed and the plane is moving without you talking about it , you have given complicit agreement to this situation and no one can do much about it in most cases . What the staff will do This depends on the airline . Some airlines make large people pay ; some others upgrade large people to business or first class for free as a part of their services ( the airline I work for does this if no two seats are available in economy class ) . You could get lucky and get moved to a higher class and leave your seat for the other passenger . Either way , your problem should be solved before the plane takes off . Things to keep in mind This is an odd and embarrassing situation . Make sure to talk in private with the cabin crew to avoid embarrassing the sized passenger publicly . Depending on the airline , the sized passenger can be deplaned from the airplane or asked to pay for an extra seat . You may also be asked if you would like to wait for another flight ! Anything is possible if no extra seats are available .
The reason why airlines implement a policy of asking overweight people to get two seats is an air safety issue of whether they can be strapped in properly . The guideline used for this is whether a passenger can fit between the armrests . If a passenger requires two seats , then the policy differs from airline-to-airline if/what the passenger should be charged for it . On London to Sweden flights , British Airways flies Airbus A319/A320 -100 / 200 aircraft with <URL> ( " World Traveller Plus " ) . Premium economy is not as expensive as business class and if you have frequent flyer points , you may be able to get the upgrade cheap . <URL> depending on which flight you take with no difference in business class . <URL> as BA , and <URL> - the difference is that seat pitch ( distance ) is a good 4-5 " less than ' full-cost ' airlines . If that 's not a concern , buying two seats on a budget airline will be cheaper . EDIT : BA does not offer premium economy class for short-haul flights .
As far as I know , Skyteam has the same rules as pretty much every other airline or alliance : the miles for each ticket go to the person who actually uses that ticket to fly , provided they are registered in the program . It makes no difference who paid . In your example , let 's say the trip is 1000 miles long . No matter who pays , if you both register , and you both fly , then each of you gets 1000 miles . If you register and your friend does not , you get 1000 miles and your friend gets nothing . See how it works ? There is no way for you to earn miles for the ticket used by your friend , or vice versa . Note that if possible , you should register for the miles program before the trip , and add your frequent flyer numbers to the ticket . While it is usually possible to claim the miles retroactively , the process is less convenient .
<URL> offers a very rudimentary version of this service , and has recently added prices ( no idea how accurate they are ) , to at least some searches .
The level of support offered by embassies will vary widely from each foreign embassy / consulate to another . A couple of standard support measures provided though are : Contact family members to pass messages along Provide details on contact information on local lawyers , and interpreters if needed . Depending on whether such a support system is available for your nationality , get you <URL> or provide loans for financial aid . Probably more important than what they do provide is what they do n't provide . Embassies do not directly provide legal assistance , immunity , or evacuation just because someone is in trouble with the police . If caught in such a situation , it 's necessary to manage expectations on what an embassy can do realistically . While it is n't always possible to know the local laws of a country , not knowing you did something wrong is rarely ever a valid excuse . Use common sense - and as a rough yardstick do n't do anything illegal in your own country - for starters . This is especially <URL> as they could use legitimate less-known laws or made-up charges to shake you down . Embassies will rarely , if ever , provide assistance in these situations unless something seriously goes wrong . Another thing that can help you receive assistance quickly is your country 's embassy offers any form of registration programme , so that they know your details . Probably not very useful or even necessary for short-term travellers though .
No , in the specific case of <URL> as jpatokal has already noted , but also , no in general . Accrual of points in multiple programs is expressly prohibited by most programs in the T&amp;C , not just airlines but for frequent dining programs ( you can have multiple credit cards for one program , but a max of one program per credit card ) and rental car and hotel partnerships ( sometimes you can get both car/hotel points and airline points , but only one one partner airline ) . The very <URL> runs against double-dipping . The obvious and original purpose of frequent flyer miles was to encourage people to choose one particular airline over its competitors . So , if you could double-dip -- or triple-dip , or 30-dip -- you 'd no longer have an incentive to fly a particular airline . This is the most fundamental reason why airlines have no interest in allowing accrual to multiple programs . But today , frequent flyer miles are also a huge profit center for airlines -- one of which they must be highly protective . Miles are not " free " even though they seem like a sort of fiat currency that airlines could " print " at will . The airline has no direct interest in where you do your banking or grocery shopping ; none of that money makes it into their coffers . But your bank and your supermarket care , and because a significant number of their customers like miles , they will purchase miles from the airlines to give to their customers as an incentive . During the difficult early 2000s , FFPs were often the only profitable part of an airline 's business , and in a large program contribute hundreds of millions of dollars to the bottom line : even money-bleeding Qantas reported a <URL> in its frequent flyer program last year . This is why airlines are so deeply in bed with their credit card partners -- Delta with American Express , United with Chase , and so on . When Air Canada 's Aeroplan was spun off into a separate company , it reported that <URL> , with only 27 % from Air Canada ( mostly flights ) ! Second , your program has a tremendous amount of information about you that is valuable to marketers -- where you travel to , what kind of tickets you buy at what prices and when you book them , what seasons you will be in different cities , and so on . This has boosted the valuations of FFPs far above what would be expected based on purely revenue-based pricing . When you consider this , there is no scenario in which double-dipping of miles would be profitable to any party except the passenger -- and who has already given the airlines money in exchange for miles in a single program . Your fare has gone to Alaska Airlines , and you requested BA miles for them . Alaska purchases miles from BA and awards them to you . To request AA miles , Alaska would need to purchase and track miles from AA as well . That might make you and a lot of other people happy , but it would annoy BA and AA , who would be jealous of each over over your business , and it would annoy AS , which would incur additional costs because the benefit would probably not increase revenue enough to offset the administration costs and the annoyance of your partners . This is also why it is so difficult to change credit after the fact . If you decided you wanted AA credit instead of BA , you 'd need to ask BA to cancel their credit , and recognize those miles as still available to AS . Then you would ask AS to credit the flight from their stash of AA miles instead . You can see that such changes would incur accounting and other processing costs , and because credits and transfers are generally done in batches/sweeps instead of real time , there is a risk that customers would redeem miles while they were in the midst of being moved from one account to another . Double-dipping scenarios Now , there are a handful of scenarios where you can get away with double-dipping in airline programs , though it 's usually something which seems like double-dipping , but is n't actually . Rebooking on a non-partner airline For example , suppose you have purchased a ticket to fly on Delta , but due to mechanical problems , they are unable to fly you to your connection , and arrange for you to fly on American instead . You give your American AAdvantage number when boarding the AA flight , and receive AA credit for it , but you can also write to Delta and request original routing credit , which they will often give as a customer service gesture . This wo n't work with airlines who are partners , because they will see the credit in each other 's systems and deny the double-dip . If your Asiana flight from San Francisco to Seoul is overbooked , and they put you on the next flight out on United , you wo n't be able to request both Asiana and United credit for it . Non-mileage airline programs Singapore Airlines has two programs : <URL> and the <URL> . KrisFlyer is a traditional frequent flyer program , whereas PPS is a Singapore Airlines-only recognition ( no Star Alliance benefits or equivalent ) for high-revenue flyers . So , if you buy a lot of business - and first-class ti
The $ 40 Airport Departure Tax is already included in most air tickets . Years ago , each traveler paid the tax to a designated tax collector at the airport and got a stamp or ticket signifying they had paid the tax . This was actually pretty common at airports all over the world , but now most airlines collect the tax as part of the ticket price , then forward the money to the appropriate government . If you can find the full fare breakdown for your ticket , you will likely see a number of different departure taxes and passenger service charges from governments and airports along your route .
Short answer : Yes Long Answer : You are required to have the following : Ghanaian visa application form Original , signed United States passport with at least 6 months of remaining validity Two passport-size photographs of applicant . Should be taken at least within the last three months Visa Fee - money order , postal order , cashiers check or certified bank check Itinerary Evidence of financial support or letter of invitation from host in Ghana All persons entering Ghana are requested to have a valid certificate of immunization against yellow fever . Travelers may be required to present it at the port of entry in Ghana . Applications submitted by mail must be accompanied by prepaid self-addressed overnight , trackable envelope ( FEDEX ) for return of passports . Only requests accompanied by certified prepaid return envelopes will be processed . Source / Credit : <URL>
Yes , but it depends on 2 things : Your destination country law , and your home country law . Here is an example : Indonesian couples wants to get married in Singapore . The following rules apply : They have to apply their notice of Marriage at <URL> At least one of them has to be physically present within Singapore for a minimum of 15 days before the date of notice of marriage . Both of them should not have married before and each of them have to bring one witness . Full details can be found at <URL> After they married in Singapore , the marriage itself is legal ( almost ) worldwide , however Indonesian government does not accept the marriage certificate as legal document . In the order to make it legal , the couple has to get a translation of their ROM certificate and reference letter in Singapore 's Indonesian Embassy , and within 1 year they should report to Indonesian Civil Office back in Indonesia ( You ca n't just report in Indonesian Embassy ) Trivia : A lot of Indonesian married in Singapore before 2009 because Indonesian law did not allow different-religion marriage , and then reported their marriage back in Indonesia .
First , what you do n't do is call the Emirates reservations number . They , in my experience , will send you on a wild goose chase where you make multiple international phone calls during Middle Eastern business hours into the phone system of Arabian Adventures , the Emirates-owned tour operator . Each agent that you 're told to speak to will seem completely baffled by your request and unsure why you are asking them . Instead , you go to <URL> belonging to Kompas Express , the company Emirates has contracted to organize such packages for travelers in the US and Canada . I am aware that that URL looks like a scam , but it is linked to by <URL> on the official Emirates website intended for travel agents . Go to the Kompas Express page and fill out the form to supply your booking details . An agent will then email you with some preliminary price quotes based on the options you selected . You can then write back and ask for prices for other hotels besides the ones they give you or to request other services . They 'll put it all together in a quote and allow you to pay through a secure site . It is not possible to communicate with them in any way besides email . You can , of course , book your own hotels separately , but then you wo n't get the transportation , 24-hour check-in/check-out , breakfast , or other parts of the package , so it 's worth shopping around . Also note that some itineraries qualify for Emirates <URL> , where they will provide free accommodation and meals to passengers on qualifying fares and itineraries with long connections . This question is referring to voluntary long layovers for the purpose of seeing Dubai , not involuntary ones due to flight schedules .
AFAIK , it does not work that way , it is not a type of discount that you get at a counter by showing a seaman 's book or ID . These kind of discounts are usually given to seamen by their companies ( ship owners ) , the company will contact the airline and get a special discount . This is used when the shipping company needs to move crew from one area to another , to operate a different ship or when moving seamen back to their ships after leaves . One more thing , this is usually done by arranging bilateral agreements between shipping companies and airlines , it is not a guaranteed benefit . This kind of agreements do exist not only with ships companies , but also it can happen with major companies , I have seen oil companies with such benefits , but again , it is not something the employee can get by himself , it has to be done at company level .
Some Stats I ran some stats for you ( from our data on Hostelz.com , a travel website that I represent ) and currently 97 % of hostels provide free bedsheets , and the remaining 3 % charge a fee . Towels are a different matter . Currently 50.5 % of hostels include free towels , 46.9 % charge a fee , and 2.6 % do n't offer towels at all . The History Over the long term , the trend is actually moving in the opposite direction of what you may think it is . In the past hostels traditionally did n't provide bedsheets or towels at all . When staying in hostels , you were expected to bring your own " sleepsheet " ( usually made from two bedsheets sewn together ) . As recently as the early 2000s , guidebooks recommended always having your sleepsheet when staying in hostels because most hostels charged extra if you did n't bring your own sheets , and some did n't offer sheets at all . Over the past couple decades , hostels have been more and more offering amenities similar to what you would expect from hotels ( and they 've been raising their rates as well ) . Some may still charge for sheets because they traditionally have always done that , but some hostels may be just doing it as a way to profit from added fees ( the Ryanair business model ) . How to Find Out To answer your question about how to find out ahead of time which hostels charge for sheets or towels , most of the hostels ' own websites do n't include that info from what I 've seen . If you 're looking on Hostelz.com , we list that information in the column on the left side of each listing , usually including the specific price they charge if the hostel provided that information . Other websites may list information as well ( Hostelworld for example will usually say " sheets included " if they 're free , so if you do n't see that , there may be a fee ) . Consider Bringing Your Own Personally I still always bring a sleepsheet ( or " travelsheet " ) with me anyway . I just like sleeping in my own familiar sheets . You could bring a simple bedsheet with you , or if you do n't mind spending some money , you can get a really nice <URL> . Silk is ideal because it 's super lightweight , compacts to a very small size , durable , breathable , and super comfortable .
You have bumped into one of the Spanish habits . In Spain there are a lot of people that wake up early just to leave their things at the beach/pool and then go back to bed . It 's like planting a flag saying " hey , this is my territory and you should keep away " . I hate this behaviour of my fellow countrymen . What to do ? At the beach , there is a recent law that forbids doing this . The pools are different though because they are private spaces . The rule of thumb should be : if there 's no space available , wait 5 minutes and remove one of the towels that is not wet ( because it could show you that it is in use ) and has nothing more in the surroundings , like bags , flip-flops , etc. . Leave the towel over other not-really-busy sunbed . This wo n't stand surety for not to discuss with the towel owner , but decreases the chances . Even at the beach , I 've had discussions where the law has assisted me .
<URL> it 's rare to get automatic transmissions in Brazil , or that when the companies do have them , they 're regularly more expensive . Your best bet is to contact the company before you get to Brazil ( from comments of yours on other questions I gather you 've booked through Modiva ) , and find out if you can reserve one . I suspect they 'll be getting similar questions from others , especially from the US , so should be able to clarify .
I tried KAYAK and I found flights operated by Uzbekistan Airways there !! While you ca n't buy on Kayak , if you follow the ticket , it 'll take you to the online travel agency <URL> and you can certainly purchase them there .
Unfortunately the plane body does an excellent job of blocking GPS signal . In general if you 're in a window seat you will be able to get a signal by holding the GPS near the window ( or , for example , on a tray table ) - but if you 're elsewhere on the plane it 's very unlikely you 'll get a signal . The exception to this may be the new Boeing 787 , which is made primarily of Carbon-fiber reinforced polymer ( CFRP ) . Not only does CFRP allow for larger windows ( which would allow a greater visibility of the sky , and thus more GPS satellites ) , but it 's likely that the GPS signal would pass through the aircraft shell better than on conventional planes . Keep in mind that not all airlines allow passengers to use GPS receivers in flight ( they are technically " radio receivers " which are often not allowed ) . Be sure to check with the specific airline and/or the flight crew to confirm that you are allowed use one .
The only requirement is that the boarding pass must be " same day " , so there is no real limit as to when you will be allowed through security as long as it 's the same day as the departure . The only exception to this would be a flight leaving shortly after midnight in which case you will be allowed through security the day before , although in this case it 's possible you would be given some additional scrutiny by the TSA if you were to attempt to pass through security too far in advance .
Updated As of May 2014 , it works in both directions now ! As this edit demonstrates , from somewhere under the channel :) Yes , you can ! But currently until very recently , it was only in one direction ... As detailed in <URL> , Eurotunnel ( who own the tunnel ) have fitted leaky feeder aerials , base stations and repeaters to both tunnels , and it only took 10 months to kit out . Eurotunnel are then leasing them out to mobile operators . The North Tunnel , which is normally used for trains travelling from France to England , has been assigned as " France " and leased to French mobile phone operators . Service in this tunnel went live in July 2012 , and you can now use your phone to call / text / surf whilst travelling from France to England . It 's using French mobile operators though , so UK phones will be charged roaming just as they do in France . The South Tunnel , which is normally used for trains going from England to France , has been designated " England " as is to be leased to English mobile phone operators . However , despite being ready in 2012 , it took until <URL> , and as such mobile signal has only just started working in the UK to France direction . ( Quite why the UK networks were so useless is a different question ... ) The service from France - > UK , works well though , I can personally confirm it from earlier ! If you 're on the phone as you enter the tunnel , your call will continue uninterrupted , and work fine for the whole tunnel . However , just before leaving the tunnel your call will drop , as that 's where the French network ends . A few tens of seconds later your phone will sign-on with the UK network , and you 'll be able to call again . The service the other way , from the UK to France , still ( May 2014 ) seems to be suffering some teething problems . Mobiles do work , with the odd drop-out , but data is pretty flaky and suffers really slow speeds + long ping times . It 's possible they 'll sort that later , but for now internet largely only works in the " French tunnel " . ( I have managed to post to Travel.SE from the English tunnel , but it took most of the trip for the post to go through ! ) AFAICT , there is no mobile service offered in the third tunnel , the service tunnel , only the emergency radios work there .
end question
start question
Where can I find a map of the whole Japan railway system ?
Here you go : <URL> ￥ 1,296 from Amazon.co.jp . Here 's a <URL> with some pictures of the map folded out . And yes , that 's entirely in Japanese , I very much doubt such a thing exists in English . To get some idea of the effort that would entail , <URL> of another incomplete &amp; partial map covering just the Tokyo metro area .
Assumptions Let 's make some assumptions : The question " how far can I see ? " can be answered by asking " how far is it to the apparent horizon ? " <URL> By this definition , a taller vantage point allows to see farther than a lower one The <URL> The maximum height above sea level in Ethiopia is <URL> The Red Sea is a large puddle of water which is likely to be visible if located between the observer and the apparent horizon Some Data The apparent horizon distance from a point at a height of 2000m is 159.7 km The apparent horizon distance from a point at a height of 4550m is 241km The average distance between the Ethiopia-Eritrea border and the Red Sea is 60km ( calculated using my thumb as scale and google maps ) From where Can I See the Red Sea in Ethiopia ? Given the assumptions and the data above , one should be able to see the Red Sea from Ethiopia , given an observation point at a height of 2000m placed between the Ethiopia-Eritrea border and 90km from such border . The map below ( <URL> ) shows four circles with a a radius of 159.7 km , placed roughly at the border between Eritrea and the Red Sea . These highlight an area of land in Ethiopia from which the Red Sea should be visible . Moreover , an observer standing at the summit of the Ethiopian highlands should be able to see the Red Sea , since this is at a distance which is less than the distance of the apparent horizon calculated from that point . The yellow circle in the map below shows an area with a radius of 241km centred on the Ethiopian Highlands . This circle highlights the visible area from this point , a significant part of which encompasses the Red Sea . <URL>
According to <URL> ( screenshots of the signup page available ) , the prices are : For Laptops 20MB for $ 10 USD 50MB for $ 18 USD Full Flight for $ 22 For Mobile 12MB for $ 5 USD 5MB for $ 2 USD 3 Hours for $ 10 USD It is worth mentioning that the blog owner had a bad experience using the onboard wifi as most of the requests were timed out and pages were not loading . I personally had better experiences in other airlines using this service . So , I guess it totally depends on the strength of the Inmarsat satellite 's signal .
For hiking maps and an overview map , the Danish company <URL> is a good source of printed maps . Also try <URL> For town maps , <URL> has interactive online maps . Most towns will also have a free printed tourist map . <URL> provides in-season ferry service on the west coast . And do n't be too down on OpenStreetMaps . The reality in places as remote as most of Greenland is that the printed maps have the same problem as OSM : there may be roads that are n't on the map , and things on the map that have been under the permafrost for 20 years . These things happen when you 're a " road less traveled " kind of traveler . I 'd definitely be downloading the OSM maps of Greenland to my iPhone as a just-in-case backup . Check out the app <URL> , which will enable you to download maps for offline use from both OpenStreetMaps and Cloudmade , giving you further comfort since you have two different maps to compare . Wear warm underwear , and have fun !
In the uk you can usually exchange currencies in most major banks , lloyds , nat west , hsbc , royal bank of Scotland . However from personal experience the rates are not competitive . I have found that travel agents ( Thomas Cook , and Thomson/first choice/tui ) and marks and spencer department stores with buearax de change in them offer a better rate than the banks , and are usually close in rate to each other . Larger department stores in bigger towns and cities may offer the option to buy in foreign currency , some marks and Spencer 's definitely do , but the rate will not be to your benefit . In larger towns some supermarkets such as Asda tescos and Sainsburys now also have exchange beaurax The best rates in my home town can be found in a couple of money lending / pawn / cash converter shops , in particular for euros and U.S. dollar exchange . You can change money at most post offices in the uk but there are some limits . There are several types of post office , and in smaller local ' sub ' post offices you can only exchange euros and dollars , larger main or ' crown ' post offices are likely to offer a fuller service , and the rate is normaly a few pennies better than the smaller ones . There is a website rue by a uk financial advice guru called Martin Lewis <URL> You Imput the amount you want to exchange , and it will provide you with a table showing the best rates . if you are changing euros to gbp then you need to use the buyback option . It also sometimes has downloadable codes / vouchers to get a slightly better rate ( often if you are exchanging a higher amount of currency ) Final point . The most expensive place to change money is at the airport . The rates offered are often attriocious , due to having a captive audience . Enjoy your trip .
The cheapest solution I 've been able to find was the <URL> ( Italian only , sorry ) which is a nice camping not so far from downtown Mantova . It 's actually a 15 mins walking from almost every place in Mantova with an event associated to the festival . The camping is provided with plenty of space to plant your tent , a common area where you can have your meals and recharge your phone/laptop/whatever batteries and toilets and showers with hot water . The cost for one night is 5 $ , 15 $ if you plan to stay all the 5 days the festival last . Parking the car is free of charge .
There are several sites that offer this information including those for Ski Resorts . <URL> <URL>
They are called Goodwill Guides . Your description is spot on . They only want to have travel etc paid for . But you will not only find students but also retirees and housewives . I know <URL> with a huge list . <URL> that covers several areas of Japan . If you are in Tokyo , you might want to go directly to <URL> .
Bachtrack is doing that for you . Looking for the concert reveals that the <URL> is currently performed by the <URL> and the <URL> . You can even <URL> of this concert of all known past performances .
The two best sources for this type of data are <URL> and <URL> . Although these sites both get data from the FAA , I do n't know that either would be considered " official " . The nearest to official source would be the FAA data available at <URL> however this data is always several months behind ( eg , they currently have up to November 2011 ) , and not as easy to search for specific flights as either of the above two sites . For ( at least ) Flight Stats you 'll need to create an account to look at historic data , however it 's free to do so .
<URL> ! Enter in the ' from ' part , eg , LON ( London , any airport ) is what I used to put when I lived there . Delete the ' to ' part , leaving it blank . Select the dates you require , from and to . Click search . It will then display a list of countries by price . Select the country of choice , and it 'll show cities in that country , by price . This is often how I 'd pick my next trip in Europe :)
Right , this took some searching , as most sites just mention the artists like Youssou N'Dour . According to the <URL> , number 687 ( in the edition I looked at ) is experiencing Mbalax in Dakar , Senegal . And apparently , local and international legend Seck hosts live mbalax nights at the Kilimanjaro club , next to the Soumbedioune evening fish market .
Pools in Japan are usually divided in two sections : lanes running the length of the pool for " serious " swimmers , and a general section for everybody else ( including children etc ) . In the " serious " lanes , all you 're allowed to do is swim up and down the lane at the same speed as others in that lane , which are typically physically marked with lane ropes . Here 's what the Olympic 50m pool looks like at the <URL> : ( publicity photo courtesy TMG ) In the " free for all " section ( which for the TMG means the entire 25m pool ) you can do anything you like , but you 're unlikely to have much luck doing laps the width of the pool because of school lessons , teenagers horsing around , random pensioners doing their exercises , etc. . As a sidenote , beware that Japanese pools tend to have a pretty strictly enforced " dress code " : this usually means mandatory swimming cap ( men &amp; women , long &amp; short hair , does n't matter ) , " Speedo " - style swimsuits for men ( no shorts ) , and no visible tattoos .
Ah , MUFJ , that mutant offspring of semi-insolvent Japanese banks . You 're in for some fun times ! The sanest way to approach this is to go to the bank branch and ask , they 'll rustle up somebody with enough English to help you out . The Japanese keyword is <URL> ( gaikokusōkin ) . A few pointers : Not all branches handle remittances , so pick a nice big branch that does . See <URL> ( Jp only ) . Bring lots of ID , both personal and bank-related . Make sure you know your " anshin bangō " security code and can sign your signature the way you did when you opened your account . Find out everything you possibly can about the bank account you 're sending to . This includes SWIFT codes , branch names , branch addresses , etc. . Expect it to take forever . Seriously , if you 're out of there in less than an hour , it 's a good day . Expect to pay <URL> for the privilege , more if you 're sending lots .
I could n't find anything in Japan - my Japanese is n't that great , and search results are mainly about an apparently new fad called " water jump " , which seems to consist of riding a snowboard down a rather small ramp into a lake or pool . Here 's two event agencies offering two-day ski jumping lessons in Germany or Austria : <URL> <URL>
<URL> has a great map making feature . <URL> or <URL> could also be good tools for creating a map . Google Earth in particular now supports " <URL> " that you can record to show an animated path , even with narration and photos .
Right after security checks ( at least in the terminal I used ) there were two changing rooms that are probably used for extra security checks . I asked the security staff if I could use it to get changed and their response was " sure , of course " so I went ahead and did . Indeed nobody even seemed to care . The changing room featured a chair , enough space and was very clean . <URL> Alternatively let me propose a solution here that has not been mentioned yet : Go to a clothing store in the airport shopping area , find a sales clerk that is free and ask politely if you could use their changing rooms for a second to change your clothes . No guarantee that it 'll work but you can try at least .
BCEL has an ATM outside the airport arrivals area . Look for the " LDB Exchange " counter adjacent to the main exit . ( If you stand at the counter and look out the window you 'll see the sign for the ATM . ) Head outside .
Foreigners in transit in China with booked itineraries departing within 24 hours and not wishing to leave the transit area of the airport do not need a visa , according to <URL> : Visa Exemption 2 . For Direct Transit No visa is required for foreigners who hold tickets to the final destination and have booked seats on international airlines , ships , trains transiting directly through China , and will stay for less than 24 hours and do not leave the specified transit area . Foreigners are able to apply for a Temporary Entry Permit to leave the port for city sightseeing or going to a dock or a railway station . Those who transfer in two cities of China within 24 hours are also available to enjoy this policy . For instance , if one 's trip is Los Angeles -- Beijing -- Kunming -- Chiengmai and the time in China is less than 24 hours , the passenger can enjoy the direct transit . This is also confirmed by <URL> : Visas are not required of aliens ( includes Indonesian ) , who hold final destination tickets and have booked seats on international airliners flying directly through China , and will stay in a transit city for less than 24 hours without leaving the airport .
Broadly speaking , tea plantation tourism is not a thing in Japan , for multiple reasons : the picking season is short ( as little as ten days , although Kagoshima squeezes in 4-5 harvests per year ) , they do n't want tourists in the way of the giant lumbering machines that do the bulk of the harvesting , and traditionally the places that process , roast , package and sell tea are separate from those that actually grow it . But ! After way too much searching , I found one group in Kagoshima that organizes tea tours : <URL> ( 茶寿会 ) , who in season run " green tourism " tours every couple of days that tour a live tea plantation and sample some fresh produce , for a token & yen ; 200 per head . Two major catches : you need a group of at least 15 people , and you will likely need a Japanese speaker to book and accompany you . If this sounds like too much hassle , you can pay a visit to <URL> ( 大野岳 ) , from whose viewing platform at the 466m summit you get a panoramic view of all the tea fields around you .
end question
start question
La Ruta Maya in 3 weeks : reasonable ?
I did a few searches . <URL> has a 15-day itinerary . <URL> has 7 stops each for a day or two with some possible side trips . So it certainly seems reasonable that you could create your own route and spend a very enjoyable 21 days .
Not yet . The City has <URL> a 700 bike system with initial plans to open <URL> ( 2017 ) . There are , of course , <URL> options available in the meantime .
For a short term visit of less than six months , <URL> . In addition , there are special circumstances surrounding <URL> , such as tuberculosis , HIV , yellow fever , polio , and Ebola . In particular , the following are said about tuberculosis and polio : If you are applying for a temporary visa you may be asked to undergo tuberculosis testing on a risk management basis . Applicants will be asked to provide a polio vaccination certificate if applying for a visa from outside of Australia if : you have spent 28 days or longer in Afghanistan , Cameroon , Equatorial Guinea , Ethiopia , Iraq , Nigeria , Pakistan , Somalia or Syria , or in any combination of these countries , on or after 5 May 2014 Was it clear on your visa application that you would only be there for three days ?
Yes , this has been standard procedure for banking in the US since about 2002 . Do n't worry ; just make sure your bank is FDIC accredited . Recent US laws require Social Security Numbers . <URL> <URL> <URL>
I think many electric hardware stores have these items , walk a couple of streets in the center and I guess you find a couple . Otherwise the feria ( market ) might also have stands that sell that sort of stuff . If all fails , here I have a link to MercadoLibre , the ebay of latin america , they have plenty of these items for sale in the capital : <URL>
Right , I 've finally formed an answer for this . From a Lonely Planet forum : <URL> Camping is not really done in Malaysia . There are no campsites except at places like the National Park , and then you can rent gear . Of course , that does n't mean it 's illegal , just not common . However : <URL> Indicates and describes what is protected in a Marine reserve . It 's not so much the land , but specifically a protected area of sea zoned one or two nautical miles from the shore at lowest low tide which would indicate as long as you do n't camp IN the water , you 'll be fine , as the land itself is not the protected part :) Other forums , including the first one above go on to mention many camping stores and tent supplies , so while it may not be common , it certainly exists in the national park areas .
You can expect to be able to bring up to 1 liter onto a plane , in vessels of up to 100ml , carried in a transparent bag . Expect to lose any container over 100ml .
This is what the compartment should more or less look like ( <URL> ) : <URL> As you guessed , there is no changing room or something similar . A pillow and sheet like you see in the picture are provided . There is some variation , but most people will sleep in comfortable street clothes or close to that . Usually at the end of the coach there are toilets and a washstand . The washstand is probably the closest you will get to a changing room . You can use it to clean your face , to shave , brush your teeth and eventually do a quick cat wash . No full shower . That you should get somewhere else . If you decide on the cat wash try to leave the washstand as you found it instead of flooded . There might be shower facilities in major stations ( Gare d'Austerlitz in Paris has some for instance , I 'm not sure about German stations ) . If you expect smelly shoes/feet the best option is probably to air your feet and footwear before boarding the train . If you can carry some light sandals to replace your heavy hiking boots , that would be an option . Putting your smelly shoes in plastic bag and knotting it well closed will also make a huge difference . Another thing to be aware of if you want to be considerate towards the other passengers ( and it sounds you are , thank you ) is to avoid noise for people that are already sleeping when you board the train or are still sleeping when you leave the train . If you leave very early make sure that all your luggage is easily retrievable with at minimum on noise . Postpone putting on your shoes until you are outside the compartment , in the corridor . Places to store luggage are under the lower beds ( rather narrow space ) , above the door ( surprisingly large , perfect for bulky items ) and behind that little stair . Avoid putting anything behind the stair when boarding in the middle of the night because putting something there is always noisy . I often put a small bag simply next to me in the bed , but this depends largely on the size of the bag and your own size .
Dirty-flow 's answer is not really wrong , however , I want to substantiate it a little bit . To quote from <URL> : Gut zu wissen : Eine Trunkenheitsfahrt ( § 316 StGB ) kann nicht nur mit Kraftfahrzeugen , sondern grundsätzlich auch mit dem Fahrrad begangen werden ! Eine Trunkenheitsfahrt liegt immer dann vor , wenn das Fahrrad nicht mehr sicher geführt werden kann . Eine feste Promillegrenze gibt es hier nicht . Ist der Fahrradfahrer verkehrsauffällig geworden , kann die für Kraftfahrzeuge geltende Grenze von 0,5 Promille ab der eine Ordnungswidrigkeit vorliegt auch für Radfahrer herangezogen werden , hat der sogar einen Unfall verursacht , so ist auch hier - wie bei Kraftfahrzeugen - die 0,3-Promillegrenze ausschlaggebend . Als absolute Fahruntüchtigkeitsgrenze für Radfahrer hat der Bundesgerichtshof 1,7 Promille festgesetzt ( bei Kraftfahrzeugen : 1,1 Promille ) . Einzelne Gerichte haben aber auch schon 1,5 Promille für die absolute Fahruntüchtigkeit ausreichen lassen . Werden durch die Unfähigkeit , das Rad sicher zu führen , Leib oder Leben eines anderen Menschen oder fremde Sachen von einigem Wert gefährdet , droht gar die Verurteilung wegen Gefährdung des Straßenverkehrs , § 315c StGB . The translation is more or less ( just the important parts ) : Driving under the influence of alcohol is generally forbidden , if your not able anymore to participate safely in traffic . There is no concrete alcohol limit for that . If it is clearly obvious that a biker should n't participate in traffic , the limit of 0.5 can also be used for bikers . If the biker has caused an accident , it is even possible to use a limit of 0.3 . At 1.7 and above , it is illegal in every case . Some courts have also used a 1.5 threshold .
There are no Schengen wide regulations on how to react on visa violations and overstays . Each member state is free to set their own penalties and reactions . Overstays are usually settled with a fine , but in severe cases , you can also be banned from entering Schengen for a period of time . I ca n't find any current rates , but in 2011 Switzerland issued fines between 200 and 650 CHF for overstaying . In this case , the Swiss immigration officer most probably did n't notice your overstay . When applying for a national visa , you must assume that the consulate will do a more thorough examination of your travel history , especially to the Schengen area , and that the overstay will be noticed and most likely cause problems . You write in a comment : It 's absolutely clear that my overstaying in 28 days is fixed in data base ... Fortunately , this is actually not the case . There is no Schengen wide database for entries and exits and even if some countries operate their own databases , the data is not complete and not suitable to track your travel history . Since currently the only trace of your overstay are the entry and exit stamps in your passport , this might actually be one of the few cases where " losing " your old passport and applying for a new one will solve your problem .
The other answers are correct , but they rely on the assumption that wet wipes are not liquid , gel , aerosol , cream , or paste , without any evidence that the TSA would accept that . As you correctly pointed out in a comment , wet wipes contain liquid . How can we check whether the liquid contained in wet wipes causes them to fall under the 3-1-1 rule ? Try the Prohibited Items page of the TSA web site : <URL> Here , there is a box with the text " When I Fly , Can I Bring My ... ? " If you type " wet wipes " into the box , and click the " Go " button , you will get a pop-up window informing you that You may transport this item in carry-on baggage or in checked baggage . For items you wish to carry-on , you should check with the airline to ensure that the item will fit in the overhead bin or underneath the seat of the airplane .
1 ) You can have them mailed to someone else 's address , maybe where you 're staying or if you know anyone in town . There 's also a cosubscriber option you can benefit from if you know someone in town who has one . You can also not subscribe and pay per ride , you do n't need keys in that case . 2 ) If you only need 2 weeks ' worth of biking , you might want to look at pay per use , it depends on how often you 'll need it so I ca n't say if you 're better off . Be aware though that Quebec City has its own network , and that even if you 're subscribed to the monthly plan you still pay extra if the ride exceeds 45min <URL> , which makes taking the bike out of town a pretty bad idea . 3 ) Highly subjective , but keep in mind they were designed as a quick way to go from A to B , not as a way to stroll around town . They 're pretty heavy to deter theft too . The system is pretty reliable though , there 's stations all over town and defective bikes are usually replaced quickly . In my own experience I can say some stations more uphill tend to be emptier because people usually leave them downtown instead
Officially the " Minimum Connection Time " for United Domestic - > United International at SFO is 45 minutes , and as you 're above this it is still what is considered a " legal " connection . However all this really means is that if you miss your connection the airline is responsible for finding you a seat on a later SFO-LHR flight . It does n't mean that you 'll make your connection , nor does it mean that the airline will cover any additional expenses such as hotels during the delay , etc ( They might , but it depends on the cause of the delay ) . As both of your flights are on United you do NOT need to re-clear security at SFO , nor do you need to collect your bags as they will be checked all the way through from LAS to LHR . Presuming that your LAS-SFO flight has a flight number below 2000 then you inbound flight will arrive in Terminal 3 , and your outbound flight will leave from the International Terminal G . These two terminals are connected by an air-side walkway , and depending on which gates you land at and depart from it will be in the 10-15 minute range to walk for an average person . If your inbound flight is a flight number above 6000 then it will arrive in Terminal 1 . There is an air-side bus from Terminal 1 to Terminal G , but depending on how busy the bus is it could take up to 20 + minutes to get between the two terminals and to your gate . Your outbound flight will start boarding around around 45 minutes before departure , and technically you need to be at the gate 30 minutes before departure time , although realistically 10-15 mins is normally the minimum - any later and you risk losing your seat . So basically , if everything goes right and your inbound flight is on time then you 'll have no trouble making your connection . You probably wo n't have enough spare time for anything other than a very quick bathroom break , but it 's doable . However if your inbound flight is delayed even a little - which is not uncommon on LAS-SFO flights , especially if it 's a morning flight - then you will likely miss your connecting flight . Depending on the time of year there are only 1 or 2 direct SFO-LHR flights per day on United , so the impact of missing your flight is very high - most likely an up to 24 hour delay ! If it were me , I would be changing to an earlier LAS-SFO flight . United is normally very happy to do this when there has been a schedule change . In this case as the ticket was booked via an agency and as a codeshare they may not be willing to assist , but I would start with them presuming you can conveniently call them . Otherwise talk to EBookers and ask them to arrange the change . In cases like this it 's normally best to know exactly what you want before calling ( eg , you want flight UAxxx from LAS-SFO rather than your existing UAyyyy ) .
You can get your visa at any Turkmen consulate in the world . Currently there is only one embassy in Uzbekistan , the address : Uzbekistan , Tashkent Telephone : +998 (71) 1205278 ,9 Fax : +998 (71) 1205281 Address : 1 Bol . Mirabadskaya 10 700090 Tashkent For stays of up to 10 days you can ( possibly - see edit ) get your visa on arrival at the Ashgabat airport . You can expect processing to take between 1-5 working days . If I were you I 'd ring the consulate in Uzbekistan and check with them what their requirements are . Should be no problems for a New Zealander ( unless you 're a journalist ) . Note that you need to tell them upfront if you 're planning on bringing in a vehicle , and you also need a permit to visit the nature reserves/border zones . You 'll also need a letter of invitation or a letter of recommendation from your own embassy . e : to provide sources/links for verification List of Turkmen embassies abroad : <URL> Detailed info including areas for which you need extra permits : <URL> This page seems to indicate that if you want to pick up the visa at the airport you need to arrange it in advance : <URL>
How long is a piece of string ? Most bus fares in Thailand are under 500 baht , meaning even a 20 % commission is only US$ 2-3 . I 've never even tried to book ahead , as I 've never had a problem just showing up and getting on the next bus . For train tickets , which are a far more limited resource ( at least for sleepers etc ) and ca n't be booked online ( curse you , SRT ! ) , around 200 baht plus credit card surcharges is typical . For airplane tickets , commissions are usually built into the price , the agent is highly unlikely to tell you how much but around 5 % from the airline is typical . Commissions are a form of competition , so agents will push the airlines with the highest margins , and they may well add some extra margin on top ! If you 're booking straightforward point-to-point or return flights , you 'll avoid all the commissions and get the best prices by booking online .
I 'm in Istanbul right now , and when I got here I asked a friend who has been here before . According to her , no , it 's not required , but is always welcome . I have not got any noticeable negative reactions over the past week from not tipping , and very gracious thanks when I have done so , but I 'm still new to the country and may have trouble ' reading ' people if they are being polite when I have n't tipped . Usually it 's been when I have n't liked the service or felt it was already very overpriced for what was offered - not unusual in extremely touristy restaurants , for example , which you may want to avoid . Corrections welcome from native Turks , of course :) I just got a bill a minute ago for 18 lira for a coffee and two beers , and paid with a 20 lira note and no change . 2 lira = 1 dollar US/CA/AU - honestly , at that amount , it barely matters .
Definitely plan for strolls along the canals , and possibly a canal tour . Amsterdam has many major art museums , and I recommend visiting at least some of them , even if you 're not generally fond of staring at paintings ( I 'm not ) . The two most important ones are the <URL> and the <URL> ( they are practically next door to each other , on the <URL> ) , then possibly <URL> . Also consider the <URL> , which shows collections from the Hermitage Museum , rotating every few months . If you 're into modern art , do n't miss the <URL> , normally also on the Museumplein but currently closed with its collections travelling from temporary location to temporary location . If you 're interested in history , apart from <URL> ( whose value is more as a memento than to see unique artifacts or presentations ) , the major museums are the <URL> , the <URL> , and perhaps the <URL> . Also consider the Palace and the major churches and the <URL> ( worth at least a quick visit ) . Somewhat lesser known , but definitely interesting , is the <URL> , a large ethnological museum ( as it is located somewhat off the beaten path , you may not be able to fit it into a three-day visit ) . For the young and hip crowd , Amsterdam also has some less conventional places to visit . You can tour the <URL> just south of the central district . Depending on your tastes , you might visit the <URL> , the <URL> , the <URL> , the <URL> , or the <URL> . Given your posting history , I guess you 'll want to have dinner in the station/Dam area then head east into the main red light district ( worth a visit even if you are n't interested in the wares ) . I very strongly recommend getting a museum pass . Partly because you wo n't have any qualms visiting a minor museum for only half an hour , but most importantly because the major museums can have very long queues , which you can completely bypass if you have free entry . Some museums now allow you to buy tickets online in advance , but not all , and this requires planning . For up to three days in Amsterdam , get the <URL> , which includes free transportation on board the trams ( and buses and metro ) and free entrance to most major and many minor museums . For a longer stay in the Netherlands , get the <URL> ¹ , which grants free entrance to all public museums ( which is most of them ) in the whole country , and purchase transportation separately . There 's also the <URL> , which may concievably be worth it in odd circumstances . You can <URL> ( but not the Museumkaart ) at the tourist office outside the central station ( only until 18:00 on Friday and Saturday , 17:00 otherwise ) , at the Schiphol airport , in the participating museums ( tip : if you 're on the Museumplein , the <URL> is just opposite the Rijksmuseum on the Van Gogh Museum side , and there 's hardly ever a queue ) and other locations . Depending on your tastes , you 'll either mostly travel on foot and in trams , or cycle ( there are plenty of bicycle rental places ) . Finally , as Amsterdam has many things to offer and you wo n't have time to see them all , I recommend getting a guidebook on paper ( or e-book ) and planning your stay . ¹ For some reason , many guidebooks do n't mention the Museumkaart , even though it is good value if you 're spending more than a week-end in the country . Although the website is in Dutch , the card is not reserved to residents .
LOL ! If you want immersion in Chinese culture then Johor Bahru and Penang are very good choices . You named the 2 most Chinese town of Malaysia . Go to the east coast instead . To Kota Bahru then slowly travel south . Unfortunately , I think it is the rainy season now . You can also stay in KL but move to Kampung Bahru ( not far from the Petronas tower ) . Other " mostly Malay " location include Kampung Datuk Keramat , Segambut , Kampung Sungai Pencala , Gombak and Selayang ( thank you @sabre23t ) You can also find small Malay villages near big Chinese cities . For example , when I am in Penang , I like to stay in Teluk Bahang , 1 hour away from Georgetown .
When you get to CDG , you 'll need to clear immigration , get your bag , then go through customs . You can then take the CDGVal to Terminal 2 , if you 're not already there . Head to the station area , which is quite well signposted , and situated between T2C , T2D and T2E . You can spot it in the middle of the <URL> . Once in the station area , find the ticket office , find the badly sign-posted TGVAir desk ( do n't just the long main ticket queues ! ) . Show them your ticket reference , they 'll find your ticket which they should 've already printed , stamp it , and hand it over . At this point , look at the time . You need to be at the right point on the platform 5 minutes before scheduled departure , and I 'd suggest at least 10 , ideally 15 minutes before to avoid stress/worry . The platform should be announced 30 minutes or so in advance . That gives you your waiting time , which could be fairly short , especially if there were delays ! In the <URL> , there are a few cafes . I seem to recall there are some with power sockets , ca n't remember about wifi . I picked the one nearest the ticket office last time I was there , and it was fine to kill the time until the train . There area also some seats in the central area which are at a bench-thingy with power sockets , most of which worked . If you have under an hour , just pick one of those If you have a long time , it 's a 5-10 minute walk to much of T2 , so you can always go for landside cafes there
It depends on whether you want relatively flat trails or mountain biking , as you did n't say . The <URL> is a paved trail several miles in length that begins just north of Shea Boulevard and ends in Tempe . There are only a few places on the trail that require crossing a street , as there are lots of tunnels that pass below busy streets . There would be dozens of hotels located along this path , ranging from simple motel-like accommodations to pricey resorts . <URL> of the path and various connections . For mountain biking , I recommend South Mountain in Phoenix which is the largest city park in the world . There are more than <URL> in South Mountain ranging from 1 mile in length to 14 miles ( 58 miles total ) . Difficulty ranges from moderate to difficult . There are also several hotels/resorts in the South Mountain area . You could also check for accommodations in the <URL> of Phoenix just south of the mountain . Note that it is just starting to warm up here -- late April and it was over 100 ° F ( 38 ° C ) here today ( I live in Gilbert , just SE of Phoenix ) . The forecast for next week is mostly high 90 's to low 100 's ° F ( 35-40 ° C ) ; it 's just going to gradually get hotter . So take LOTS of water with you .
end question
start question
What does ' Pay for bed clothes ' mean on the russian railways website ?
When you take an overnight train in Russia and you book a sleeping compartment ( there are two classes of these ) , the compartments come with a mattress and a pillow . For the additional option you have asked about , , an attendant will come around and deliver a bottom sheet , top sheet , a pillow case , and a blanket . It 's impeccably sanitary and well-advised for this reason . If you do not purchase the option you get the standard mattress and uncased pillow , less sanitary . You do not get the previous passenger 's stuff ( except his detritus ) ; previously used bed clothing gets collected by the attendant .
<URL> is the group that manages passenger travel within Germany , and is responsible for the managing , ticketing , servicing and running of all German Intercity-Express , EuroCity , Intercity and Regionalbahn trains , and many commuter-oriented urban Stadtschnellbahn ( generally abbreviated as S-Bahn ) networks within Germany . The group also handles the information and customer service side of the operation . Presumably as your train is running from Dijon , France to Basel , Switzerland , it may fall on a route not covered by DB Bahn . Yes , some of the other routes by its partner companies may be included , but there are competitors on the rail network as well , and there 's no requirement to have those included on their site . Indeed , from <URL> : The Deutsche Bahn 's site does n't show fares for most trains outside Germany and Austria .
In my eyes 7/7 is shorthand for French which translates to . Meaning the business is open all week . Note that this does not necessarily mean that the business is also open 24h . Indeed in France you often read written on shops that are open every day of the week ( note the little , standing for == ) . For example , take <URL> showing a list of 24h businesses , and look at the description of the 24h pharmacy : Pharmacie ouverte 24h/24 et 7j/7 à Paris
There are some offers that start appearing on the web : A website called <URL> offers that ( it 's based in UK so be careful with currency of payment - see the <URL> to this question ) . <URL> offers flights and trains ( apparently it 's possible to book some outside France [ it 's a French travel agency ] but I can not guarantee it ) . In any way , as Mouviciel suggested , you can query trains in Europe from the <URL> / <URL> / <URL> providers but not book tickets out of these countries . You can have a lot of information on the trains ( like all stops ) and I use it sometimes for any train in Europe . It includes some local transit system . More generally , there is <URL> that will probably help you .
Tipping in cruises are categorized in 3 ways : Mandatory : Most cruise lines have a preset gratuity amount . The ones I have been on range from US$ 11-15 per person per day , which covers all ship staff : customer-facing and the one 's working behind-the-scenes . In fact this form of tipping covers a major portion of their salaries . Now many travel agencies roll these into their packages . Look for an itemized line reading " Prepaid Gratuities " . If absent , the charge will be applied daily to the credit card you use to place a deposit while on board . Obligatory : You will notice that most staff on reputable cruise liners will go above and beyond their call of duty . This can range from exceptional housekeeping , to some great recommendations at the dinner table . Some cruise operators will place an envelope in your room , where you can place cash tips for exceptional service , and also the person to address it to . Passive Tipping : We were told that post-cruise we would receive an extensive questionnaire soliciting feedback . Sure enough , we did . There were several opportunities in the forms to single out employees for recognition . I am told that the comments and citations go a long way in deciding their career path . So if someone does impress you a great deal , do make a note of their full name .
Sorry for the late answer . You should n't pay any hotel tax in Colombia , even if they insist . Anyone traveling on a tourist visa is exempt from paying taxes on any hotel registered with the National Tourism Register ( which I understand is a requirement for every hotel in the country ) or a travel package . I own a tourism company in Colombia and cleared this with my accountant in our initial meeting . I 've also traveled extensively in the country as a tourist before moving here and have never paid hotel tax . If IVA shows up on the bill at checkout , ask them to waive it and they usually do it without hesitating .
It means you should confirm your flight by 48 hours prior to departure . In reality your window is likely to be from a few hours before that point to a few hours after . And it can be essential for some flights , as if you do n't confirm then they may allocate your seats to someone else .
The weather in south it is often wet and windy , the north slightly less so , but can get some nasty cold spells , although it should n't be too extreme in July . For going high up in the mountains or travelling in the mid-interior you would need of course to be prepared for much lower temperatures and sometimes extreme weather . The main thing to think about is to have protection against wind and rain . So in order to avoid unpleasant experiences , I would suggest you bring at least the following items : A good wind and rain proof jacket with a hood A warm sweater ( which you can remove when temperatures are higher ) Pants with some wind and rain protection Strong hiking boots . They are essential for hiking as the rough terrain ( sharp rocks , lava ) you might encounter can otherwise quickly destroy your footwear Depending on your comfort level a pair of gloves and a hat might also come in handy if the temperatures get very low . You should be aware that the weather can fluctuate a lot in iceland , even in the same day . Another thing to keep in mind is that if there is direct sunlight and it is not windy it can feel much warmer than you would expect for the temperature . There might very well be times when you could get by with very light clothing .
The visas used to be 15 $ or 20 $ , and paying in Turkish liras was not an option . There was an ATM right next to the visa booth . However , as of the 10th of April this year , visas are now applied - and paid for online at <URL> . EU citizens can get the visa at electronic booths in the airport , but getting it online prior to arrival is cheaper .
The <URL> comes very close to what you are looking for . It has no option for the budget . I think it used to have one , but I never found it very useful . Budget is something very stretchy . It depends a lot on what you want to spend . Or put differently , you can control it , at least partially , by appropriately choosing mode for travel , accommodation , catering , etc. . Depending on the type of traveler you are , you can also try sites like ltur.com . There you specify a point of departure , and you can search according to regions and budget .
It very much depends on the countries you go to . Europe is EXPENSIVE . South America - not so much . North America - EXPENSIVE . Central Asia - not . I spent 4 months in South America doing pretty much whatever looked fun , and eating well . I initially stayed in the cheapest hostels possible , but quickly realised there 's a reason they 're cheap - had some interesting ones , that 's for sure ! After that I 'd pick the cheapest popular ones . However , if you do this , eat from the supermarket , take cheap buses , and all that , you can very easily do 20-25 Euros a Day . A bit harder in Chile , much easier in Bolivia . This past summer I went from London to Mongolia overland . Western Europe hurt a little . The Baltics ( Latvia , Lithuania ) were great , then Estonia which uses the Euro pushed rates up a bit for food . Then I hit Finland , and goodness it was expensive - all the Nordic countries are . Russia is more expensive than you 'd think in the tourist cities - St Petersburg and Moscow . Once you 're into Siberia , things are much better . And Central Asia - the ' stans , and Mongolia - accommodation is very good value , and so is food . Transport depends on your bargaining skills in Russian / local language ;) And eating from the markets can save you a lot ! Again on this trip , it varied . In Europe , you needed 20 Euros sometimes just for the hostel . In Uzbekistan , it was much better . My accommodation in Dushanbe , Tajikistan was one of the more expensive ones , but it meant I had wifi which I 'd been missing for a couple of weeks . Of the RTW travellers , I find a lot of them talk with glee about the cheap prices in India and SE Asia . Some are shocked by the prices in China being expensive in tourist spots - more so than Europe . And some are also surprised at how expensive Australia and NZ are ( and so are the locals , I can tell you ! ;) ) . So it all depends on your style of travel . You could easily spend US$ 30,000 and have an absolute ball . You could also spend around 6 grand ( 500 a month ) if you 're really frugal and careful about what you do/eat , and where you go . You could n't do that easily in Europe . It 's all part of the fun . If you come home early , it probably just means you spent it and had a great time . If you can eek out the cash , you 'll have had more experiences , just not expensive ones ;)
It seems to be a <URL> ; you can find it on the <URL> website .
Right , firstly according to <URL> , each airline has different chime meanings . However , on <URL> , we have a list of all of the chimes - but presumably it 's for a specific plane , and it does n't say which : Generally they are as follows : - 1 x chime for a passenger call bell 2 x chimes if the crew are calling each other 2 x chimes to indicate takeoff and landing 5 x hi / low chimes an emergency !!! 2x bong !! for the seatbelt sign flashing for top of climb for crew to be released and same again for crew to be seated for landing ! 3x Chimes if toilet smoke detector activated 1x Chime for toilet call bell 1x HIGH , HIGH LOW Chime for emergency Interphone call to Manager 1x LOW LOW HIGH Chime for Crew help needed ! If you listen carefully the are two tones of call chime . A high and a low . These will vary depending on operator and aircraft type ! This is confirmed again on <URL> , where they show that for Canadian Airlines it 's as follows : 1 bell - passenger call , lav call , change in cabin signs , five minute warning prior to landing , crew communication via interphone 2 bells - F/A to contact the flight deck for a message 3 bells - Take-off or landing imminent - take your jump seat 5 bells on the ground - evacuate 5 bells inflight - F/A to report immediately to the flight deck to receive emergency instructions The same forums have <URL> , so it would certainly seem to vary from company to company .
The main difference between Tatkal and Premium Tatkal is that Premium Tatkal is an Online Only service . According to <URL> Passengers can book premium Tatkal tickets online only on the pattern of airline fares - more the demand , higher the fare . According to a Railway Board official , premium Tatkal tickets are dynamically priced like air fares . The minimum premium fare is the basic train fare plus Tatkal charges , which vary from 10 % to 30 % depending on the class of travel , he said , adding the maximum limit for booking premium Tatkal ticket is 30 % of the base fare or Rs400 , whichever is higher .
Dining cars are present on almost every long-distance train . They offer rather good food ( although I have little experience to compare it to European trains ) , though I would not expect much delicacies , just a good food of a middle-range city restaurant . Specifically for Baikal fish , I doubt it , except probably when you travel near Baikal itself . In addition to restaurant cars you can also buy basic snacks from a conductor at your car , and sometimes a waiter from a restaurant car would go through the train offering snacks to passengers . At the same time , as many have mentioned here , on every station where the train stops for at least 20 minutes1 , there usually will be locals selling food to you right from the platform . The quality of that food varies a lot ( with no medical control etc. ) , but it is indeed a chance to try a good local food . I have never traveled near Baikal , but I 've been once in Karelia , and a great choice of cooked ( smoked etc. ) fish was available . However , I think this might depend on a season . Apart from these local specialties , locals will be selling mostly basic food appealing for low-class travelers trying to eat as cheap as possible . Sometimes these locals will even buy a ticket from one station to a neighbor one and walk through train offering their products , so you might even not need to walk out . Also note that you can buy tickets with meals included , but this usually starts from 2nd class . On a short trip ( 1 night and shorter ) this will be just several snacks and some drink , but on longer trains they can bring some basic hot food from the dining car directly to your compartment . When booking a ticket , look for label like " У2 " in the carriage class field . " У " stands for " услуги " ( " services " -- meals , and also includes a few newspapers etc. ) , while the number stands for the number of meals included . The boilers are available in every sleeping car , except for some exceptional circumstances such as boiler malfunctioning or running out of water . Not that these are unheard of , but rather rare , and most probable it will be OK to go to another carriage and use their boiler in such a case . The water quality might be not the best , and personally I dislike it and try to avoid , but many people do drink it . The biggest concern is not sanitary problems , but just some metallic smell etc. . Also a bigger problem might be lack of cold ( well , room-temperature ) drinking water ; you may find that boiling water is the only drinkable water you can get . It is a good idea to have a bottle or two of drinking water with you . Also note that there are different train types in Russia . The best are so-called " firmenny " trains ( фирменный поезд ) , or the " premium " ( " премиум " ) introduced several years ago . They have all the facilities ( from restaurant cars to 3rd class carriages and toilets ) much better than other trains , but the tickets are also more expensive for the same class . At the other end , during high season ( summer ) you might see temporary trains assigned for just a couple of months . They are usually compiled of different old carriages and may have many different problems ; I even am not quite sure whether they have a dining car at all . A rough rule of thumb is the less is the official designated number of train/route ( you see it when you book the tickets ) , the better is the train : trains from 1 to approx . 150 are firmenny trains , while those temporary trains are usually assigned numbers at about 800 and above . Intermediate numbers and trains also exist . 1 Such stations are usually every several hours of train trip . And yes , even if the train comes to the station in dead night , some locals still probably will be there .
It 's the order in which you checked in to the flight segment . The first person to check in will get seq 001 , onwards up to the last person who checks in . That does not make it the same as the order in which you obtained your boarding pass , although in most circumstances you would receive a boarding pass at the same time as you check in . If you obtain another boarding pass it will have the same sequence number ( unless for some reason you were offloaded from the flight in the mean time ) , even if printed by another airline . Some people competitively attempt to obtain sequence number 001 . I suppose everyone needs to have a hobby . [ In some cases it is relevant , for instance for a while British Airways prioritized upgrades by whoever checked in first ( amongst other considerations ) , and United Airlines uses it as a tie-breaker if two people have otherwise equivalent precedence for an automatic upgrade . ] The Apollo computer reservation system does not use sequence numbers .
What usually happens is that originally , there is a station named X ( which may or may not be named after the city where it is located ) . At some point it is decided that the area needs a new station , and that the new station shall just be named " Shin-X " , which should be understood as meaning " the new X " . Sometimes the reason why a new station is necessary is that a new Shinkansen line to the area is planned and it is determined that the existing station is not suitable to accomodate it . This is what happened in Shin-Osaka for example : the area around Osaka station did not have enough room for the necessary developments . There can be many other reasons why a new station is needed , however . In the case of Shin-Sapporo , it was to serve a new urban development ( which incidentally was also named Shin-Sapporo ) . An interesting one is Shin-Rifu ( in Rifu town , near Sendai ) which was established when the Tohoku Shinkansen started operating , not because the Shinkansen actually goes to this station , but to accomodate employees and visitors of the neighbouring Shinkansen rail yard . The Japanese wikipedia page of a station usually has a " History " section where some background information about its establishment is given . And sometimes Shin is just part of the " actual " name of the station , as with Shintoku station ( in Shintoku city , Hokkaido ) .
The one and only country-wide official source is the <URL> , the Brazilian 's government official body for road transportation . Apparently its an unfriendly website to get to grips with . This blog entitled " <URL> " provides additional resources for the ANTT ( inc. a step by step guide to using the ANTT site ) &amp; other sites relating to bus travel within Brazil :
It looks like it is a yearly thing , renewing the old one when the new one is up . In the church I read about it was done as part of the Epiphany Mass. . It is a blessing to the house . 20 and 15 being the year , C ( K ) , M , B being the initials of the traditional names of the wise men , Caspar , Melchior and Balthasar , they can also stand for Christus Mansionem Benedicat , the Latin words meaning , May Christ bless this home . I found that on <URL> which explains more about the custom . And here is <URL> , with an other year . As you can see from the sites I linked to , it is not restricted to Czech republic , one of them clearly about a church in the UK while the other is about seeing the letters and numbers on the walls in Germany . In the comments it is mentioned that it is common in Czech republic and in several German speaking areas , and that it is often done by ( young ) children , as part of the Epiphany traditions . That is the feast celebrating the comming of the three wise men to Jesus soon after birth , the day of the celebration is January 6th ( in the Roman Catholic church at least , and in the churches split off from it . )
Yes and no . Yes , because the 10 % deposit they charge indeed goes to Hostelbookers.com , not the hotel . ( See <URL> . ) No , because you , the backpacker , do n't pay any extra . You can pay ( say ) $ 20 to book via HW , in which case HW takes $ 2 and the hostel keeps $ 18 , or you can pay $ 20 to the hostel directly and they keep all of it . I presume HW insists on this as a condition of listing with them , precisely so that they can advertise " no booking fee " and get as much business as possible . In either case , you 're paying the same $ 20 , with no additional charges to you . Compare this with some airline booking engines like Webjet , where you pay the regular cost of the ticket plus the engine 's booking fee on top of that , and could have saved money by booking with the airline directly .
end question
start question
How much time do I require to make a connection in Munich airport ?
The Minimum Connection Time between flights landing in Terminal 2 ( Lufthansa ) and flights departing from Terminal 1 ( Vueling ) is 45 minutes . Thus technically this is a valid connection . However valid connection does not mean that you will make your flight - it just means that the airlines will let you book such a connection when booked on the same ticket . If you are planning to book these two flights on the same ticket , then it 's potentially worth the risk . If you miss the outbound flight then it will be up to the airlines ( most likely Lufthansa ) to get you to your destination , either by moving you to a later Vueling flight , or more likely by putting you on one of their own flights to your destination . However , if you are considering booking these flights on separate tickets then your chances of something going wrong are very high . One of the reasons that MUC has such a low Minimum Connection Time is that they will make arrangements for getting people directly from inbound gate to outbound gate - especially in cases of delayed inbound flights ( eg , using vehicles that drive across the airport itself ) . If you are on multiple tickets then they will not know that you are connecting , and thus will not make any such arrangements for you . On separate tickets it is still possible that you will make your connecting flight , but personally I would never consider such a short connection . Your odds of missing the flight are too high , and if you do miss it you 'll likely have to purchase a new ticket to get yourself to your destination .
<URL> If you are flying out of Lima internationally , the airport tax is US$ 31 , US$ 7.40 for domestic flights . As of January 2011 this tax has been rolled into the purchase price of the tickets at this airport . Ensure you receive a sticker on the back of each ticket from the check-in counter to attest to this at the security checkpoint .
You could acclimatize yourself to raw fish now . I am not a big fan of fish and I do not find it hard to avoid fish products when I 'm in Japan ( although I suppose I could be consuming them unwittingly ) . In most large , commercial places the Japanese are quite accepting of foreigners ' strange requirements , although in the smaller restaurants and bars where English is not spoken you will find it difficult . You could try this website for more advice : <URL> and I am sure Google can furnish you with many others .
Since you are transferring from a non-Schengen flight to an intra-Schengen one , you will enter the Schengen Area in Switzerland . <URL> Travel outside the Schengen area If you are travelling to or from countries that do not adhere to the Schengen Agreement you will have to pass through passport control in Zurich . Likewise , transfer passengers travelling to or from the Schengen area from a non-Schengen country will have to pass through passport control in Zurich in future . Generally speaking , your luggage will be checked through to your final destination if you booked the connecting flights via the same airline , and/or booked with separate airlines but both flights are on the same ticket .
I would say that you do n't have to negotiate a price - usually driver just tell the price and you accept it :) However , you may get a " bonus " as a foreigner , but I do n't expect it to be more then 20-40 % . Regarding sample price for 100 km . According to my latest experience ( and google result ) , MastaBaba is more-or-less right - ~ 30 euros for bus for 10-15 people .
Having consulted for a few travel agencies , here is some insight : The bigger the agency , the more discounts they get on tickets . This means that the more the agency is popular , the more the airlines are willing to give them a rate because they sell out their allocation . Some agencies reserve ( block ) slots in advance which gives them a discounted price . This is usually done during the busy summer travel season . Then it is upon the agency to sell of their allocation . Note that if they do n't sell off their allocation , they are stuck with the seats - they ca n't be used on other dates ( the block is for a date range ) . Agents partner with travel networks ( <URL> , <URL> , etc. ) to which airlines feed their availability . Agents then have partnerships with particular airlines to be able to issue tickets on their behalf . Agents can have partnerships with multiple airlines and cruise/hotel networks . If you are looking for a cheap fare , here is what you need to watch out for : Timing ( how quickly do you want to fly ) . Route ( a city pair will have multiple flights ) . Season ( during travel seasons , seats fill up quick so prices shoot up ) . The agent . In this respect , the cheapest option is the airline direct ( either through their website , or their own offices ) , then you can look at online travel aggregator websites like Expedia and Travelocity , and then finally a travel agent .
I found some answers at their website at <URL> : They only have self-service kiosks in Riga : Currently available to our passengers travelling from Riga airport , self-check-in kiosks allow you to check in at the airport free of charge . Also , they do have a 10 EUR airport check-in fee , but that <URL> " passengers who have already checked in online , via mobile check-in or at a self service check-in kiosk " . They <URL> that they 'll print it for free as long as you have checked in online : Hello ! We 're sorry for late response . If you 've checked in online , you can get a boarding pass at the check-in desk free of charge . Anyway , it looks like their <URL> is a better option if you happen to be in possession of a mobile phone , as you avoid queuing at the check-in desk : A : With airBaltic mobile check-in you will save time and money , escape queues and the EUR 10 check-in fee at the airport . It gives you flexibility and the possibility to check in on your way to the airport . Please pay attention to the check-in deadline . You enter booking ref and surname ( whether or not you 've already done online check-in ) and get a " mobile boarding pass " with QR code to show at the gate : Edit : Last weekend I used the mobile boarding pass on four separate airBaltic flights , so I can confirm that there is no need to print anything by yourself .
The airport itself is in the middle of nowhere , I do n't think there is any walkable attraction around but the public transport connections are very good . If you did not plan to go there during the next days and did not have to worry about a small kid , taking the train to the center of Amsterdam would be the obvious choice . I do n't know Hoofddorp itself but note that the area was a lake until the 19th century . The city was created from scratch after the land was reclaimed so you should not expect a typical historical Dutch town ( but that might be interesting in itself ) . The pumping stations and the countryside in the vicinity ( <URL> and the area around Buitenkaag and the <URL> ) are definitely worth a visit if you are interested in the history of the landscape but they are not so easily reachable and you would need more time than an evening to go there . As far as restaurants are concerned , iens.nl is probably the most popular website in the Netherlands . <URL>
Being a frequent transatlantic passenger to New York from UK I have many experiences of customs and immigration in USA . I have done both scenarios several times . Because of my origin location , flight time is roughly the same : Newcastle - Dublin - New York Newcastle - Amsterdam - New York Newcastle - Heathrow - New York What I find quicker by an average of an hour is the lack of queue at Dublin for pre clearance checks . Time I would be using in Amsterdam or Heathrow to browse the selection of shops and restaurants before my connection is now spent pre clearing immigration in Dublin .
You normally should be able to make your connection in Chicago with about an hour , so with 1:50 , you have plenty . However , there is always a chance that your flight is late , or the lines are longer than usual , or something else happening , so you can not avoid a small chance of not making the connection . Typically , the airline will rebook you on a later flight for free . AA also has multiple later flights to STL ( last at 9:15 pm ) . If your incoming flight is late , make sure to tell the personnel ( on the flight already ! ) that you are having that connection . They can call ahead and might fast track you through immigration to help you make it .
It seems almost everyone is in the " no " camp , however there does n't seem to be a lot of corroborating evidence presented . Here 's an excerpt from American Airline 's <URL> Carrier undertakes to use its best efforts to carry the passenger and baggage with reasonable dispatch . Times shown in timetables or elsewhere are not guaranteed and form no part of this contract . Carrier may without notice substitute alternate carriers or aircraft , and may alter or omit stopping places shown on the ticket in case of necessity . Schedules are subject to change without notice . Carrier assumes no responsibility for making connections . Delta US <URL> : Delta is not responsible or liable for making connections Delta International <URL> Except as stated in this rule and as provided in Rule 55 , Delta will have no liability for making connections ... In the event of flight cancellation , diversion , delays of greater than 90 minutes , or delays that will cause a passenger to miss connections , Delta will [ accommodate passenger ... ] ( Rule 55 does n't appear to add anything substantial here ) British Airways <URL> : 9b3 ) If we : ... cause you to miss a connecting flight on which you hold a confirmed reservation ; you can choose one of the three remedies set out [ ... ] Qatar <URL> : 2.2 Extension of Validity If you are prevented from travelling within the period of validity of the Ticket because we : ... 4 . Cause you to miss a connection The Validity of your Ticket will be extended until our first flight on which space is available in the class of service for which the fare has been paid . I expect most airlines will show some discretion especially if you 're obviously incapable of hurrying to your connecting flight and it is at the other end of the terminal , but this discretion does n't seem to be backed up in the CoC . There is some ambiguity in " if we cause you " , since that might be possible to interpret as " we gave you such a short connection that you could n't make it " . A few anecdotes from flyertalk . They 're not directly analagous to " not running " , but do show that if the airline feels it 's not their fault , it might not be yours either , but you may be the one on the hook for a new ticket : <URL> . I therefore missed the connection , and they want me to pay rebooking fee and taxes and fare difference etc etc which costs like 500 usd <URL> she was forced to buy 2 walk up Y tickets for about $ 1500 <URL> The agent told me that it would be more expensive to change my original ticket , than to simply purchase the additional 1-way ticket
The metro link to the airport is newly opened ( Monday 3rd November 2014 ) See official <URL> for details and map . So you will need to take a tram from the Airport to Trafford Bar and change for a tram for one stop to Old Trafford . <URL>
<URL> . It is the official Munich website and it lists some places where you can park your camper . A lot of them are camping grounds , but there are also some areas where you do n't have to camp but where you just can leave your camper . At the bottom of the page there are also some special places listed , that are only available during the Oktoberfest . I think this suits your best .
When I 've had to wear my boots due to not having space left in my luggage I generally loosen the laces ( and tuck them inside the shoe to stop tripping over ) whilst in the queue meaning when I actually get to the front it 's just a matter of slipping them off . Then at the end I put them back on and do the same with the laces to walk to a chair - there are usually plenty nearby - to put them back on . If there 's no queue you can take your time about it without feeling guilty , although that 's a rare occurrence .
For wait staff at restaurants : from 10 % -20 % , depending on quality of service . For the bell-hops ( the person that takes your bags to your room ) : $ 2 + ( $ 1/bag , with a $ 2 minimum ) . <URL>
Generally shopping malls in Taipei open by 11 AM but other shops open by 10am . It says here : <URL> Working hours department and other stores are 10:00 -9:30 pm ( some stores upto 22h ) This page says <URL> Shops are open daily 1000-2200 , while night markets stay open till 0100 and convenience shops are open 24 hours . As for shopping markets , including <URL> ( boai road ) , you can see here : <URL> <URL>
In theory , a mountain hut should never send away a tired tourist , especially if he does n't have a chance to reach another safe place before sundown . But in summer some of the huts are so full , that tourist need to sleep in dining room on the floor . In Slovakia , the huts range from small , with capacity of 20 people , to large with capacity of over 100 people . I suggest checking <URL> for information about the hut , find their phone number and under you can check their capacity . As for tents , most of Tatra area is a national park , and in such you are not allowed to camp or walk away from marked hiking tracks .
PEK-J268-GYD-J263 TXL has a layover of 1 hour 45 minutes in GYD . This is above minimum connection time and should be fine . However , Azerbaijan airlines ( J2 ) only has one flight per day from GYD to TXL so if you do miss it , they would most likely rebook on you on the next day and you would have to stay overnight . It is possible that they could also rebook you via another route and occasionally might rebook you to another airline , but I would doubt that . Airlines rarely wait for connecting passengers these days , but might if there are a considerable number arriving from a connecting flight . Your bag should be checked through to your destination and you should n't have to pick it up in Baku . Enter your citizenship and travel details in <URL> and it will tell you whether you need a visa . Timatic is the system the airlines use to determine whether you require a visa and thus wo n't carry you without it .
When it comes to tipping there are no generic rules . There are recommendations which may or may not be followed . When it comes to complimentary breakfasts or complimentary meals I usually apply a monetary value to them and tip according to that . What most people do is in this case irrelevant because it 's your money and your expectation of service if you are staying multiple days in the same hotel . So if you 're unable to see what people are leaving for tips you should consider how much this meal is worth to you and leave the tips according to that .
There are already answers that explain border formalities , but I think the asker 's confusion here stems from not really having understood what a visa is and what it 's for , so let 's take that . Most fundamentally , a visa is something you apply for in advance . You go to the embassy/consulate of the country you want to visit , or you mail in all your documentation , and then they keep your passport for ( up to ) several weeks while their bureaucrats make a decision whether you should be allowed to go there , and eventually you get your passport back either with or without a colorful sticker ( or , in earlier times , an ink stamp ) that says you 're permitted to go to such-and-such country in such-and-such period . ( You pay a fee when you apply for a visa , which you wo n't even get back if they refuse , the point being that it should n't be the taxpayers of the destination country who pay for the bureaucracy that processes the applications ) . When you actually go there , there will be further questioning and stamping of your passport at the border when you you arrive , as the other answers explain -- how much depends on the country , but unless the country and yours are exceptionally chummy with each other , you would at least get a stamp in your passport saying that you passed through this-or-that border point on such-and-such day . You 'll need that stamp later if you need to document to police or other authorities ( such as the exit passport control when you leave ) how long you 've been there . The purpose of the apply-in-advance must originally have been something about keeping spies and criminals out -- and they 're still looking for that , but in practice the most important consideration is that if you come from a poor country and want to go with a rich one , the rich country wants to be really sure you 're not going to move there , taking jobs from the locals -- or , worse yet , loafing around on their welfare system 's expense . Unless you can prove beyond a reasonable doubt that that 's not your thing , you wo n't get a visa . Visa-free travel comes about when two ( usually rich ) countries come together and agree , " look , we 're both pretty good places to live , so the risk that one of your guys is going to find it attractive to be an illegal immigrant with us ( or vice versa ) is pretty small . All that visa bureaucracy makes trade and tourism between our countries more difficult , let 's just cut it out , okay ? " So the two countries agree that holders of each others ' passports do n't need to get visas before they travel -- but usually they will still be questioned and stamped at the border . In some countries , such as the UK , visa-free travelers will generally be met with more suspicion at the border because they have n't been pre-cleared ( but it 's still less hassle than applying for a visa for most travelers ) . In other places , such as the Schengen countries , all people from third nations in principle get the same screening at the border , and getting a visa is an additional hurdle to clear for citizens of less fortunate countries . Poor countries do n't generally have to fear a flood of economic migrants from rich countries , so when they require visas of travelers from the rich parts of the world , it is either a case of national paranoia or pride ( both of which happen in the developed world too ) , or because country A demands visas of country B 's citizens , and country B reasons that " if they make a hassle for our people , we 'll make a hassle for theirs too " . Then there 's something called visa-on-arrival . In this case one does n't have to apply in advance , but can just arrive at the border to be questioned and stamped , like in the visa-free case . But you have to fork over money for a " visa fee " before you 're let in -- effectively just a tax on arriving travelers from certain countries . Typically this happens when country B above wants to have their cake and eat it too . They 're not really interested in pre-screening country A 's citizens , but they do want them to suffer in proportion to how their own citizens suffer when going to A , so they require a visa fee in the same ballpark as that charged by A 's consulate . Or , of course , it may simply be a tax , levied because they can .
end question
start question
Can I carry a violin as cabin baggage from Europe to Asia on Lufthansa ?
<URL> : Passenger : Dear Lufthansa My sister is flying with Lufthansa on Thursday , from Johannesburg to Zagreb . She will be flying with her musical instrument , the violin . Please let me know how we can get permission for her to take her violin on board as hand luggage , as she can not let it out of her sight , even for a second . In the past , it was no problem to take it on board , but lately I know of some challenges . The violin in its case is les than 2 kg . Lufthansa : Dear Katrien , if your sister is travelling in Economy Class , then she is allowed to bring on piece of hand luggage into the cabin . The maximum weight is 8 kg and the maximum dimensions are 55 cm x 40 cm x 23 cm . If these restrictions are not exceeded than it should n't be a problem to bring her violin into the cabin . More information about hand luggage can be found here : <URL> Passenger : Thank you . The dimensions are 15 x 25 x 85 though . Lufthansa : Dear Katrien , as one of the given dimensions is exceeded I ca n't guarantee from my side that your sister will be allowed to bring her violin into the cabin . This decision needs to be made by my colleagues at the airport . So it 's going to depend on what size your case is , I suspect , and the feelings of staff at the airport , on the day , as to whether it 's allowed as carry-on . As for checking it , Lufthansa , like other airlines does their utmost to ensure it 's safe . However , airports employ non-airline staff to handle luggage , so sometimes it 's out of Lufthansa 's control . In the event it IS damaged ( unlikely but possible ) , <URL> : Report the damage immediately at the airport Make a subsequent complaint about damage and that they 'll compensate you <URL> - roughly 1200 Euros , which can fluctuate . So ideally you 'll want good travel insurance , with your instrument itemised on that policy beforehand , with photos and details to prove it before you depart .
No , <URL> . However , <URL> if you 're carrying a lot of currency or other valuables in order to prevent drawing attention to items that could be stolen . This is probably good advice since you are separated from your luggage for a bit at the checkpoint , especially if you get stuck waiting in a slower-than-normal line for the scanner after placing your baggage on the conveyor . I 've heard that the United States government can and is seizing any amount of cash over a certain dollar amount at airports . That is definitely not true . They may be curious why you 're carrying $ 30k in cash and may ask you about it , but they will not ( and , legally , can not ) seize it unless they have probable cause to believe that you have committed or are about to commit a crime and that said cash is reasonably likely to be evidence of said crime . If they do have probable cause to suspect a crime , then they can refer the matter to law enforcement and keep you around until law enforcement gets there to question you . From the TSA Management Directive copied into page 19 of <URL> : When currency appears to be indicative of criminal activity , TSA may report the matter to the appropriate authorities . For all flights , factors indicating that cash is related to criminal activity include the quantity , packaging , circumstances of discovery , or method by which the cash is carried , including concealment ... TSA may also note any factors related to criminal activity for purposes of notifying CBP [ for international passengers ] and/or law enforcement , as well as request that the individual remain accessible pursuant to such notification . Of course the best advice is probably to simply not carry large amounts of currency with you when you fly in the first place . If you carry it on , it could be stolen at the checkpoint either by a TSA agent or by another passenger . TSA does n't keep track of whose bag is whose when they go through the conveyor . If someone grabs your bag or takes something out of it before you clear the scanner , they are n't going to know that the bag does n't belong to that person until it 's too late . For checked luggage , you are separated from it from the time you check in until you get to the baggage carousel at your destination . Airline agents , TSA agents , baggage handlers , ground crew , etc. at each airport you transit have access to your bags when you ca n't see them , so it would be nearly impossible for you to catch the culprit if someone decided to help themselves to some cash . If you do have to fly with large amounts of cash , <URL> has useful advice .
There seems to be no limit as such . However if you carry more than 10 ' 000 $ , you <URL> depending on the country . For example in <URL> , you are to declare it when orally asked to do so . For the <URL> on the other hand , there seems to be no need to do so . So if you consider taking more than 10 ' 000 $ , you should check the rules for the specific country you are flying to .
I am operating with an MLC backpack both on plane and at conference and if it 's slightly larger than the locals daypack -- oh well . It would work less well with a rolling carry on of course . eBags Mother Lode Convertible ( I used this before ) , Tortuga , Patagonia etc etc the list is endless of these backpacks . ( I am experimenting with a Magma Control-Backpack XL currently but unless you also want to carry on a 19.5 " monitor , that 's probably not the best choice . ) Another solution is to put the 240gr Bach Itsy Bitsy backpack ( which I also have ) in the carry on ( or checked in ) . The backpack is big enough : even my T420 laptop + sleeve fit in there and provides structure . Your laptop is likely thinner and lighter . Unlike most such collapsible backpacks this is strategically reinforced where necessary so while it 's very low weight you can carry like 4-5 kgs in it without a problem . Probably even more but I did n't dare to test further . Finally , you can just carry your normal laptop backpack ( my choice is the Briggs &amp; Riley Verb Activate but many are good choices , this just happens to be the best :P ) and a small duffel ( there 's no competition here , the Red Oxx XS Aviator is where it is ) as a personal item and check in everything else in a suitcase . I did this before as well .
After some inspection and asking few crew members . It turns out that if you enter any country within the Schengen area as a crew member then you can move within the Schengen area . Make sure you have your passport and a copy of the crew members General Declaration . UPDATE : I went to Amsterdam and came back , I asked the police at the station in Paris and he said it 's ok . Anyway no one stopped me or asked me . All went smooth just like a domestic trip .
I think I found the answer . Most airport has this facility where you can drop-off ( store ) your carry one and pick it up before flight . There is usually a fee for it . <URL> 9 pounds/day <URL> 20 durham/day
De jure there are dozens of complex laws and regulations regarding remote employment , under which you may or may not need a special visa in order to work in a given country . Tax laws are an additional complication , where countries such as the UK can deem you as a tax resident for <URL> on British soil . De facto , as long as you do n't mention your remote job to immigration personnel at the airport , there 's a 99.99 % chance no one will ever find out . There are millions of people breaking the law by being employed at on-site jobs in any given country , so digital nomads are a pretty low priority for law enforcement .
A UK entry clearance gives you ' formal ' permission to arrive/depart any time between its start and end dates . The form asked for your travel dates so that they can try to align the visa 's start date so that your time in the UK is maximized . Once the entry clearance has been issued , it 's ok to change your actual travel date . You can arrive at 12:01 AM on the start date of your visa or any time after that over the visa 's life time . Trying to arrive earlier than the start date is not allowed . And remember , you will still have a landing interview , and if your actual dates somehow contradict the premise of your visit , the IO may become worried . Also remember that you signed an agreement to advise the British issuing post of any significant changes in your circumstances . It 's down to you to determine if your change of plans is derived from a reportable event .
It would depend on the security officer that checks you in and the country where your flight originates . <URL> especially cast iron ones it 's check only as evidenced in a <URL> . TSA also has a mobile app now that you can look at . But since it 's a flight originating from another country TSA rules may not apply so originating country 's rules will have to be followed . Based on additional information There is nothing specific regarding skillets for <URL> so they may allow skillet through but I would still put it into a checked bag or just ship it home .
I ca n't imagine any reason why you could not . Playing poker for money in the US may or may not be legal , depending on the state and the details of your game ( I am not a lawyer so can not advise you on specifics ) . But the chips themselves are perfectly legal . You can buy them at any game store , or the game section of a large store like Target . High quality poker chips are heavy , and airlines limit the weight of your luggage , so make sure you are under their limits to avoid steep extra fees . You may want to consider just buying a new set in the US .
So I 've answered a similar question somewhere on here before , but it was for freighters , so arguably different . Anyway , when I was looking into this a few years ago , I based my search on real travel a friend of mine did . She cycled from London to Christchurch , NZ by bike , and had to take boats where water got in the way . She had zero experience , but even if you have some experience , it increases the possibilities for you - on <URL> . This is for sometimes just company for the sailing parties , or to help with expenses , or to actually work on board , depending on your level . She also found going down to the marinas and just asking around also gave her quite a few leads , as there 's usually more knowledge there about which boats need people .
If you 're going through customs and having all your stuff inspected ( as you will be ) it should n't matter as you 'll have all your bags with you . However , if you want to speed things up , have them readily available , in a separate plastic bag . If you have a piece of fruit loose in your luggage , they 'll likely want to check the rest of your luggage to make sure none has gotten further down . The inspect and release is probably to look for insects or seeds , so once they 're satisfied , you 'll get it back . Note that if you 're at all unsure , ALWAYS declare . Failing to declare something as seemingly innocuous as a piece of fruit in some places ( Aus , NZ ) can get you a sizeable fine - enough to put a dampener on your trip . Yes you 're going through Canada and the US , but check their customs signs and anything you 're uncertain on - check with them . Hot tip : I 've heard and seen people declaring stuff to speed up their trip through customs - by going in the short ' declare ' line and declaring something that is clearly not a problem ( like prescription medicine ) they get waved straight on through and out faster than anyone in the ' normal ' line !
You 're unlikely to have much issue with the carry-on limitations with just one or two small items held in your hands . A cell phone and pair of earphones in your pocket certainly does n't count toward carry-on baggage limits . The bigger issue is the need to secure items in the cabin for takeoff and landing . Many airlines ( particularly US airlines in my experience ) will instruct passengers to stow laptops at this time ( as they can become dangerous projectiles in case of an emergency ) and specifically state that a seatback pocket is not an acceptable place to store a laptop . Many new seat designs have done away with seatback pockets all together as well . Laptops must be stored under the seat in front of you or in the overhead bin . These are not places I would want to leave a bare laptop ( laptops will slide on the plane 's carpet ) . As such , I 'd highly recommend at least a small inexpensive <URL> to protect your MacBook . At security , customs , and immigration , one issue is just physically handling your items ; navigating an airport with a bare laptop in hand is somewhat inconvenient ( how would you hang on to it while you went to the bathroom for instance ? ) and makes it easy to accidentally lose something . Quickly handing over your ID and scanning your boarding pass is difficult to do one-handed , and carrying a tray of food while trying to hold your laptop in your armpit can quickly become precarious . Furthermore , security officials are trained to be suspicious of people who do not fit into the normal pattern of travelers , and someone who has no bag and chooses to carry a laptop in his hands is at least a little unusual . It 's not that you would n't be allowed to travel , but an immigration officer might ask you more questions . At a minimum , the items would need to come out of your pockets at airport security . Beyond that , there are some additional items I like to carry with me when I travel even if I am checking the bulk of my luggage . Medications , if you take any , should never be checked , as you would have a problem on your hands if your bags are delayed or lost . A change of underwear and a spare t-shirt are a nice backup in cast of lost luggage too , and I generally want basic toiletries for long flights . On a long flight , it 's nice to be able to take keys and such out of my pockets for a little more comfort . All those things go inside my bag . Finally , where 's the charger for your MacBook in all this ? In short , while this can work , I ca n't really understand why you want to do this . There 's a reason you do n't see people clutching laptops in airports ; a small bag or laptop case is the simplest way to carry and protect your items . Most travelers have realized this and so bring one along . How is not using a bag more convenient ?
The only one I 'm aware of is United Airlines , on Channel 9 ; this appears to be disappearing rapidly as Continental did not have it . Radios are never permitted in flight . However , there are <URL> so if the flight had WiFi you might be able to listen through a computer . I have used the iOS app version of LiveATC to listen to traffic control using inflight wifi ; this only works over 10,000 feet when the wifi is on and you have to know the frequency that your cockpit crew happens to be on .
If you are flying three CDG-FRA-ORD round trips per year on deeply discounted economy tickets on Lufthansa or Swiss , you should accumulate enough miles to redeem for a one-way transatlantic segment after about 3 years , or about 6 years for a round trip . If you can accumulate those miles faster through a credit card or other Miles &amp; More partners , you may be able to speed up that timeline a bit . There are several different ways you can fly in the business cabin without paying a business fare , so it will be helpful to go through them one by one to see how you could qualify on Miles &amp; More . eVouchers Miles &amp; More provides upgrade eVouchers to its frequent flyers for complimentary space-available single cabin upgrades . A flight within a single award region takes a single eVoucher , whereas flights between two different award regions ( e.g. Europe to North America ) require two eVouchers . In fact , you can even redeem eVouchers for Star Alliance partner upgrades , for certain booking classes . So , provided space were available and you had purchased a Y or B fare , you could upgrade an Air Canada flight CDG-YYZ using your eVouchers . Note that each redemption is for a single leg only . To upgrade all segments on a CDG-FRA-ORD flight , you 'd require three eVouchers total . There are two ways to get eVouchers through the Miles &amp; More program . The first is by attaining Senator status , which requires earning 100,000 status miles in a given calendar year . Each Senator is granted two eVouchers upon attainment or renewal of status . The second way is by qualifying for HON Circle , by accruing 600,000 HON Circle miles ( for flying in first or business class on Miles &amp; More member airlines and certain train journeys within Europe ) in two consecutive calendar years . HON Circle members receive 6 eVouchers upon attainment or renewal of status . Since you say you fly only three transatlantic trips a year , and in discount economy , it seems unlikely you will qualify for SEN or HON Circle . A CDG-FRA-ORD round trip is a little under 9700 miles , and discount fares earn only 50 % status miles per redeemable mile . Should you begin to fly more frequently or pay higher fares , however , these may be within reach . Mileage upgrades You can upgrade your transatlantic leg using miles . From a full economy fare ( B or Y ) , it would cost 35,000 miles , and from an M or H fare it would cost 50,000 miles . Through the Star Alliance upgrade program , you can also upgrade flights on Star Alliance partner airlines for the same level , provided you have purchased a qualifying fare ( B or Y , typically ) . A B , Y , M , or H fare will be considerably more expensive than a deeply discounted ticket , and you will almost certainly get better value for your miles by redeeming for business class awards as opposed to upgrades . This will be of particular interest since you are paying for your fares out of pocket . Mileage redemptions A one-way flight award between Europe and North America costs 52,000 miles , and a round trip costs 105,000 miles ( " Fly Smart " discounts may be available from time to time ) . Mileage redemptions , as noted , will be generally a better value than upgrade rewards , but may be harder to come by . You will need to plan your trips around the availability of business class seats , which will be low or nonexistent in the summer and other peak travel periods such as public holidays . Let us suppose you fly on Lufthansa CDG-FRA-ORD three times per year . It will take you a while to earn the miles required . Other airline programs If you credit your flights to United Airlines ' Mileage Plus instead of Miles &amp; More , you would receive 100 % mileage on M , H , Q , V , G , U , W , and S fares ( although the earning is 0 % on T or L fares ) . At the same time , a one-way business class award flight is only 50,000 miles and a round trip 100,000 . So , even if you continued to fly Lufthansa CDG-FRA-ORD , you could potentially redeem a bit faster . A downside is that Mileage Plus being a much larger program , you may have a harder time finding business class seats available for redemption . US Airways Dividend Miles may be easier to redeem for international rewards than Mileage Plus miles , but they only accrue 50 % on S and W fares , and only 100 % on Y and B fares ( Mileage Plus gives 125 % ) .
As far as UAE is concerned , there is only one issue at hand - since you are not going to consume alcohol inside the UAE but on-board the aircraft ; where they do not check your religion . If you appear publicly intoxicated , you are breaking the law . That 's it . So , as long as you can " hold your liquor " , you 'll be fine . The problem is that " intoxicated " is not a defined in the law ; unlike the US and some other places there is no field sobriety test . Pretty much you are at the mercy of the official . So , if you appear Muslim and are smelling of alcohol ; this may get you in trouble - especially if you are not a UAE citizen . I would recommend a breath mint , mouthwash , or perhaps some other method of calming your nerves during flight . I know some colleagues they use sleeping aids to help them rest - but of course , take these at the advice of your doctor .
<URL> shows that SCAT Airlines flies from MCX to Aktau , Kazakhstan , which technically is in Asia ( despite being only 300 km away , it 's on the other side of the Caspian Sea ) . These flights did n't seem to show up on Kayak , but it may be that SCAT does n't sell tickets through Kayak . All the other flights listed are within Russia .
Can you go to the US as a tourist - yes , Will the past cause any problems - likely . Your early refused entry will be in the system and likely the CBP agent will see it on their screen when you are processed . You can expect a longer round of questions and probably secondary questioning ( ie away from the initial counter ) . But assuming you did n't make a scene at your earlier refusal and the reason was as innocent as paperwork not being in place , then they may well let you visit . But really it is up to the agent processing you , no guarantees .
It seems to be a <URL> ; you can find it on the <URL> website .
I took my roller blades on board . There were no problems with roller blades at the airports . Airline company does not check what is inside . It is up to the airport security .
end question
start question
Northern Italy : east to west or west to east ?
I do n't think there is any reason why you should n't start your visit in Venice and come to Milan later on . I suppose your explanation about flights is sound and reasonable , although there are plenty of flights to Venezia Tessera as well as to Verona airport . Normally , Milano is not considered worth visiting for more than one day , although there are monuments and museums here as well . If you can spare 10-15 days to visit Northern Italy , then you should be able to have at least a couple of days in Milan ( a bit on the expensive side as far as hotels are concerned ... ) , at least 4 in Verona if you plan to visit Lake Garda as well , then the rest for Venezia , but you should n't miss Padua and the Brenta Riviera with the various Palladio villas , Treviso and perhaps Asolo or Bassano del Grappa . " Acqua alta " may be a problem , but it is not all that frequent in early November , and quite often the weather is still pleasant . Enjoy your visit , whichever direction you will travel .
As <URL> answer shows , wind is the primary determinant of the difference in speed . The <URL> is a prevailing wind that typically is going somewhere over the United States , and runs typically from the West Coast to the East Coast . As such , there is a prevailing headwind ( - mph ) going east to west and a prevailing tailwind ( + mph ) going west to east . The path of the jet stream is highly variable ( its usually shown on weather maps , because it is the primary determinant of weather ) , but can be usually thought of as a U shaped curve that on average goes from say , Oregon , south to Texas , and back up to say , Pennsylvania . How deep it goes , and how far north or south it is on any given day , can be off by several states . That 's also why flight times can vary so much from the printed value .
I recommend checking out the below links . Hopefully these will tell you what you need to know . Link 1 : <URL> You will need to translate the page , if you are in Google Chrome , you will be automatically prompted to do so . If not , go to google translate website and paste in the url of link 1 . If you are looking for a particular date when there may be strikes , your best bet would be to go to the below address . <URL> Here , you are able to search based on details you enter including date , location , sector etc. . All fields are optional . Again , translate the page first . The sector you are likely interest in is " trasporto ferroviario " for trains and " Trasporto Pubblico Locale " for local public transport . In the list of strikes , clicking the symbol on the right will give you more details on the strike , especially the intended duration . If you do not know any of the date , location or sector , link 1 will show you strikes in columns - the date , the location , the sector , details and location . Link 2 : <URL> In short , Itallians plan their strikes in advance . Details of when strikes are scheduled can be found on link 1 . If there is a specific service you are wanting to check , please comment it below . In response to your bonus question , " If your train is providing local transport during essential services for the peak times ( from 06:00 to 09:00 and from 18:00 to 21:00 Mon-Sat ) these will be are guaranteed . Some long-distance trains are also guaranteed on all days including holidays . " " Essential services mean that you will be transported to your destination somehow asap , just not nessecarily on the same train as originally booked . "
Regarding killing whales : legally , what you 're describing is a very murky grey area ( <URL> ) . You might be breaking international law , you might be breaking your own country 's laws by doing this overseas , you might even be breaking a seldom-enforced law in the country where the tour is operated . For an example of what can happen when someone trusts , as you do , that the local organisers have ensured everything is okay legally and morally , and kills a much-loved animal overseas , see the case of <URL> . It did n't go well for the hunter . Regarding sportingly pursuing whales : there is a very good , 100 % legal alternative , with no killing , harm or even distress to any whales , just a sporting hunt in the " find and seek " sense of the word , then peaceful mammal-to-mammal interaction . This looks like a good option since the asker mentioned they want : Tradition , fun , thrill-seeking , and ... generally awesome ... Catch and release would be fine by me too In Tonga ( English-speaking ) and I believe a few other countries , you can do tours which are like hunting whales , except when you catch up with the whales , instead of blasting them with an explosive harpoon which frankly ca n't miss because you 're aiming at a frigging whale ( in terms of challenge , surely the sporting equivalent of kicking a ball into the side of a barn ) , you jump out the boat with a pair of fins and a snorkel and swim with the whales . Mammal to mammal , minimal technology . If that does n't sound awesome , check out the final scene from the " Mammals " episode of BBC 's Planet Earth series , where you see the boat crew and underwater camera crew chasing humpback whales in Tonga . I ca n't currently watch video but <URL> ( feel free to edit in a better link ) . If it 's tradition you want , I 'd firmly recommend the way I did this , which is from <URL> . The owner of this private island has a motorised canoe based on the traditional design that the first Polynesians used to colonise this part of the South Pacific - those ancient Polynesians knew what they were doing , and it 's faster and quieter than the other whale boats around ( as well as very stylish ) . He also has 100 % traditional sailing canoes and is an expert sailor , but it 'd take a long long time to catch a whale the 100 % traditional way . You 'll go with a Tongan navigator who knows all the traditional tricks for reading the seas and working out where a whale may pop up next . It 's very difficult , and it makes for great sport . ( certainly , a more honest sporting challenge than using radar then blasting one of the world 's biggest mammals with an exploding harpoon ) Then you have to be ready to jump in the open sea at a moment 's notice when you finally catch up with a whale . Usually there will be two or three whales together ( mother , calf and male escort is pretty common ) , and , if you can keep up with them , you 'll get an unforgettable half hour or so diving underwater , watching them in their natural habitat , swimming up to the surface as they do to see them breach , etc. . Whale calves are quite curious too , you might get a little unforgettable interaction as a van-sized baby whale swims up to take a closer look at you . If you do want to kill things too ... Well , that 's still an option . The owner of the island is a keen spear-fisher , and has a dog who 's trained to bark when suitable fish swim close to shore . There 's excellent snorkelling all around the island , and if you can convince him that you know what you 're doing with a spear-fishing gun , I 'm sure he 'll point you in the right direction to hunt your supper . ( not whales though , that 's very very illegal ) Regarding ethics , some organisations speculate that whale-swimming trips might alter whale behaviour , and so in Tonga , to protect the whales , there 's a law that you ca n't go too close to the whales . It was 30m when I went , might have changed - but in those crystal-clear waters , that 's easily close enough , and frankly , going closer than this unless you 're a trained professional would be very dangerous anyway .
According to the <URL> there is nothing that goes directly to Venezia . There are 2 bus companies that service the Bergamo airport as well <URL> which could get you to Milan or Brescia and then you would have to take the train . The other one <URL> will only get you to Milan and then you can take a train or a bus . But based on what I am reading <URL> it 's not preferred and what you save may not be worth it . But if you still choose to go check out this site : <URL>
In this case , first , you want a live tube map with Google maps underneath . <URL> ( yes , those are the trains moving on the map ! ) As you can now clearly , see , this gives you a couple of options - the District Line ( Green ) and the Central Line ( Red ) . Upminster ( end of the District line ) is your closest stop there.There is a parking lot right next to the tube station , with a couple of hundred parks . The Google Maps satellite view shows that during the day even , this is n't totally full . Epping ( end of the Central Line ) is your second option . This is just near the junction of the M25 and the M11 . It too , has a big parking area next to the station . The downside here is that on Google Maps , it 's showing as completely full . Of course , you ca n't know for sure what time of day these images were taken . Personally I 'd go for the Epping one if you 're getting in early - the District line is one Londoners will not usually trust for reliability , and if you 're early enough you wo n't have to worry about the car park filling up too much . It 's also conveniently close to your M11 turn-off junction .
Be aware that for the most part , you ca n't go from the US to Cuba , unless specifically authorized by the government . Most people go to Canada or Mexico and fly from there . From Wikitravel : Jose Martí International Airport outside Havana is the main gateway and is served by major airlines from points in Canada , Mexico , and Europe . There are also regional flights from other Caribbean islands . Cuba 's national carrier is Cubana de Aviacion , connecting the island to a handful of destinations in Mexico , South and Central America , Canada and Europe . Flights from Miami to Cuba are offered to authorized American passengers . Try calling Cuba Travel Services ( CTS Charters ) . They offer daily non-stop flights between Los Angeles and Miami to Cuba . There are also regular holiday charter flights to resorts such as Varadero , and these can sometimes be less expensive than those going to Havana . Please note that if you have purchased a oneworld ticket then further flights into America within that year will be disallowed through American Airlines . As for what is the cheapest , that 's hard to answer as airlines change their prices and ca n't be answered objectively and accurately as they 're subject to change . In addition , it 's not possible to search for flights on large booking engines ( such as Kayak ) due to United States travel restrictions . As a result , you need to be creative : use European booking engines or go directly to the airlines ' websites . On a large European booking engine ( <URL> ) you can find flights from Cancun to Havana on combinations of Cubana and/or AeroMexico flights , . The flight time varies from 1 hour 15 min to 13 hours , depending on connections .
Information about Russian trains schedules can be found at the <URL> : Train # 006Ь Moscow - Ulan-Bator departure at 21:35 every Wednesday , Thursday , arrival at 06:30 every Monday , Tuesday . Stop in Irkutsk at 23:25 every Sunday , Monday respectively . Train Fares <URL> departure at 17:15 every day , arrival at 06:10 . About buses from Ulan-Ude - there are some talks at local forums that buses are really go , every day , and during summer even more than one , but information is from 2009 year , and ca n't find any newer . Buses ( they said ) departure at 10-00 , and after 8-9 hours you are in Ulan-Bator , but ca n't find official link for it .
<URL> . There are no ferry connections between Greenland and Iceland , Denmark or Canada . However , more and more cruise shipping companies are choosing to include Greenland on their itineraries , whereby it is possible to begin the voyage from Iceland or go onboard at , for example , Kangerlussuaq . Greenland being an island , I hope it is obvious that there are no roads linking it to a continent . While theoretically the sea freezes , the ice is not traversable by anyone other than a well-prepared team equipped for arctic exploration .
If you want to get from Wrocław to Warsaw quickly , the fastest ( 3h40 ) option is the EIP ( Express Intercity Premium ) train . It costs ~ 14EUR if you book ~ 2-3 weeks in advance , see <URL> for journey planner and tickets . If you 're buying on the day of the journey , the price rises to ~ 35EUR , but you should still be able to get a seat . Slower trains ( " TLK " , 6-7h journey time ) are cheaper than EIP if you 're booking just before departure . There is a relatively fast ( 4h50 ) coach service , <URL> . It will cost you ~ 10EUR ( unless you book on the day when they release cheap tickets , similarly to cheap airlines ) . You have to reserve your seat , but you do n't have to do it long time in advance . It is a popular route so even if you turn up on the coach ( PKS ) or train ( PKP ) station , you should be able to get a ticket for 10-15EUR for a departure within the next two hours or so .
Rental prices are not designed for periods of more than a few days . It might be possible to negotiate a long-term price at a flexible rental business . It 's definitely possible to get a decent used bike for 50-100 EUR . There 's a risk that it could be a stolen one , but almost none of running into problems , even if it is . I 'm pretty sure that shipping a bike from Germany to Egypt and back will cost more than 100 EUR .
If you are traveling to either Dubai or Sharjah wiping your Kindle is not required . If you are traveling with a non-portable computer ( a desktop ) they may ask you to turn it on just to make sure it is actually a computer and not something else . For portable computers ( laptops ) you do n't have to wipe them either . For printed books it 's a different matter , and it varies from country to country . A universal rule is that any printed media , film ( DVD , etc. ) that is pornographic or blasphemous religious is restricted and may not be allowed entry - even in a liberal emirate like Dubai . Further , pirated software may also be confiscated . They do n't search your laptop , but if you are carrying a large stack of CDs they might question you .
The Eurostar arrives at London Kings Cross/St . Pancras . From there you can catch the midland main line ( to Sheffield ) or the east coast main line ( to Newcastle and Edinburgh ) . If you wanted to go to Manchester you 'd need to take the West coast main line from Euston ( a 9 minute tube ride away ) . As long as you do n't mind changing trains , the Eurostar is a perfectly reasonable way of getting to northern England
In fact , your potential for scenic views will be higher on virtually any mode of transportation other than the bus ( plane , train , private car , boat ) . There is quite stunning scenery along the coast . Amtrak 's <URL> follows some of it , between San Luis Obispo and Oxnard , and a seat can be had for as little as $ 60 coach . But keep in mind that this trip will take a minimum of 12 hours from Oakland to Los Angeles , that there is only one train a day , and this train is frequently delayed . Renting a car and driving gives you the most flexibility to enjoy coastal scenery along routes such as the <URL> and <URL> . Of course , a one-way rental is costly , fuel is astronomically expensive by U.S. standards along parts this route , and as you can imagine , driving along oceanside cliffs is exhausting . Buses do not take the coastal route for the same reasons , aside from some tour buses that may take three or four days to make the journey . The scheduled passenger services all take the straight , fast , flat route through the Central Valley along Interstate 5 . As you can imagine , a freeway trip amidst heavy truck traffic passing through an endless series of farms and ranches is not particularly memorable . The bus does offer certain advantages over flying , but I would rate them all as moderate . Cost . An advanced purchase one-way Megabus ticket between Union Station in LA and the CalTrain terminal in SF runs around $ 34 ( and can be as low as $ 10 ) . The ride is about 7-8 hours . An advanced purchase Southwest Airlines ticket from LAX to OAK starts around $ 69 , with a block time of around 1 1/2 hours . Keep in mind too that on a long bus journey , you will be taking a meal at a truck stop , probably overpriced and of poor quality . Convenience . The necessity of airport transportation and security screening makes the time savings of a flight less dramatic , especially when services like <URL> offer stops in several neighborhoods . On the flip side , LAX , SFO , and OAK do have relatively convenient bus or rapid transit connections . Comfort . The bus is arguably more comfortable and offers more amenities , but this is offset by its much longer travel time . For example , many buses on this city pair offer in-seat power and WiFi , whereas few of the aircraft do ; however , the need for either is diminished on a 90-minute trip . By the time my bus would trudge through Kettleman City , I could already be checking email in a cafe in Santa Monica . Reliability . LAX and SFO are prone to fog at certain times of the year that is heavy enough to cause flight delays or cancellations . On the other hand , there are so many flights between the two areas ( dozens and dozens of flights if you include nearby airports ) that it is easy to be re-accommodated on a later flight the same day . In short , if you have money to spare , I 'd fly . If you have both time and money , I 'd take the train . The bus is a viable option , but it is a compromise .
Per GCMap , the route flies clearly south of Japan 's Okinawa island chain , and thus does not enter the ADIZ . Of course actual flight routings will vary from the ideal great circle route , but usually not by much . ( courtesy <URL> ) Also , <URL> that they will file flight plans with Chinese authorities . Not entirely sure if this affects all flights to/from Singapore , or just ones operated by Singaporean carriers though . Also also , I do n't see the Chinese shooting down passenger airplanes anytime soon , or even scaring them with fighter jets , it would be really bad PR for China 's " peaceful rise " .
Since you 've scoped your question to within " a few hours up or down the coast " , there are several options . I 'll limit myself to a 3-4 hours drive from Sydney CBD . You already found the Macquarie Lighthouse , so I 'll skip that one . <URL> Situated just over an hour north of Sydney , in Ku-ring-gai Chase National Park ( note : park entry fees apply ) , 91m above sea level . Built in 1881 from sandstone quarried on site . Its oil room and keepers ' cottages remain unpainted in the original stone finish . Access is over sealed roads , suitable for 2WD vehicles , followed by a 1km walking track . Guided tours ( 30 mins ) are conducted every Sunday . Contact Kalkari Discovery Centre ( 9472 9300 or 9472 9301 ) for more information . Prices mentioned <URL> ( not sure how up-to-date those are ) : $ 3 for adults , $ 2 for children . <URL> Photo by bilgolabob , courtesy <URL> . <URL> Situated about two hours north of Sydney . Modelled after the Macquarie Lighthouse and completed in 1903 . The lighthouse is available for accommodation , tours and weddings . At the time of writing this , tours cost $ 6 per adult , $ 5 per child ( 6 to 15 years ) and children 5 and under are free . For a group of 10 or more then a special price of $ 5 each applies , A family pass is also available for $ 20 . Prices for accommodation vary with the season and weekdays vs. weekends ( roughly $ 200 ~ 500/night ) . <URL> Photo by Yun Huang Yong , courtesy <URL> . <URL> Situated about three hours north of Sydney . Established in 1872 , now an inactive lighthouse without a tower , which makes it look more like a regular house . The light was shown through the window of a 10 ft frame lantern room attached to the keeper 's house . The light was moved outside the lantern in 1995 and then discontinued in 2003 . The house is accessible by road from Nelson Bay . It is open daily for visits ( 10am-4pm ) . Includes a tea room , gift shop and heritage museum . <URL> Photo by wood26 , courtesy <URL> . If you do n't mind venturing out further , there are a few more lighthouses that are open to the public ; i.e. . <URL> and <URL> ( both along the south coast of NSW ) . The site you linked to in your question has a convenient map with lighthouses as POI : <URL> Map courtesy of <URL> . Sources : <URL> <URL>
<URL> do offer what you 're looking for . It 's also possible to bathe in a large champagne glass : <URL>
Cheap international air tickets are generally not refundable . You will get some airport taxes back ( probably less than 100 USD ) minus an administration fee . Alternatively you might get a voucher that you can use towards a future flight on the same airline . It depends on how you buy the ticket . As a rule of thumb a fully refundable ticket will be about three times the price of the cheapest ticket you can find . Some airlines will let you change your ticket to a future date , but only if you tell them before the flight . Ten days is not last minute . Last minute is when you arrange your flight in the taxi to the airport . Anyway , ten days before I would expect the price of MCI-RIX-MCI to be about 1000 USD ( in economy class ) , providing your stay includes a Saturday night . Such a ticket is considered a deep discount advance purchase fare and remains unrefundable . In your shoes I would definitely purchase the ticket after I received the visa .
Your best bet for public transport access to the Ontario North is <URL> . They run scheduled buses from Toronto to the north , including Temagami ( but not Hiawatha , wherever that is ) . It is quite a trip , stopping at various small towns you wo n't get to otherwise . If you want to get to the real remote areas your best bet is the Polar Bear Express train to Moosonee - it 's as remote as you can get without flying , which I assume is outside your budget .
Yes , There are : Oman : Chinese , Russian and Ukrainian nationals may obtain visit visas following the same procedures provided that they are part of tourists groups arriving to the Sultanate through a local tourist agent or a hotel or as a family . In the case of groups , the number of females must not exceed the number of males . Source : <URL> Saudi Arabia : Due to the strict requirements of Saudi Arabia , women entering the Kingdom alone must be met by a sponsor or male relative and have confirmed accommodation for the duration of their stay . Additionally , entry may be refused to any visitor judged as behaving indecently , according to Saudi Arabia law and tradition . Source : <URL> Note that it 's extremely difficult for young , single women to enter the country unless it 's clear that they 're closely related to expatriate workers . Business women will encounter serious obstacles to entry unless they 're members of a Saudi family or have the sponsorship of a powerful Saudi national . Source : <URL> Qatar : For longer stays , visas must be arranged by having a sponsor . Unmarried women under the age of 35 will have a hard time in procuring a visa for a lengthy stay , as the country seems to fear that their safety and well being can not be guaranteed . Source : <URL> Syria : Citizens of Arab countries do not require visa , except unaccompanied Moroccan women below 40 years old . Source : <URL> Lebanon : Female travellers can also obtain a visa on arrival provided they have not formerly taken a job as artists ; in that latter case , they must gain approval in advance from Lebanese immigration . However , this approval is not required for : a. Wives of Lebanese citizens who have proof of the relationship ; b. Wives of Palestinian refugees in Lebanon who have proof of the relationship ; c. Wives of Syrian citizens accompanied by their husbands ; d. Travellers arriving with their parents , brothers or children provided they have proof of the relationship ; Source : <URL> UAE : A visa may not be issued to a woman under 30 years old travelling without her husband or father.Normally , there are no age-related restrictions . However , the UAE Government may sometimes impose restrictions for young lonely women . But a woman under 30 will have a visa issued without problems if she is travelling with her husband or father having the same last name . The problem can also be solved by booking and paying for a room in a 5-star hotel . The rejection risk will be much lower in that case ! Source : <URL> Bahrain : All other visitors require one of the following visas . Note that , although certain visas are theoretically obtainable on arrival in Bahrain , young single women should be sure to arrange them in advance , as they will come under scrutiny at the point of entry owing to the recent increase in the number of prostitutes attempting to enter Bahrain ! Source : <URL>
end question
start question
How to get to Patagonia from Buenos Aires ?
Well firstly most buses wo n't go directly to El Calafate . You 'll likely have to change buses , and likely will want to - it 's a long way ! However , a convenient stopping point could be Puerto Madryn ( Chubut ) . It 's a great little beach town , with the Valdez Peninsula - and I kid you not - you can sit on the hostel balcony and point at the whales as they come near the shore ! Some great seafood restaurants too . If you 're going to consider the bus , consider upgrading from Semi-cama to full-cama or cama-suite or whatever the bus company you choose calls it . Semi-cama is seats that partially recline . However for about $ 5 more from Puerto Madryn to Buenos Aires ( that 's the price difference it was for me ) you can upgrade to full-cama , which gives you a seat that folds down into a BED , as well as good food , and tv . If you 're on a strict budget do n't bother , but once I discovered that , wow , it 's so much better for the huge trips . In El Calafate , I also highly recommend the America Del Sur Hostel - it had a spectacular view over the town and Lago Argentina , and you can organise trips to the glacier from their reception ( we did a day tour to the glacier - it 's spectacular ) . Much of the flat part of Argentina is fairly boring scenery , but I liked the coastal route , and once you get into the mountains it 's great . You 'll spot guanacoes ( like llamas ) and rhea ( like ostrich ) and other animals . But I guess it depends on your preference , how you handle seriously-long bus trips , and how much time you have as well . Look into Andesmar ( my favourite ) , El Rapido ( sometimes cheaper ) , Omnilineas and Plusmar .
city bus , line - ticket 2.40 PLN ( ~ 0.56 $ ) night bus , line - ticket 2.80 PLN ( ~ 0.66 $ ) taxi - less than 50 PLN ( ~ 12 $ ) If you are taking day bus and want to get to main market square , quit bus at " Renoma " stop and follow Świdnicka street . If you want to get to train or bus station , quit bus at " Dworcowa " stop ( the last one ) .
I was not able to find train connection but on the pages of the <URL> you can find buses that go to Trieste ( local name in Slovenian : Trst ) . This is much shorter trip than taking detours and taxis as suggested by Paola . Here is a sample :
The best cheaper way I 've found to get from Fez to Algiers is flying via Barcelona . As of April 2016 , Fez - Barcelona - Fez is around $ 35-50 on Ryanair , and Barcelona - Algiers - Barcelona is around $ 110 on Vueling , for a total price of $ 150 ( round trip ) .
Please bear in mind that it 's a quite long whole day journey . There are the following option to get from Langkawi to Phuket . I believe the same should work in reverse . By ferry : <URL> ( ~ 3300-3700 THB ) Service was launched at the end of 2012 . High season route only ( operating Nov - April ) . Check in point located inside the Kuah Jetty ( located in Kuah Town ) on the Pattaya Beach . Travel Time 10 hrs . Bookings can be made in person at a booth on the pier road in Chalong or by various payment methods over the internet . It appears there is no luggage restriction as there would be when flying . The ferry stops and collects at Koh Lipe ( immigration clearance ) , Trang ( 30 minute break ) , Koh Mook , Koh Kradan , Koh Ngai , Koh Lanta , Koh Phi Phi ( 7 stops in total ) . The Malaysia Immigration &amp; Customs officials are located inside the jetty . If you do not check-in at least 60 minutes prior to departure , you will not be allowed on board of our ferry . The Thailand Immigration &amp; Customs officials are located on Koh Lipe . Note that if there are not enough passengers , they could cancel or postpone the trip . By air : Only in-direct commercial flights either by Penang ( <URL> ) , Kuala Lumpur ( Air Asia ) or Singapore ( Air Asia ) . Check <URL> for further details . Easiest is to fly Langkawi-Penang-Phuket but you have to check schedules work out . If you have extra time in Penang , check the trip to Phi Phi or Khao Lak . By <URL> . They operate daily flights between Langkawi and Phuket . They have a little box office at the airport . Flights and office hours are on Mon , Wed , Fri , Sat-Sun . But I 'm not sure how this information is reliable . Please contact them for further info . By land ( public transport ) : Langawi - Satun By <URL> to Satun ( ~ 300THB ) . It takes around 1,5 h. By <URL> ferry to Koh Lipe ( 1200-1400THB ) , from there to Satun Ferry Port - Pakbara Pier ( 600-700THB ) . There are also pre-organised " tour " tickets that would pick you from your guesthouse in Langawi and deliver straight to the centre of Hat Yai ( ~ RM 70.00 ) . In total it takes around 7 hours . Satun - Phuket or Krabi ( by bus ) As <URL> mentioned , there is a air-con bus from Satun 's bus station to Phuket . Tickets are 400 baht ( 230 baht to Krabi ) and the trip takes about 8 hours . Satun 's bus station is a few kilometres south of town , but buses can be flagged down on Burivanich Road as they leave . Read more at <URL> site . Or : Satun - Hat Yai By taxi , motorcycle taxis or small songthaews . By van ( on an hourly basis ) . By local bus . It takes around 3-4 hours in total . You can tell the bus driver where you wanted to get off in Hat Yai and he will try to get you as close as he can . It costs around 80 THB . Hat Yai - Phuket By direct bus ( around 7 hours ) . By train Hat Yai to Surat Thani ( for Ko Samui , Krabi ) . Check <URL> site for trains details . Then road to Phuket . Surat Thani is about 290km from Phuket . This road journey by bus to Phuket from Surat Thani takes about 5-6hrs . By van that goes to Phuket on an hourly basis . By air , check the <URL> site for further details . By land ( by car ) : By ferry to Satun , from there by car or taxi along the coastal ( faster ) or inner road . Along the coastal road , the next major town , after Satun is Trang ( Satun to Trang is about 110kms ) , which is about 320kms ( route distance ) from Phuket . After Trang is another town called Krabi , which is about 90kms from Phuket . There is the alternative of going to Hat Yai from Satun , about 60kms , then taking a domestic flight to Phuket , via Bangkok ; fastest available connecting flights makes this flight journey in about 3 hrs 50 mins ( via TG ) . All other flights e.g. Thai AirAsia , One To Go , Nok Air - also fly into Phuket via Bangkok . ( <URL> ) Ferry map : Note that Langawi local time is 1 hour ahead of Thai time ( GMT +8 ) . See also : <URL> by Tanya <URL> at TripAdvisor
The most straightforward way would be taking the <URL> to Victoria Station ( the journey is about 30 mins ) . The Gatwick Station is directly connected to the South Terminal . From the North Terminal it 's a bit further and you need to take the automated shuttle train . Trains leave every 15 minutes . From Victoria Station you have no less than three options : take the underground/tube/metro / whatever-you-call-it Circle Line ( High Street Kensington direction ) and get out at Paddington stop . It 's gon na take about 20 minutes . Accordingly to Gagravarr 's comment you could also go from Victoria Line to Oxford Circus , then a cross-platform change to the Bakerloo Line up to Paddington . If the metro is closed , take the bus 436 to Paddington . For all those options , make sure you use the exit at the front of the train , not the exit on the upper floor through the elevators or escalators . You could also take a taxi , if the price is n't a concern for you . There are other possibilities I left out because they wo n't be faster or more straightforward than this . Note : be aware of the fact that , <URL>
<URL> quotes 1100 pesos ( 127USD ) as the minimum , and links to the bus company website . So I guess it depends on the day of travel / purchase .
There are n't many flights to El Nido from anywhere , never mind from Cebu or Negros . There used to be a SEAir flight which I 've taken and which was a wonderful experience , taking off from the giant NAIA at Manila in a tiny plane and coming in to land just a few metres above the sea :) You can still fly there on <URL> - but I think resort customers may get priority . <URL> has info on transport to El Nido . Do n't think that the lack of flights shown is due to the page being incomplete - El Nido airfield is just that , a field , and it does n't see much traffic . To cut a long story short , you 'll need to get yourself to Manila and take a ( prebooked ) flight with ITI or any other small airline which may now fly there , or get to Puerto Princesa and go up to El Nido in one of the regular vans . <URL> may also be an option from Manila to PP , if you 're a bit of a masochist . If money is tight , fly Cebu to Puerto and then overland . If money no option , fly to Manila and then to El Nido but do check the flight to El Nido is running and has a seat beforehand ! ( EDIT : ITI website claim the airstrip has been upgraded but so far as I know none of the usual suspects fly there yet - Air Asia , PAL , Cebu Pacific , etc. )
There are no direct buses available from Toronto to Boston on any of the major carriers <URL> , <URL> . Rail is also out which will put you based on my estimation of <URL> service into about 17 hour range with transfer in New York Penn Station . So your only option left would be to do a car rental , which may be just as expensive as the flight . Plus border crossing could add enough time to your 9h 30min journey that it will put you over your time limit . It is also possible that there are small bus companies or tour companies that offer the service but I ca n't find anything online .
You might want to check out : <URL> The official site for the <URL> which has an <URL> You might also consider the <URL> If you want to buy bus tickets to other cities , consider <URL> If you are staying in Buenos Aires for a considerable time you will save money with the <URL> card . I am not sure about the requirements for foreigners though .
Without any research I would say the tube is the cheapest and fastest as well , because you do n't have to change at all to get to Knightsbridge . The <URL> says the journey is 42 minutes . The <URL> train , may take you faster into central London , but you have to change into the tube ( District or Circle lines ) at Paddington and then change again into the Picadilly line . That will take much longer . There used to be a bus called they ' AIRBUS ' going from Central London to Heathrow but it was discontinued in 2004 . Taxis and shuttle buses may be faster than the tube if there is very light traffic , which is not likely . They are surely more expensive . Taking normal buses is possible , but you have to change at least twice and the journey takes at least two hours . It is the cheapest at # 2.30 , the tube is # 5.30 ( cash prices without an Oyster card ) . On the <URL> site , use advanced options , to specify that you do n't want to use the tube and it shows you bus connections .
RATP trip planner <URL> at 10 o'clock , november 28th , 2013 . The route is : <URL> is about 1km south-east from Château de Versailles . To <URL> , <URL> :
According to <URL> ( Japanese only ) a standard letter from Osaka to Tokyo will be delivered " next day " .
Considerations : Dulles ( like BWI ) lies a considerable distance from the District ; there are no " obvious " options because each involves a tradeoff of time or money . Only Reagan National ( DCA ) is truly convenient to the city . If you have a large party or many bags , a taxi may be worth the hassle . There is no place to store bags when using public transportation , and a single ride on Metro can involve six or seven escalators -- which these days are often out of service . The Metro system is undergoing considerable construction and maintenance on evenings and weekends ; at other times it can be quite crowded . This has negatively impacted its speed and reliability . Silver Line Express bus Washington Flyer bus While the <URL> Metrorail does n't reach Dulles yet , the opening of its first phase to Wiehle-Reston East is already making your transit choices more interesting . The Washington Flyer shuttle to West Falls Church has been discontinued . The <URL> is its replacement , and is both cheaper and more frequent than its predecessor ( but see below ) . It will depart every 15-20 minutes from Wiehle-Reston East between 6am and 10:40 pm daily . From Dulles , Silver Line Express tickets will be sold on the arrivals level of the Main Terminal , and the bus will depart from Door # 4 ( where the Washington Flyer used to depart ) . The fare is a flat $ 5 each way . Note that this bus is operated by the airports authority , not by Metro , and so the WMATA SmarTrip card is not accepted for payment . The coaches are dedicated to the purpose , and include a luggage compartment below the cabin . Free Wi-Fi is promised on-board . The more frequent and faster connection to rail is made possible because of the shorter distance the bus travels , but of course this means a slightly higher Metro fare to cover that distance . Operationally , it will also take some months for Metro to get the kinks out of the Silver Line with regards to timing , as was the case for the other major expansions . Metrobus 5A A second , potentially cheaper option is to take the <URL> to Rosslyn ( ~ 45 minutes ) , then transfer to the Blue/Orange/Silver Line and ride out to Eastern Market ( 25 minutes ) . You can also stay on the 5A all the way to the end of the line at L'Enfant Plaza and board the Blue/Orange/Silver from there . This will take longer and mean more time on the bus , but if you arrive during the morning rush hour , it may be more civilized to keep your seat on the bus than to contend with the crowds at Rosslyn . The 5A is an express service that makes only one or two stops before Rosslyn ; however , it is an ordinary public bus , so at best it will have overhead racks for small bags , and it is often crowded . On the other hand , the fare is only $ 7 , whether using cash or a SmarTrip card . Bring exact change if paying with the former . Taxis You can pre-negotiate a pickup from a taxi company ( other than the airport taxi ) . The Washington Flyer Taxi has a monopoly on service to the airport and its <URL> are fixed ( about $ 75 to Eastern Market plus surcharges and tips ) . You can privately arrange for a different taxi or car service to pick you up , however , just as you might ask a friend or family member to pick you up . You can avoid the hassle of the taxi stand and maybe a few dollars as well , and if you come to Washington frequently , may be worth the investment of getting to know and keep a favorite driver . Uber / Lyft The legal status of Uber and Lyft in Virginia , as in many jurisdictions , is in flux . They can drop off passengers in Virginia , but have not been permitted to pick them up there in the past , including the airports . At this writing they are <URL> . Prices range from $ 50 for UberX to $ 105 for an UberSUV . Shared Van Another option is to take one of the shared van services . SuperShuttle 's <URL> is operated by the same company which runs the taxi fleet . <URL> began operating around 2012 . The vans make the most sense if you are traveling alone to a destination not well-served by Metro , but the rides can take a very , very long time if you are one of the later passengers to be dropped off . From Dulles , I generally only recommend this service for people traveling to the Virginia suburbs . One-way car rental Yet another option that makes sense for some is to <URL> from Dulles and return it to Reagan National the same day . Some rental agencies may waive the one-way fee on certain rate codes . If you have a good-sized party or many bags , this is sometimes an option . Of course , at least one person will need to take Metro or a taxi from Reagan National back to where you are in Eastern Market , and driving this route can be dicey during rush hours or if you are unfamiliar with the area .
Cagnes-sur-Mer has a railway station , with frequent trains from Nice ( generally every half hour ) . Trains take about 15 minutes , and you just buy the ticket at the station on departure . Depending on where you are in Nice <URL> might be useful too . The local bus company has its website here : <URL> ( Press the British flag for English ) . Generally speaking : Getting there by public transport is easy and cheap . Doing it as a day trip perfectly feasible . Haut de Cagnes is about 1km from the train station . If you really do n't want to climb , you can walk to the town center ( square Bourdet , also a stop on bus 94 ) and take <URL> uphill .
I see five ways to salvage the situation . Spend the night in Milan and leave early on the following day . You will then be in Antibes around noon . Take the train to Ventimiglia and spend the night there . On the following day , continue to Antibes . You will then be able to arrive in Antibes in the early morning Rent a car in Milan , drive to Antibes and drop it there . It 's a 4-5 hours drive . You will then arrive on Antibes in the late evening . Take the evening train to Ventimiglia and continue to Antibes by taxi . You can expect this to cost around 200 EUR . Take the evening train to Ventimiglia and then a train to Nice . The last trains leave at 21h49 and 22h40 from Ventimiglia . Nice you can take a taxi . Cost ~ 70 EUR
There are boats between Battambang and Siem Reap , they leave in the morning ( around 7am ) and take most of the day . You spend several hours on a small river where you can see tons of animals and birds , later you cross Tonle Sap Lake , the last part to Siem Riep is by jeep . It takes a while but its a great ride . The fruit shakes in Battambang are spectacular , do n't miss them . Edit : I just noticed , that you want to go from Siem Riep to Battambang , not the other way . They boats run in both directions , so the information above still applies .
EDITED : I ca n't delete this one as it has been accepted but a newer answer has more details , be sure to check it out ! I saw a journey from Seattle to Pusan in 19 days and from Vancouver to Pusan in 14 days so that should give you a ballpark figure for the time it takes to cross the Pacific ocean nowadays ( albeit in the other direction ) . Here are a few specific trips in the direction you asked about : <URL> in 17 days . <URL> through the Panama canal in 26 days . Both of these start from China because all the ships I could find either go to China before returning to the US and/or do not allow passengers to embark ( but only to disembark ) in South Korea . I do n't know whether that 's a general rule , you would have to contact an agent specialising in this to find out .
So , you 've actually ended up asking multiple questions in one which strictly ( [ faq ] ) you should n't do , but I 'll try to address it as one . In relation to getting there in time for your flight , it depends on the airline you take , what they say , and also how much lee-way you want to give your arrival at the airport . However , yes , you can take ground transportation , and depending on what your plans are it 'd be a consideration . You can get buses directly from Flores to Belize , however , if you 're in Tikal , there 's this from <URL> : Don David 's is fantastic - we were there in January . They will be able to arrange all your transport if you need them to . I have rarely met such helpful people ! The buses to Belize run from Flores / Santa Elena but will pick up at El Cruce which is the main road junction about 20 minutes walk from Don Davids . Alternatively , Don Davids will arrange a ride into Flores . The buses run direct to Belize City with just a stop at the border . We used the service in the other direction with a direct bus from Chetumal to Flores via Belize City . The only advantage in going to Flores is that there is more choice of agents but they are all selling tickets on the same bus services . So you could ask your Tikal Inn if they can do the same , if not , wander over to Casa Don David 's and ask them for help . What about driving ? Some kind person has detailed <URL> ( well they went the other way , but just reverse it ) . <URL> ( Tikal Park ) lists a few flight connections that may be of use to you . And someone else <URL> : Finally , there is <URL> , but be aware the discussion is from a few years back , and may not be up to date . Conclusion - if you 're up for an adventure , I 'd go for the bus ride . Driving sounds like too much hassle . But if you have the time , public transport is always a fun time , or a good story . Much more interesting than just another flight .
Travel is certainly possible . <URL> has 120,000 inhabitants and <URL> on the Argentinian side has 60000 inhabitants ( with <URL> ) . Advisable depends of course on what you want to do . Wikipedia has useful information on climate : <URL> , at 41 ° 28 'S , has 6.0 -- 12.7 ° C in May : Much further south , <URL> ( 53 ° 10 ' S ) has 1.0 -- 6.4 ° C in May : Cold is relative , but if you take appropriate clothing you should have no problems travelling in May . Disclaimer : I have never been to Patagonia , all information is from the world wide web .
end question
start question
Is there a official classification for turbulence ?
The FAA has <URL> which cite a " U.S. Standard Turbulence Criteria Table " ( which I could not find online ) : Light . Loose objects in aircraft remain at rest . Moderate . Unsecured objects are dislodged . Occupants feel definite strains against seat belts and shoulder straps . Severe . Occupants thrown violently against seat belts . Momentary loss of aircraft control . Unsecured objects tossed about . Extreme . Aircraft is tossed violently about , impossible to control . May cause structural damage . But note that these are somewhat subjective reports by pilots of what happened in their plane whereas a forecast says what could happen . Turbulences are by nature chaotic and unpredictable . Even in an area where heavy turbulences exist , any specific plane may get lucky and avoid them , or unlucky and hit the worst spots . Additionally , the size of the plane makes a big differences . A turbulence that throws a little Cessna completely out of control may be barely felt at all in a large airliner .
According to <URL> ( Twin City 's Slovakian partner ) : Selling points : the tickets in the FLORA TOUR Headquarters on Kúpeľná Street ( Bratislava ) , in the FLORA TOUR Office in the Passenger Port ( Bratislava ) or in FLORA TOUR Office at Schwedenplatz ( Vienna ) . In the Kiosk under Nový most ( Bratislava ) it is possible to make a reservation . The exact location of these selling points is available <URL> .
Here is a Canadian government website that will <URL> , whether briefly in transit or for a more extended visit . You can enter your country of citizenship and all other information about your trip , and it will tell you if you need a visa , and what visa you need . Some general rules : If you do n't need a visa to visit Canada , you do n't need a visa to transit Canada . This includes citizens of the US , UK , EU and many others . You can not stay more than 48 hours with a transit visa The Transit Without Visa program ( TWOV ) and the China Transit Program ( CTP ) allow certain foreign nationals to transit through Canada on their way to and from the United States without a Canadian transit visa , if they meet certain requirements . You can apply for a transit visa by filling out the application for a Temporary Resident Visa and selecting transit visa from the list of options on the form . You may not need a transit visa if you are travelling to or from the United States . If you are in doubt about your eligibility you can contact your nearest Canadian embassy by email or otherwise .
<URL> gives code-share information for any flight . Looking up a flight number on that site gives a listing of its codesahres , among other flight information . For example , if you enter <URL> into the Flight Status box , click Search , and then scroll down to the " AC 8975 Flight Information " box , you see an entry saying : Unfortunately , the site only allows flights to be searched up to a few days ahead . Thus you wo n't be able to look for flights on the day you want to travel ( unless you 're planning a last-minute trip ) . But looking for the same flight number within a range of days ( yesterday , today , tomorrow , etc. , preferably including the day of the week on which you want to travel ) should give a sense of which airlines are likely to code-share the flight . Of course , this wo n't help if the flight you 're looking for is a new service that has n't yet begun , or if a particular airline pair is set to begin a code-share arrangement in the future . Notice that even if the same flight runs every day of the week , it does not necessarily have the same code-share partners every day . For example , looking up <URL> , we see that it lists only LH , not LX or CA . ( I imagine that a marketing airline might choose to share another carrier 's flight only if they have a flight of their own connecting to it on that particular day . ) As a slight alternative , you can choose " By Route " in the Flight Status search box and then enter departure and arrival airports to get a list of flights operating that route , including code-shares . Again , it does n't let you view flights more than ~ 3 days ahead , but you can see what airlines run that route by checking a few days around the current date .
Here is the schedule for the rest of 2012 , which I got from <URL> . It was apparently compiled from <URL> . According to the page you linked to , " Upon check-in at a Walt Disney World Resort hotel , Guests will receive a schedule detailing when each park offers Extra Magic Hours " so if any last minute changes have occurred , that will be the most accurate . But the information below should allow you to start planning .
This past summer I followed quite a bit of it through Central Asia , in areas which I 'd consider to be moderately difficult to navigate - like Uzbekistan . <URL> shows more information on the Silk Road , and it 's worth noting there are several branches of it , depending on whether you go through the deserts , or through Afghanistan . Individual links on that page , will give you details about how to reach each city . For me , Uzbekistan is a hidden jewel - most people ca n't even name it as a country , and yet <URL> , <URL> and <URL> are among some of the most impressive historic cities I 've ever seen . And yes , sadly it 's not as accurate as you 'd like , but I saw this map just inside Khiva 's West Gate : The problem with what you 're trying to find is that there is no ONE Silk Road . Even when travelling between two cities , people might detour when a river is in flood , or to feed animals , or to avoid a known criminal hotspot . So there are in some ways thousands of potential deviations - only the rough directional heading between cities will be shown on most maps . Indeed , according to Wikipedia , there were even <URL> ! You may also consider <URL> commonly accepted as being along the various Silk road routes . Map included on page .
In short , no , there 's no Japanese region known for spicy food in the same way that ( say ) Sichuan or Thailand is . Japanese does n't really even have a word for " spicy " , 辛い karai originally meant " salty " and is still used in that sense as well . However , there are a couple of spicy local specialities , mostly in the south of the country where they had the most Chinese/Korean influence . ( courtesy Babi Hijau , <URL> ) Karashi renkon ( 辛子蓮根 ) means " spicy lotus root " , and it consists basically of lotus root stuffed with mustard -- and in case you have n't tried Japanese mustard yet , it 's usually blow-your-socks-off hot . This is a speciality of Kumamoto prefecture in Kyushu . ( courtesy Kanko , <URL> ) Karashi mentaiko ( 辛子明太子 ) is spicy cod roe , this time with actual chilli . It 's a Korean import that first landed in Japan at Shimonoseki at the western tip of Honshu , but is now well known all around northern Kyushu ( esp . Fukuoka ) as well . It 's a rather expensive delicacy , and mentaiko spaghetti is a very popular ( but only mildly spicy ) way to eat it , but connoisseurs eat it raw with rice . ( courtesy me ) Speaking of Kyushu , while classical tonkotsu ramen ( 豚骨ラーメン , noodles in pork bone broth ) is not spicy , it 's very common to add chili to it these days . Fukuoka is also the home of tonkotsu , with <URL> ( 一蘭 ) and <URL> ( 一風堂 ) battling it out for supremacy -- Ippudo 's akamaru , in particular , is both famous and spicy . That said , <URL> : diners eat in curtained-off single booths ! And you can specify the size of your chili dab , the default is above . And that 's about it , really , for main dishes or even main ingredients . In addition to wasabi and shichimi , Japanese cuisine uses some " spicy " spices : The karashi mustard of karashi-renkon is also used to spice up some otherwise bland dishes like oden stew . <URL> is a paste of yuzu ( a citrus fruit ) peel with green chillies , most commonly eaten with nabe hotpot stews and yakitori grilled chicken . Originally from Yufuin in Kyushu , but was briefly super-popular nationwide a few years back . <URL> ( a mild relative of Sichuan pepper ) is used in a few dishes like grilled eel ( unagi ) . There 's also a whole slew of spicy nibbles designed to accompany alcohol , eg . takowasabi ( minced octopus with wasabi ) and <URL> ( fermented squid guts , absolutely horrible stuff ) , but none of these are particularly regional as far as I 'm aware . Last but not least , do n't forget more recent culinary imports : Japan 's larger cities usually have Korean enclaves ( eg . Tsuruhashi in Osaka and Okubo in Tokyo ) which will give you all the chilli you can handle and then some , and many Korean foods like yakiniku BBQ have become an essential part of Japanese cuisine . Curry rice is apparently the single most common dish prepared in Japanese homes , although this came to Japan via England and even the notionally " spicy " ( 辛口 karakuchi ) varieties will barely register on the palate of a chilli fiend . Last and probably least , <URL> ( 中華料理 chūka ryōri ) is ubiquitous , even the smallest town will have one or two restaurants serving it . Unfortunately most all spiciness has usually been blanched out , with originally murderously hot Sichuan dishes like mapo doufu turned into vaguely ketchup-y concoctions , but there are usually a few token nominally spicy dishes like ebi chiri ( エビチリ ) , shrimp in chilli sauce , on the menu .
Legally speaking , there 's only one legal ID for foreigners in Japan : your passport . ( Unless you 're a long-term resident of Japan , in which case your <URL> is also OK , but these are n't available to tourists . ) That said , ID checks are pretty rare and in practice you can likely get away with a laminated photocopy of your passport 's photo page . Do bear in mind that , if the police decide this is n't good enough , they can and will detain you until somebody else can go get your actual passport and bring it up the police station , which can be quite a hassle to arrange . For non-police ID use : Nightclubs will insist on your passport , full stop . ( Again , photocopy may or may not work . ) Hotels will insist on your passport . However , this can be trivially worked around by claiming to live in Japan and registering with a Japanese address , in which case <URL> . ( No , that does n't make any sense to me either , and not all hotels are aware of this . ) In most convenience stores , you need to self-certify that you 've of age to buy alcohol , but there 's essentially no enforcement beyond this and the staff generally are not paid enough to care . Same goes for most restaurants etc. . Alcohol and tobacco vending machines may require local " alcohol cards " ( 酒カード ) or the nationwide <URL> respectively .
Maybe too late for you ... I found three cars in Corsica on that site : <URL> .
The ADAC ( Allgemeiner Deutscher Automobil Club ) , the german automobile club , features a series of guides , that covers thousands of campgrounds in whole Europe . Each campground is shortly described , rated , and the facilities as well as the prices are listed . <URL> is an example of the actual guide that covers Germany and Scandinavia . I used these books a lot in Scandinava , Southern Europe and Eastern Europe and it was really useful . <URL> , but is not as detailed as the books .
There are probably well over a hundred real castles converted to hotels in Europe - maintaining a castle is expensive , so most people who own one need to monetize it somehow . Here 's a <URL> that lists 40 castles and palaces converted into hotels in Germany alone ... The question is : how historical do you want it to be to count as " real " ? Older than 200 years ? Older than 500 ? A pretty solid candidate would be <URL> in Bavaria : first documented in 1280 , never substantially destroyed and rebuilt ( which is the case for a great many old castles ) . However , the historical past is not all that exciting ( the castle seems to have changed hands a lot , but was never involved in big historical events ) .
<URL> : ( Updated : 2015/03/18 ) Visas are not required of aliens , who hold final destination tickets and have booked seats on international airliners flying directly through China , and will stay in a transit city for less than 24 hours without leaving the airport . No visa is required for ordinary passport holders from Singapore , Brunei and Japan to visit China for up to 15 days for business , sightseeing , visiting relatives and friends or transit . As of March 2015 , citizens of 51 countries may stay visa free in Shanghai , Beijing , Guangzhou , Chengdu , Chongqing , Dalian , Shengyang and Harbin for 72 hours while transiting to their destinations .
Here is the list for airports equipped with Automated Passport Control ( APC ) to serve ESTA holders in addition to US and Canadian passports holders , from the <URL> as of now : Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport ( ATL ) Austin-Bergstrom International Airport ( AUS ) Boston Logan International Airport ( BOS ) Charlotte Douglas International Airport ( CLT ) Chicago Midway International Airport ( MDW ) Chicago O’Hare International Airport ( ORD ) Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport ( DFW ) Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport ( DTW ) Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport ( FLL ) Houston George Bush Intercontinental Airport ( IAH ) Los Angeles International Airport ( LAX ) Miami International Airport ( MIA ) Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport ( MSP ) Montréal - Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport ( YUL ) New York - John F. Kennedy International Airport ( JFK ) Newark Liberty International Airport ( EWR ) Orlando International Airport ( MCO ) Philadelphia International Airport ( PHL ) Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport ( PHX ) Seattle Sea-Tac Airport ( SEA ) Tampa International Airport ( TPA ) Toronto Pearson International Airport ( YYZ ) Vancouver International Airport ( YVR )
I could not find a centralised list of all community shelters in Quebec . However , I could list some organisations that manage shelters and list some of those along <URL> , from Mont-Tremblant to the reserve Mastigouche . I list them in the order West-East . For each shelter , I try to list the following : | [ name ] | [ capacity ] | [ price per night per person ] | [ location ( optional ) ] | [ access from previous shelter ] | [ opening period ] | Sepaq The <URL> manages many provincial parks ( called national parks ) and the Trans-Canada trail crosses them in multiple places . The Sepaq operates shelters all over Quebec in its parks of Fjord-du-Saguenay , Gaspésie , Grands-Jardins , Mont-Mégantic , Mont-Orford , Mont-Tremblant , Monts-Valin and Yamaska . in Mont-Tremblant national park | Lac-Ernie | 18 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Lac Monroe Park center : ~ 13km | open May-March | | Lac-des-Sables | 18 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Lac-Ernie : 9.5 km | open May-March | | Le Lariou | 2 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Lac-des-Sables : ~ 10km | open May-March | | Le Geai-Bleu | 4 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Le Lariou : ~ 5km , from La Pimbinia Park - entrance : few km | open May-March | This is an alternative way to link Mont-Tremblant and St-Donnat , the Trans-Canada trail follows the Intercentre trail ( see below ) . Intercentre The <URL> links Lac-Laurier and St-Donat , and is a part of the trans-Canada trail . | <URL> | 8 people | 22 $ | N 46 ° 14 ' 10 " , W 74 ° 23 ' 55.2 " | <URL> ( north of Lac-Supérieur ) | open year-round | | <URL> | 8 people | 22 $ | N 46 ° 15 ' 57.2 " , W 74 ° 21 ' 14.8 " | <URL> - open year-round | From the chemin Regimbald , it is possible to reach highway 329 and from there follow the chemin Wall to continue on the Mont-Ouareau trail . FQMarche ( Quebec Federation of Hiking ) The <URL> manages two shelters , both along the Trans-Canada trail , one in the area of Mont-Ouareau : | <URL> | 12 people | 10-15 $ | near Lac Lemieux | <URL> | open year-round | The Trans-Canada trail is discontinued along the highway 125 , it starts farther on the Massif trail in the regional park of the Ouareau forest . Parc Régional de la Forêt Ouareau I could not find a mention of when the shelters are open , but it seems they are operated in summer and winter . They all appear on the <URL> | Pelletier | 8 people | 30,25 $ | near Lac à Pelletier - ~ 3km from hwy 125 , near Notre-Dame de la Merci | | Prud ' homme | 8 people | 30,25 $ | 2.5 km from Pelletier shelter | | La Loutre | 2 people | 30,25 $ | 2km from trans-Canada trail | | Corbeau | 6 people | 30,25 $ | 2km from trans-Canada trail | | Toussaint | 8 people | 30,25 $ | 16.5 km from Prud ' homme shelter | | des Capucines | 6 people | 30,25 $ | 4km from Toussaint shelter | Then the trail continues without any shelter ( but some lean-to ) on the <URL> and the Swaggin trails . Parcs Régionaux Matawinie - Sentier National I could not find a mention of when the shelters are open , but it seems they are operated in summer and winter . | Swaggin | 20 people | 25 $ | the previous shelter on the trans-Canada trail is on the Massif trail , 38km away ( refuge des Capucines ) | | Lavigne | 8 people | 25 $ | <URL> | | Lac Boule | 8 people | 25 $ | near Lac de la Boule - <URL> | | Bazinet | 8 people | 25 $ | near Lac des Iles - <URL> | The trans-Canada trail continues on several successive trails ( Ours , Matawinie , Nymphes , Mistikush ) without any appareent shelter on the way ( see the <URL> ) . FQMarche ( Quebec Federation of Hiking ) A second shelter managed by the FQMarche is at the end of Mistikush trail : | <URL> | 6 people | 10-15 $ | near Morin Creek , <URL> , <URL> | open in summer ( May 17 to Sep 1st ) | Then the Trans-Canada trail arrives in the <URL> , with no shelter open to single-person reservation . This list of shelters along the Trans-Canada trail in Quebec is definitely incomplete as the trail is particularly long ( 1100km ) but I hope to enrich it with time . SIA-IAT ( International Appalachian Trail ) The <URL> group manages a set of shelters , not along the trans-Canada trail but still worth noting . They publish <URL> . I do not list them as they are not along the Trans-Canada trail but along the Quebec section of the International Appalachian Trail .
I visited the NEXUS office at the YVR airport and was told : There is no penalty Do not use your card for now but it indeed did n't expire . Your passport is not enough , you need your citizenship certificate as well . ( Doh ! ) You do not need to schedule an appointment for this just go to the enrollment centre .
There are three common situations : The country you are departing has outbound passport control Once you cross the line you have officially left the country as far as immigration is concerned . You must pass through immigration to exit this area back to the public spaces . In some cases , like Vancouver , it 's not really " passport control " . It 's just a guy who checks your boarding pass and tells you that you can not return this way ( he has no authority other than calling someone else who does ) . But it 's effectively the same thing . Canadian immigration gets passenger lists from the airlines and does n't bother you on the way out . The country you are traveling to has remote pre-clearance . The USA does this from Canada and Shannon , Ireland . Once you cross the line you have officially departed the current country and entered the destination country as far as immigration is concerned . You may travel directly to your destination , usually without any further interactions of any kind with immigration or airport security ( rather dependent on the gate arrangements at transfer airports ) . The country you are departing does not have outbound passport control Or at least not at this departure point . You mix with other international and domestic travelers and board your departing vessel . You are considered to have departed when you pass the boarding gate . Note the repeated use of " as far as immigration is concerned " and " considered to have departed " . The departure lounge is not an embassy , it is still the sovereign soil of the departure country and if the local police want you for anything they will just walk in and grab you . If the American pre-clearance staff object they will be bluntly told to shut up and get out of the way or get arrested themselves for obstruction ( pre-clearance staff are not diplomats ) . In all the above cases , once you are " considered to have departed " you have met any immigration limits you may have . If you do this one minute before midnight on the day your visa expires you will not be considered to be overstaying . If your flight/ship/bus / train is cancelled you will usually get a short-term readmission as you did " leave " and the fact that you are still here is beyond your control . if immigration really wants you to leave you might even get a free hotel room for the night . Flights in the Schengen zone are considered to be domestic flights - there is no passport control . Tax easements ( duty-free shopping ) have more to do with your intentions than position within the airport . I 've been to airports where the duty-free shops are in the public spaces . You show your boarding pass , buy what you want , and it 's delivered to your departure gate ( which also nicely bypasses security ) . If you do n't have a suitable boarding pass you simply pay the tax-in price . If the airport construction allows it ( Heathrow for example ) transiting passengers remain in the international area and have no interactions with immigration . This is purely a convenience and cost-saving measure . If you are wanted by the police for something serious they can and will arrest you in the international concourse . If , in this example , the UK does not wish to admit you for any reason you are fine here as you do not officially enter the UK . Passengers transiting between airports ( Heathrow - > Gatwick happens a lot ) DO require admission to the UK , which is occasionally denied . This means you go back to your departure point rather than your destination . Legal rights of the departure country extend up to the time the airplane 's wheels leave the ground ( not sure about ships ) . If you punch out the cabin crew while taxiing to the runway , the local police will be called . Do it after takeoff and it 's really the pilot 's choice to return and land or fly to the destination - legal authority passes to the air carrier 's country of registration after takeoff but the pilot can choose to accept the local authorities rather than carry a problem for 10 hours . If the departure country 's authorities decide they want to invite you in for tea and biscuits after takeoff , they can request that the airplane return or land at another airport in the same country . If the pilot refuses they either let you go or shoot the plane down .
The FAA has <URL> which cite a " U.S. Standard Turbulence Criteria Table " ( which I could not find online ) : Light . Loose objects in aircraft remain at rest . Moderate . Unsecured objects are dislodged . Occupants feel definite strains against seat belts and shoulder straps . Severe . Occupants thrown violently against seat belts . Momentary loss of aircraft control . Unsecured objects tossed about . Extreme . Aircraft is tossed violently about , impossible to control . May cause structural damage . But note that these are somewhat subjective reports by pilots of what happened in their plane whereas a forecast says what could happen . Turbulences are by nature chaotic and unpredictable . Even in an area where heavy turbulences exist , any specific plane may get lucky and avoid them , or unlucky and hit the worst spots . Additionally , the size of the plane makes a big differences . A turbulence that throws a little Cessna completely out of control may be barely felt at all in a large airliner .
You can find the site at <URL> but AFAIK it 's Persian only . I am slightly curious as to what you searched for on Google , really :
I have never used their service , or that of a competitor , but <URL> ( Portable On-Demand Storage ) might do what you want . The big questions will be cost , and timeliness . I also do n't know if they have service outside of the U.S. , but there may be similar services elsewhere in the world . The service , as I understand it , essentially delivers a large " pod " ( metal crate ) to your drive way , where you can load whatever you want . It is then stored in one of their storage facilities , and can later be dropped of again -- at whichever address you specify , including one across the country . As the service is intended for long-term storage , and cross-country moves , it may prove to be un-economical as a sort of " on-demand luggage " service , but it might be worth investigating .
Most travel insurance policies will cover delayed or missed flights , but you need to read the fine print very carefully to find out exactly what they will cover and in what situations , as it varies dramatically between policies . Most policies will only cover instances where the missed flight was beyond your control . eg , they may cover your train breaking down and you being stuck on it for several hours , but not you simply sleeping in . In most cases the burden of proof is going to be on you to prove that missing the flight was n't your fault , so even if being stuck in the worst traffic jam for 10 years is a valid reason - how do you prove it ? The payout/assistance offered in such situations also varies . Some policies will only cover the price you originally paid for the ticket , which will probably be far less than it will cost for a last-minute replacement . Other policies will cover the cost of the new ticket , as well as hotels for the delay , etc. .
end question
start question
How long would it take to hike from Hamar to Lillehammer ?
First of all , both Hamar and Lillehammer are located at the Lake Mjøsa , so there will be no net elevation change along the way . The pilgrim 's path does not follow the shore though , so there are some light to moderate inclines along the way , but always accompanied with following descents . Except from telling you that , noone here will be able to tell you which pace you prefer or can manage . Even being less than in ' decent shape ' , hiking 25-30km a day should IMHO be easily feasible in such light terrain . The <URL> of the pilgrim 's road suggests that you use four days ,
The very next day , if you can convince the border agent that you 're using your visa for the appropriate means , and are n't trying to ' live ' there instead . They 're going to wonder what took 141 days and now needs more . If you 're backpacking across the country , say , they can see evidence of your travels and you can show that say , you were now heading up to Churchill to see the polar bears and therefore need another few weeks . They 're going to want to know how long you 're going for this time , and what you 're planning on doing . It gets a bit more unclear if you 're a digital nomad like yourself . Technically you 're working for a US company from Canada . Some countries and guards can be very iffy on that . Essentially , they may see it as you living and earning money there , benefiting from their roads and so on , without paying and Canadian taxes . And that 's not approved . However , if you provide them with your business address and show that you 're travelling as a tourist as well , it might be deemed more acceptable . Short version : You 're going to have to convince the border agent that you 're not living there tax-free , but are a bona-fide visitor , there for normal visitor reasons , who plans on returning to the US where you live . EDIT : Indeed , from the <URL> : To visit Canada , you must : have a valid travel document , such as a passport , be in good health , convince an immigration officer that you have ties -- such as a job , home , financial assets or family -- that will take you back to your home country , convince an immigration officer that you will leave Canada at the end of your visit , and have enough money for your stay . ( The amount of money you will need can vary . it depends on things like how long you will stay , and whether you will stay in a hotel or with friends or relatives . ) I 've highlighted the key bit . If it 's apparent or seems that your plan is just to keep re-entering Canada , they may well disqualify you . Indeed , when I lived in Vancouver I had a friend from Utah who went to renew her visa , and was seen to be ' living ' there ( She was actually trying to move to Vancouver long term , just did things in the wrong order ) and was given 2 days to pack up and leave . So basically , that 's what your entry request will be tested against .
source : <URL> Your passport must be valid for at least 6 months beyond the date of return from your trip . It can not be damaged and any alterations/extensions must be endorsed by the Home Office or relevant Embassy .
I think BA are pretty good with baggage - I fly with them quite a bit and I 've certainly never had any problems . ( They did have some major problems the first few weeks after T5 opened , but those are all now sorted and luggage generally works very well at T5 now ) There can always be problems though , so there are two things you should always do when travelling with checked luggage . The first is have travel insurance with decent delayed/lost baggage cover . This will mean that if your luggage is delayed , you 'll have some cash with which to buy necessities . ( The airline may cover some things , but usually not as much as a decent travel insurance policy will ) . Secondly , always take one set of underwear and a clean top in your carry-on . That way , if your luggage is delayed , you 've still got some clean clothes to wear the next day while you wait / go buy some other clothes . If there are two of you travelling , do n't pack exclusively " his " and " hers " ( or hers 'n hers ) suitcases . Put a couple of changes of clothes into the other person 's suitcase . That way , if one of you finds your bag delayed for 24 hours , you 've got some stuff . Otherwise , try to avoid very tight connections . Tight connections are often the source of delayed bags , because you can often run from one gate to another much faster than your bags can get offloaded , sorted and re-loaded . Things around the MCT are problematic in the events of delays , so be extra careful at busy / weather prone / delay prone airports . Finally , make sure your bags are in good condition , and do n't have things that could get eaten by machinery ( wrap them if they do ) . A suitcase with bits hanging off that 's on its last legs is much less likely to survive a problem than one in good condition ! For your case , book your flights as a single ticket ( it 's all oneworld so that should n't be an issue ) , that way if one flight is delayed there wo n't be any issues with getting put for free onto a later flight + receiving support ( food , overnight accommodation etc ) if needed . Most BA flights use T5 at Heathrow , CX use T3 , so both you and your bags need to change terminals . Factor that in to how long you have between the two ! Oh , and there are quite a few oneworld flights to Hong Kong every day from Heathrow ( 5 ? 6 ? ) , so if your bags do miss your flight for some reason , it should n't be too long to wait until the next one for them to come on !
There are a few companies in Tarapoto that go to Chachapoyas , we asked around and we found Movil tours ( big buses ) and Turismo Selva ( combi ) that went direct to Chachapoyas and Excluciva ( big buses ) and Virgen tours ( combi ) that went to Pedro Ruiz . Pedro Ruiz is a common stop along that route , on the way back we stopped there and flagged a combi type van that took us back to Tarapoto . There 's very frequent vans on that route so it 's always possible to just signal to one and if there 's space they 'll take you . In the end we went with Turismo Selva because they had the earliest departures ( 7am ) and it cost 35 soles .
Although they say <URL> , when I did it , it only took a couple of weeks after submitting my application . At that point I had to make an appointment to go down to the airport for an interview . I was able to find an appointment date easily . The process at the airport took about half an hour and then I was good to go right away .
Mark 's answer is kinda perfect , but I will give some extra information as a cabin crew member : The bad : Lavatory noise ( flushing noise is so loud due to air suction ) Babies noise , the bulkhead behind almost all lavatories are where baby basinets installed . People with babies usually reserve these seats . Crowd ( queues ) You ca n't recline the seat enough ( if seated in front of lavatory bulkhead ) Not dark enough at night ( because of lavatory light when door is open , lot 's of lit signs next to lavatories ) Usually lavatories are next to cabin crew stations , depending on the airplane type there could be a lot of chimes and calls to the cabin crew station , which means extra noise . Boeing planes in particular are a bit noisy when it comes to chimes . Bad smell . The good : Lavatory is one step away . As I said before , usually there are cabin crew stations next to lavatories . The good side is , the closer you are to cabin crew the better you get served especially in long flights . If you do not sleep in airplanes , next to lavatories ( and galleys ) are the social places in airplanes , you can talk to people who are waiting for their turns or just stretching their legs there . More leg space as you already mentioned ( row behind , this is by design actually to give more space to baby basinets ) At the end , it depends on your style onboard airplanes : If you plan to sleep during the long haul : Take a window seat , no one will bother you to get out or in and you can rest your head on the side . If you plan to stay awake to watch a movie or read a book : Take an aisle seat away from toilets . If you plane to be awake for other reasons : Get a seat next to lavatories .
Rental prices are not designed for periods of more than a few days . It might be possible to negotiate a long-term price at a flexible rental business . It 's definitely possible to get a decent used bike for 50-100 EUR . There 's a risk that it could be a stolen one , but almost none of running into problems , even if it is . I 'm pretty sure that shipping a bike from Germany to Egypt and back will cost more than 100 EUR .
Yes , it is acceptable . However , it is etiquette that if the baby does start to make noise that you take it to the " deck " area beyond the doors ( where the bathrooms , telephone , vending machines , etc. ) are . This is the same protocol if you have to make or receive a telephone call , want to have a loud conversation with your seatmate , or do anything that might disturb other passengers . I should note that this has nothing to do with the green car -- the main cars nominally operate under these protocols , it 's just that the other passengers ( and conductors ) are less likely to enforce them .
You can take your bike along in most trains , but not in the ICE . It 's probably best to check when you look up the connection online ( you can even use it as a search criterium ) . In some local trains you do n't need an extra ticket . It seems to <URL> , including the time of day . In <URL> , you always need a ticket for your bike as well as a reservation . Yes , <URL> . It costs 25.50 EUR per bike , and an additional 8 EUR for international delivery ( only to Luxembourg , Austria and Switzerland ) . Note that the bike has to be wrapped ( you can order a wrapping for 5.90 EUR ) .
According to the official <URL> there are two places you can use as your source . Rejkjavik and Copenhagen . There are 2 airlines servicing the island : <URL> and <URL> . The price Air Iceland is currently quoting for destinations in Greenland is 161 EUR ( Kulusuk ) and 193 EUR ( Nuuk ) . I guess the further north the more expensive it gets since you will probably need a helicopter ride . Could not find the ferries but there are cruises from Europe that will take you around Northern sites including Greenland . There are multiple sites referring to that but they may be exactly the same cruise : <URL> <URL>
RATP trip planner <URL> at 10 o'clock , november 28th , 2013 . The route is : <URL> is about 1km south-east from Château de Versailles . To <URL> , <URL> :
There 's a railway station at Old Trafford itself , handily called " Manchester United Foodball Ground " . Looking at the <URL> it looks to be right by the stadium , and <URL> concurs . The <URL> suggests that trains to Old Trafford depart from Manchester Picaddilly , so that should make things easy . However , <URL> suggests trains only stop there on match days , so it depends if you 're going to see the stadium , or a match there . There are <URL> Metrolink tram stations a short walk away , Exchange Quay and Old Trafford . If it is n't a match day , your best bet is probably to change onto the tram to get there .
Promoting comments to an answer ... Looking at the ever useful <URL> , there are three typical routes . One is via Turkey , Syria and Jordan . My understanding of the current situation in Syria is that this one is out . Next up is a direct ferry from Greece , but that is n't running currently . Finally there are suggestions that you can get a ferry from Cyprus on to Israel , I 'd suggest you try looking into that . If you wanted to get to Jordan avoiding Syria , then you 'd have to go through Iraq , which is n't any better ! I think you 'll have to consign yourself to not overlanding it via Turkey any time soon . Ferry in is your best bet . One other possible option is via Egypt . Friends in Egypt tell me that the situation in the country is much better now , however relations between Egypt and Israel are n't great ( to say the least ... ) . That 'd likely mean taking the <URL> and then onwards by land to the border ( and hope it 's open ) . Snag is , that ferry is reported to have issues at the moment too , as it normally stops in Syria on the way Looks like your only bet is the Cyprus ferry , assuming <URL> is telling the truth about it running at the moment ...
A good resource for checking train connections is <URL> . There are often good deals on Europe 's high speed trains , though you might only get a good deal to the south of France , not all the way into Italy . It will be hard to beat a budget flight . Obviously on journey time but also on cost . Book in time and your return journey can be as little as 40 pounds with Easyjet . Still , on <URL> you can see that , apparently , you can get a roundtrip by train from London to Italy for as little as 115 pounds . It 's a long journey , but it 's a good price .
Most of these flights are on so small airlines that it 's hard to get historical performance data on but the <URL> flight out of 34 observations , 85 % was on time , averaging only 9 minutes of delay , maximum 31 minutes of delay . So yes , the schedule is pretty firm . <URL> does show some bus connections but it 's 1.5-2 days and does not show a significant savings over a flight taking less than 2 hours so I have not pursued this avenue further . On further research I have found some outdated information on ferries going from Manila to Iloilo and on to General Santos taking even longer closer to three days . I have n't researched this either but the Wikipedia page on <URL> reports it to be a modern fleet so one can presume it 's on schedule .
Part of this may depend on where you are renting the car from . For example , if you 're renting in El Calafate , it 's pretty common for people to take cars over the border into Chile to go to Torres del Paine . While the permits and necessary steps might vary between different car rental companies , the offices for all the car rental companies should be able to help you take the necessary steps . From what I 'm seeing , it sounds like there are always additional fees . For example , see this website : <URL> I do n't think it 's likely that you 'll be able to get detailed information about this on any of the main rental car websites ( Hertz , Budget ) and you may need to send an email to the office in the city you 're renting from so you can get all the up-to-date information . In summary : Probably the reason why it 's hard to find published info about this in English is because the rules often change and it 's not something the companies necessarily want to encourage . But having said that , it 's almost definitely possible , so you should n't be afraid to ask ! :)
Passenger transport between the Kraków bus station and the John Paul II Airport in Balice runs via a dedicated railway line on the route Balice Airport - Main Station ( departures approximately every half-hour , travel time 15 min ) or by bus line no. 292 ( travel time approx . 40 min ) <URL> This train calls Balice Ekspres . But since 1st February 2014 it is not worked because of modernisation railways . So the best way is take a bus 292 or taxy . There you can find timetable of 292 bus from T1 terminal of Krakow airport : <URL>
Malaria is transmitted by a specific type of mosquito ( female anopheles ) that breeds in still / stagnant water that collects after monsoons . If you 're travelling during winter or summer in India , you do n't have to worry about this too much as the weather conditions are not conducive for these specific mosquitoes to breed . Locals usually do n't take malaria pills , instead preferring to sleep in mosquito nets that will prevent you from getting bitten regardless of what type of mosquito it is . Most mosquitoes you 'll get bitten by ( and you will ) are harmless . While most travellers going to take precautions against malaria , another mosquito vector-borne disease that is common in India is <URL> . Compared to malaria , dengue is a bigger threat as it 's harder to ' prevent ' ; there are no pills or vaccinations for it . Like malaria , this is also transmitted by a specific kind of mosquito ( aedes aegypti ) locally known as ' tiger mosquito ' as it has yellow-striped bands on its legs . If you see such a mosquito , then you know to be extra careful . City and town authorities take disease control seriously and frequent fumigation is carried out during monsoon season ; you will be fairly safe when if you 're stick mostly to cities when travelling . It helps to keep an eye on local newspapers if you 're travelling for longer periods for news about dengue outbreaks . Take extra precaution when you 're staying near places with stagnant pools of water , such as the nature reserves , backwater lagoons et al. . Long story short : Sleep in a mosquito net , or burn a ' <URL> ' ( ask for it at any convenience store ; it burns slowly and releases smoke fumes that keep mosquitoes away . Handier to carry around than a net , but fragile so no point buying in bulk as they will break when packed in bags ) . It will keep you safe from malaria/dengue-carrying mosquitoes and every other kind .
I 'm assuming you do n't want to drive ( that 's still an option though ) but you have the choice between flying or taking the train . According to <URL> Fly Both cities have airports and both Indonesian Airlines and Air China have a service between the two , though the airport in Chita is a little far from the center of town . <URL> Train There 's a train that leaves twice a week to China from Chita 2 station which is closer to the city than the airport . There 's also a night train which interestingly enough seems to take less time , at least according to the website . It 's operated by Russian railways <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Are the TSA rules legally binding ?
The TSA was created by the <URL> , which also empowers it to make and enforce regulations , and gives the executive branch the authority to press charges . In addition there are also FAA regulations which are also authorized by the Congress . Acting against the TSA/FAA regulations is acting against regulations placed by an agency authorized by the Congress to place it . It makes it illegal . Consider " Speed Limit " sign - there 's no law for every street and road limiting speed on that particular road . But there 's a law allowing designated agencies to put and enforce speed limits on various roads based on various conditions . TSA regulations are similar in nature .
As a matter of fact , they just have been reopened . The Musée Carnavalet , the museum in charge of the catacombs , announced on their <URL> one hour ago : Bonne nouvelle ! Les Catacombes sont de nouveau ouvertes au public . Nous vous souhaitons un agréable après-midi Which translates to : " Good news ! The catacombs are now again open to the public . We wish you a good afternoon . "
The <URL> has a page about your rights to camp in Iceland . Camping with no more than three tents is allowed on uncultivated ground for a single night , unless the landowner has posted a notice to the contrary . However , campers should always use designated campsites where they do exist . Do not camp close to farms without permission . If a group of more than three tents is involved , these campers must seek permission from the landowner before setting up camp outside marked campsite areas . So , if there is no sign , and the land is n't being used to grow things , you have the right to camp there for one night . That is pretty much all the law says . So , yes you can camp at the side of the road , IF there is a place to park your car . You should not park your car on the land . Do not drive off the road or track . Motor vehicles can leave marks that last for generations . Driving off roads or tracks is against the law except when the ground is frozen and covered in snow . See further information under " Practical Information/Driving in Iceland " . Staying away from houses is just a basic courtesy . The best rule of thumb to follow in my experience is to never be close enough that you can see anything in the windows , and definitely stay away from gardens and obviously enclosed personal space . 300 meters at the minimum . Sources : <URL> my own personal experiences camping in the wild in Iceland , Sweden and Finland .
As a national from an EU country you do not have are any obligations as regards residence permits . However , if you want , you can apply for one at the préfecture , the town hall of the place of residence or the police station . You are not subject to work permits . You have to fill in a tax return if you are over 18 and if you live in France permanently with your family ; that is where you have your main place of residence ; that is where you perform your main professional activity ; the core of your economic interests are in France For more information you can have a look at <URL>
Those backpacks are very comfortable and they help to reduce the back sweating we all have experienced during long trips . I think the choice depends greatly on the type of trip you are planning to take . If you are leaving for a , let 's say , three day trek where you do n't need much stuff with you , and you will likely have the backpack with you at all times , then that is the perfect choice for minimizing fatigue . If , instead , you are leaving for a month trip in , eg , middle east where you need much more space and you wo n't likely have the backpack with you all day ( because you can leave it in hostels , train etc ) I would go for a normal and lighter one ( not to mention that usual backpack are less likely to be stolen than a fancier one )
If you were gone for a little less than three months , rather than three months or more , it qualifies as a " short gap " in coverage and so you 're exempt from the requirement to have insurance . From the <URL> What are the statutory exemptions from the requirement to obtain minimum essential coverage ? ... Short coverage gap . You went without coverage for less than three consecutive months during the year . For more information , see question 22 . Otherwise , I suspect that you 're out of luck . There 's an exemption from having coverage if you 're gone for an entire year ; from the <URL> U.S. citizens living abroad are generally subject to the same individual shared responsibility provision as U.S. citizens living in the United States . Starting in 2014 , the individual shared responsibility provision calls for each individual to have minimum essential coverage ( MEC ) for each month , qualify for an exemption , or make a payment when filing his or her federal income tax return . However , U.S. citizens or residents living abroad for at least 330 days within a 12 month period are treated as having MEC during those 12 months and thus will not owe a shared responsibility payment for any of those 12 months . Also , U.S. citizens who qualify as a bona fide resident of a foreign country for an entire taxable year are treated as having MEC for that year . It may still be cheaper to pay the tax penalty for the three months in question than it would be to buy insurance that 's valid in the US , though . You might want to look in to how much the penalty would actually be for you . The penalty for full-year non-coverage is <URL> this would be pro-rated for the parts of the year in which you do n't have coverage , so your penalty would be about a quarter of this amount . Disclaimer : I am not a lawyer or a tax professional of any kind , so my reading could be entirely off-base . There may be other exemptions that I 'm not aware of .
It seems that the blog entry you linked is outdated ( 2012 ) , as a newer similar <URL> simply does not list the tennis rackets as a prohibited item onboard while it does list the other items . <URL> has the most recent policies , which clearly allows it . Anyway , here is a list of some of the airlines policies regarding tennis racquets , they would have not allowed them if they were not allowed by TSA : Delta : Allowed , check <URL> , under " Fragile , Bulky &amp; Other Items " . United : Allowed ( one item only ) , check the " Tennis " section in the <URL> . JetBlue : : Allowed ( counted as a carry-on piece ) , check the <URL> . American Airlines : : Allowed , check the <URL> . Bear in mind that most ( if not all ) airlines will count it as a carry-on baggage , so if your carry-on allowance is one piece , then the racquet will use that , you will need to pay some $ if you are carrying a bag with you along with it .
A couple of resources that I find useful : <URL> : A comprehensive listing of visa , health , customs ( in its British English , not American English , definition ) for different destinations compiled by IATA . I have found this is fairly accurate . The form , however , is cumbersome as it asks you to fill in far too many details than required . <URL> : I discovered this website fairly recently . It 's simple in that it allows you to choose what country 's passport you hold , and then show a list of countries that have visa-free or visa-on-arrival entry . This is good for a brief overview use it with caution . As of now , it sometimes misses out information that might affect visas due to residency status either way ; sometimes , it 's harder ( you need to go back to country of nationality ) and sometimes it 's easier ( you can get visa-free/on-arrival holding a passport of one country if you 're considered a resident of another ) .
I am the Online Media Specialist for STL Metro , and I can see your point that rules and regulations may not have a cohesive home on the website . Are there specific questions I can answer for you ? Basic riding rules including must have valid fare , no eating or drinking , no loud music , no pets except for service animals , no leaving your bags unattended .
The relevant law is California Vehicle Code § 12502 and § 12505 . According to § 12502 , ( a ) The following persons may operate a motor vehicle in this state without obtaining a driver 's license under this code : 1 . A nonresident over the age of 18 years having in his or her immediate possession a valid driver 's license issued by a foreign jurisdiction of which he or she is a resident , except as provided in Section 12505 . 2 . ... According to § 12505 , [ ... ] residency shall be determined as a person 's state of domicile . " State of domicile " means the state where a person has his or her true , fixed , and permanent home and principal residence and to which he or she has manifested the intention of returning whenever he or she is absent . Prima facie evidence of residency for driver 's licensing purposes includes , but is not limited to , the following : ( A ) Address where registered to vote . ( B ) Payment of resident tuition at a public institution of higher education . ( C ) Filing a homeowner 's property tax exemption . ( D ) Other acts , occurrences , or events that indicate presence in the state is more than temporary or transient . [ ... ] ( c ) Any person entitled to an exemption under Section 12502 , 12503 , or 12504 may operate a motor vehicle in this state for not to exceed 10 days from the date he or she establishes residence in this state What that all means is that , yes , if you have in your possession a driver 's license issued by your country of residence , and it legally allows you to operate a motorcycle , you can use that foreign driver 's license in California to operate a motorcycle . There is also a decent writeup by not a lawyer at <URL>
In addition to other answers , I can think of : A psychological advantage , people who hate flying tend to board late . This somehow makes them feel better . If the plane is not full and you are boarding last , you can sit at any empty seat . Passengers who board early usually sit in their assigned seats to avoid any embarrassments unlike people who board late ( they know there 's few people left ) If you were trying to use some smart ways to be upgraded to B/C or F/C , boarding late is important . If you have an aisle seat ( especially in wide bodied airplane ) boarding late is better to avoid standing and getting out of the way to let people sit . If you are a paranoid person and you are obsessed about gear collapse , boarding late will decrease the chances of facing a gear collapse situation ( gears collapse while the plane is parked , causing the fuselage to hit the ground which might lead to injury ) .
When you look at NYC you have to consider that 1 hour ( drive ) stretches from 30 to 50 miles depending on traffic . In addition the purpose of the resort as I understand it is to provide activities for the guests that they ca n't find outside the resort area , they are lower quality , or it is unsafe to step out , which is definitely not the case for NYC . If you do want to find the resorts in the area you would have to go far in Long Island like <URL> <URL> You can probably find a <URL> though I have to warn you that you will be looking at 2 hours minimum commute to NYC . There are resorts on the <URL> or in <URL> but you are looking at commute a lot longer then one hour ( probably 2.5 + ) . My very serious suggestion is to abandon the private resort idea when it comes to visit NYC as you will miss the whole point of The City ( crowds , tempo , etc )
<URL> for a third party web site to accept an ESTA application from you and submit it on your behalf . However , <URL> you would be charged at the official page . You may also have visited <URL> , and there is no good way to determine in advance if the site will really submit the application for you or not . It 's best , then , to always go to the <URL> to apply or update your information . Note that virtually all U.S. government web sites have a domain ending in . Of course , it is illegal under US law for a site to take your money and not submit the ESTA application . CBP recommends that , if this has happened to you , that you dispute the charges with your bank or credit card issuer .
Your question has both legal , but perhaps more important , also moral aspects . Generally speaking , when airborne , an aircraft is subject to the legislation of the carrier 's home country . So far so good . I am not sure if medical doctors according to US law is both legally required to help in an emergency and liable to damages they inflict even if practicing in good faith , but if it is so , the doctor you are talking about is indeed relieved from these legal obligations when flying with a foreign carrier . The legal regulations defining liabilities , but also the duty to help are however very different from country to country . E.g. German criminal code contains " non-assistance of a person in danger " ( unterlassene Hilfeleistung ) as an offense and obligates even lay-men to help in case of an accident or medical emergency . Failure to do so is punishable with a fine or even up to one year imprisonment . I am also not aware of any country actually forbidding medical doctors or lay-men to provide assistance in case of emergencies . Members of " Médecins Sans Frontières " are regularly both assisting and practicing medicine in countries , in which they are in most cases probably not legally approved to work as doctors . Even without any legal regulations , medical doctors at least ought ( IMHO ) to feel morally obligated to follow the Hippocratic oath and help wherever possible .
It 's normally the driver 's duty to bring the " éthylotest " ( or " alcootest " ) , but some renting companies are providing one or two . Otherwise it costs 2 $ in shop / pharmacy . Links ( in french ) for companies saying they provide it ( in brackets , price you pay if you used it ) : <URL> ( ? $ ) , <URL> ( ? $ ) , <URL> ( 6 $ ) , <URL> ( 5 $ ) , <URL> ( 5 $ ) . Always ask to be sure .
Visitors to Jamaica must have a yellow fever vaccination ( and accompanying proof ) if they 've arriving from a yellow fever prone country . Other than that there are plenty of recommended vaccinations but none required . <URL> <URL>
There are 67,000 people in the TSA , and an <URL> to do the job instead , so some variance will be inevitable . In your particular case , it sounds like either you 've been going through the <URL> at OAK , or they 're confused/lazy/running a quiet trial and applying the Precheck rules to all passengers : TSA Precheck allows passengers who have been pre-approved to keep on their shoes and belt , not remove their jackets , keep their laptops inside their cases , and not have to remove select liquids and gels from their bags . Full-body scanners are not mandatory and are in fact <URL> from all airports because ( shh ) they did n't work .
For the cities you need to name in your application , you do n't have to visit them exactly . I was n't sure where I was travelling , and merely named the big cities - St Petersberg , Moscow etc. . They just want a rough itinerary of where you plan to go . Once you 're IN the country , you 're required to register in a city if you 're there for 3 nights or longer . This is a pain . However , the two processes ( naming the cities on your application and registering in the cities ) are completely unrelated . Yes , it will cost you each time to register , but you can reduce this by moving around a lot ( but keep track of all your train tickets etc , police can ask you for these at any given time ) . In theory you could get registered for say , a week in Moscow and travel elsewhere , but if a policeman checks your registration papers and you 're meant to be staying in Moscow the next two nights , and you 're in Irkutsk , questions may be asked . It 's a risk you 'd have to consider . However , if no police check you , once you exit the country they do n't care again , they just check that you 've not overstayed your visa and that you still have the appropriate documentation from when you entered . So long story short , to minimise registration costs , keep moving around , but keep track of all your journey ticket etc. . However , moving may cost you more than registration , so it 's a case of working out your budget . Source : I 've been to Russia twice , once on a tourist visa , once on a multi-entry business visa ( for tourist purposes - the regular visa was too short for me ) .
If you enter security through the first class line , you will not have access to TSA Pre-Check . The TSA Pre lane is a separate lane and only there you can not remove belt , shoes , jacket , liquid bag , laptop . You can not exercise your privileges in another lane . Yes , as more and more people are enrolled into Pre sometimes using that lane is just not worth it . On the other hand , <URL> claims You 'll still be able to leave on your shoes , but will have to bypass PreCheck 's additional perks ( like leaving your laptop in its bag ) . I was unable to find anything on the TSA page confirming this . Edit : <URL> clearly says : If you have a TSA Pre ✓ ® indicator on your boarding pass , proceed to the TSA Pre ✓ ® lane It is a very interesting question whether you are allowed to use a normal lane if you have the Pre indicator -- I doubt anyone would care as long as you are scanned .
A typical Japanese breakfast consists of rice , <URL> , pickled vegetables and/or salad , fish , and possibly poached/cooked egg or <URL> . The price for this kind of breakfast starts at around 400 yen ( at a family hotel or cheap restaurant ) . Lunch might be out of a <URL> ( with contents quite similar to the breakfast minus the soup ) , or in a restaurant it might be some sort of <URL> or <URL> , or a <URL> combination of main dish , rice and soup . Expect to pay between 500 and 1000 yen . A very traditional dinner would again have rice and miso soup and pickles , plus several main dishes including <URL> and multiple types of fish or other seafood , or meat ( thought strictly speaking , meat is traditionally not eaten at all ) . But there is also a large variety of specialty dishes that often constitute a full meal : Sushi / Sashimi Sukiyaki / <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> etc. . All of these vary wildly in price , from below 1000 yen up to 10,000 yen and more at high-class restaurants . And of course , many Japanese also like foreign food , be it Chinese , French , Italian or Indian .
end question
start question
What are our visa options for staying in Costa Rica ?
After doing tons of research on the subject , I did find a website that talks about different types of residency options . Not sure which one we will apply for yet , but it is a start . <URL>
This is a curious case which will need to be addressed by the nearest Costa Rican Consulate . Costa Rica provides a <URL> for people who have a visa with at least one day validity stamped in their passport . This is the same text that exists for the holders of the US Student ( F , J ) or work ( H , G , etc ) visas ( sorry ca n't copy the exact text for some reason ) . Now with that said the question becomes what exactly stamped means in this context since most <URL> actually refers to something entirely different than an actual stamp . You will not have one like this when you under under US Visa Waiver program . So whether or not the border control in Costa Rica will accept the arrival stamp as a valid US visa is still to be determined but I would suggest you do n't take that chance and get a Visa from Costa Rica though I am not sure who is currently representing Costa Rican interests in Taiwan since the Embassy was closed in 2007 . Unless you already have valid visas for other waiver destinations like Schengen or Japan .
What they are looking for is that you have both the means and the intention to leave the country by the time your visa expires . Therefore , " round-trip " should be understood as " not one-way " . Therefore , you 'll have to provide a copy of your tickets and flight itinerary , or a letter from your travel agent that contains all the details of your flight reservation . A hotel reservation wo n't suffice , since it does n't say anything about you leaving again . An email directly from the Brazilian Consulate in Houston confirms this : Dear Sir/Madam , You must present the ticket or reservation with your flight or cruise in and out of Brazil . Origin and destination may be different as long as you are allowed to leave for the country of your outbound flight . Visa Department Consulate General of Brazil in Houston , TX visa.houston@itamaraty.gov.br
As a general rule , I would advise against renting a car for the entire trip . Renting a car in Turkey is expensive . The bus network in Turkey is very dense . Bus travel is comfortable and not expensive . Prefer the busses for long distance travel . You may consider to rent a car locally to access some sights . For very long distances , flying may be an option too . It 's more expensive than taking the bus , but you save a lot of ( precious ) holiday time . Do n't forget that Turkey is a big country and distances can be very long . It would be a shame not to stay some days in Istanbul . It is a great city not to be missed . Furthermore it is interesting to observe the contrast with the rest of the country . Cappadocia is a pretty unusual natural place . It should be on you itinerary . For the rest it depends on your style : If you want a packed trip , you can consider to go from Istanbul to Ankara and then to Cappadocia . Next you could go to the Mount Nemrut ( Nemrut Dağı ) , another " unusual " place . Finish you trip in Şanlıurfa and the go back to Istanbul , possibly by plane . If you prefer a trip with less kilometers , stay some days in Istanbul , travel then to Bursa . It 's an interesting city , a bit off the beaten track . Then go to Cappadocia , via Ankara . If you really want to do it in depth , split your time between Istanbul and Cappadocia . In July , I would stay away from the Mediterranean , unless you do have to go to the Sea . It 's really crowded then . If you do want to go to the Mediterranean , go to Çıralı , some 80 kilometers West from Antalya . If you are tempted by mountains , steppe and austere landscapes , you can consider a journey in the East . Contrary to what I say above , I would recommend that you rent a car for this precise trip . It goes through sparsely populated regions , where the bus network is not as good as it is in the West . It 's possible to do this trip on public transport , but a private car is the better option . Fly from Istanbul to Erzurum . From there you can make the following tour : Eruzururm - Yusufeli - Kars - Doğubeyazıt - Erzurum . That keeps you busy for a week or even more . If you like slow travel , you might also consider to replace the flight to or from Erzurum by a train journey . The Doğu Ekspresi is a daily sleeper train running between Ankara and Erzurum . It takes + - 16 hours . Combined with some days in Istanbul , and possibly a day in Anakra , the 13 days are quickly filled . Have a look at <URL> . It 's a very good and quite complete resource for traveling in Turkey . All the places I mention are described there .
You have to apply for the Schengen visa at either the consulate of the country you plan to stay the longest at , or if staying at all countries equally , at the port of entry . For the Italian consulate in San Francisco , there is an option to mail your ' verified ' documents instead of appearing for the interview . YOU MUST APPEAR IN PERSON to apply for a VISA or you may submit your application to the Honorary Consul for a prescreening and then mail it to the Consulate General . <URL> If you have any further questions , you could email them . They respond within a day usually in my experience . I could not find any similar option in the Greece consulate in San Francisco . <URL>
Immigration officials should not really care either way , you are simply supposed not to exceed the validity of your visa . They would not care on entry , you have a visa that 's valid for the trip you planned and it make little sense to require more than that . But if you do n't make it in time , they wo n't care much that you had no buffer either , i.e. that 's not an excuse and that would not necessarily protect you from negative consequences . If you are forced to exit a day or two late , I would expect most border guards to let it slip as described by @happysathya , i.e. not bother with formally finding you in breach and imposing a fine . But you would still have an exit stamp in your passport that shows you have technically overstayed and consulates might take that into account the next time you apply for a visa . One final tip : If something serious and unexpected happens ( health issue , <URL> ) , do approach the authorities yourself to request an extension of your visa . They have the power to grant one in force majeure cases and the more forthcoming and proactive you are , the less likely you are to suffer any negative consequences .
Airliners or staff tickets are not available to regular passengers , they are strictly available to employees of different airlines . Each airlines provides each employee with certain or unlimited number of free/discounted tickets each year/contract depending on the contract or level of the employee . In addition to that each airline may have a bilateral agreement with other airlines so employees of these airlines can get discounted space available tickets on the other airline , this is called <URL> . The process of getting such a ticket is not as easy as dropping by an airline 's ticketing office and get one ! it has to be issued from the employee 's airline according to the agreement and it may have a special application to be filled and the person has to show proper airlines ID prior to boarding . These tickets usually are extremely cheap ( around 90 % discount or more ) but it is seat available , I have saved a lot of money because of the ZED agreements , I also have faced a lot of delays when the planes are full and I could n't get a seat . Anyway , staff tickets are only available to airlines staff . For regular passengers I am not aware of any disounted " Space Available " tickets , the only way to go is the different offers and discounts from different airlines/websites .
I have no experience with this particular scenario and ca n't tell you exactly how this particular Spanish consulate will treat your application but in theory it should not be an issue . As far as the regulations are concerned , you should have a legitimate purpose and the financial means to pay for your accommodation , nothing more . There is absolutely no obligation to have each and every night accounted for and technically , you do n't even need any specific booking or reservation , although it can be useful to support your application . Your other question suggests you applied for a visa for a longer , more complex trip . If you do get a multiple-entry or two-entry visas from October 1st to the end of your trip to Greece , it would also allow you to enter on the 11th so the whole issue is moot ( there is no such thing as a visa valid for one entry on the 1st and one entry on the 12th , it 's either a single-entry visa or two entries at any time during the period of validity ) . Since you are , as far as I can tell , a UK resident with a good profile , my guess is that you will get a multiple-entry with enough flexibility not to worry about this . But even if you do n't , you would still have the option of shortening the trip at the other end ( returning to the UK one day earlier to avoid going over the maximum stay limit ) .
I would recommend a car . Once you get 2 or 3 people , it 's by far the cheapest way to go . Also , it lets you keep your options open for when and where you want to go . If you 're budget conscious , check out <URL> . I did a trip with my girlfriend a few years back from Calgary to Kelowna and we went with them . Was a good experience . The cars are n't ' wrecks ' , they 're just not as nice as the average rental agency . You also do n't have to be 25 to get a normal rate , and the prices are very good .
Any kind of work effectively connected with U.S. i.e. performing some labor and getting any kind of compensation ( not necessarily monetary ) <URL> . What you describe fits into <URL> . Those can be arranged through some agencies ( e.g. au pair , work-travel , camp counselling and similar ) . Main purpose/focus is classified as cultural exchange , not as performing work for compensation . You will get a work permit ( as a part of visa ) for some limited time ( e.g. 2 months ) . For longer term unqualified labor ( especially ranch ) , there is <URL> , which has to be initiated by an employer , and is relatively long and complicated process .
You basically have three options : Amtrak . Take the <URL> train from Vancouver to Seattle in about four hours . The big benefit here is that the train is n't nearly as affected by car traffic at the border , which can be very lengthy especially going into the US . This is because you actually clear US immigration at the train station in Vancouver before boarding the train . The down side to that is that you have to arrive earlier than you think , to be sure that you have time to clear immigration . Another down side is that it 's expensive . The cheapest ticket I could find was $ 41 each way , and for a more reasonable schedule you may pay more than $ 60 each way . These prices are likely to go up as the dates approach . Also note that you have to be careful when booking on Amtrak as most of the schedules they offer for this route are actually on buses . Bus . Several bus services ( <URL> , <URL> , and such ) offer service between Vancouver and Seattle , for as little as $ 15 each way . The down side is that you are subject to traffic jams at the border . While the bus companies generally factor border waits into their schedules , if it 's unusually busy , you might find yourself arriving later than you expected . A typical trip is also about four hours . Drive yourself . If you can cross the border at less busy hours , you can avoid the traffic jams and complete the trip in as little as two and a half hours ( assuming you are n't speeding ) . Late night on a weeknight would be such a time . And , gas is cheaper in the US than in Canada , ( even though it 's more expensive in Washington state than most other places in the US ) so you have an opportunity to fill up your car both on the way down and on the way back . If you have a NEXUS card you 'll skip most of the traffic at the border anyway . Aside from traffic at the border , the big down side is that you have to figure out where to park your car in Seattle .
All local tickets work on both trains/metro and buses . There is an Oyster-like contactless card called Rejsekort , which gives fares about half of those of discrete tickets . Unfortunately it 's not terribly convenient for visitors . The transport agencies are pushing hard to get everyone to use name-registered cards ( which require ordering in advance and having the card mailed to a Danish postal address ) . There are anonymous cards available , but they are quite expensive ( a 80 DKK issuing fee plus a minimum balance of 70 DKK ) and are only sold from selected ticket offices . There are vending machines that issue anonymous cards at the airport , at the central station , and at all metro stations . Leftover balances ( including the 70 DKK minimum balance ) can be refunded at very few places . Within Copenhagen the only opportunities seem to be the airport , at the main ticket counter at the central station , and at Valby station . To use the Rejsekort , touch in and out at the card readers in buses or at platforms , recognizable by a glowing blue disk . The card readers marked " check ind " is for touching in , and those marked " check ud " are for touching out . Touching out is optional if you 're continuing directly to a different train/bus where you touch in again , but if you leave the system without touching out , a penalty fare will be deducted . If you 're used to Oyster , note in particular that you must touch out when leaving a bus at the end of your journey ! For short visits , two types of 24-hour tickets exist , and can be bought from vending machines . City Pass ( 90 DKK for 24 hours ) is valid in fare zones 1 through 4 , which means a distance of roughly 5-6 kilometers from the city center plus the entire island of Amager ( so you can get to the airport ) . This also exists in a 72-hour variant for 200 DKK . A plain 24-hour ticket ( 130 DKK ) is valid in the entire Capital Region plus the old Roskilde County -- that is , up to distances of about 50 kilometers from Copenhagen ( except Sweden ) or everything to the north and east of the cities of Roskilde and Køge . Then there are 7-day " FlexCard " period tickets which can be good value if you travel a lot during a one-week visit . The downside is that you need to know in advance exactly which fare zones you need it to be valid , and figuring that out is probably not worth it for most visitors-for-pleasure .
One option would be to use a pay-as-you-go " plan " with either a long validity of the credit when you top up a lot , or a low monthly fee . The <URL> , for example , lists a $ 3/month Pay-as-you-go choice that includes a few minutes/month .
As a Spanish citizen , one does not seem to need a visa to stay in Malaysia up to 3 months ( 90 days I suppose , the exact number of days is not specified on the website for some reason ) . The <URL> has a very strange page saying first " VISA REQUIREMENT BY COUNTRY , please click the following websites , www.imi.gov.my or www.kln.gov.my " , &amp; then displaying information about " SINGLE ENTRY VISA VALID FOR 14 OR 30 DAYS " . I chose to ignore the last info &amp; go to the <URL> which is the website of the Immigration Department in Malaysia . The <URL> does not mention Spain as one of the nationalities when a visa is needed . The only conclusion I can draw is that Spanish nationals do n't need a visa for Malaysia . See also the <URL> - although you should always triple check what is mentioned here with what official authorities say .
You might want to check out : <URL> The official site for the <URL> which has an <URL> You might also consider the <URL> If you want to buy bus tickets to other cities , consider <URL> If you are staying in Buenos Aires for a considerable time you will save money with the <URL> card . I am not sure about the requirements for foreigners though .
This is a good question . If you have 5 days and you travel via Geneva there is an interesting option , which provides a good balance between time spent in trains , cities and mountains . This options involves using the scenic <URL> between Montreux and Luzern . The nice point about this trip is that it can be done at any time of the year . The trains are running all year round . And the mountains are always nice ! The trip runs as follows : Paris - Geneva - Lausanne - Montreux - Zweisimmen - Interlaken - Luzern - Zürich . Below you find a proposal of how to allocate the 5 days . The travel times are approximate . Use the <URL> to find out the precise information . Day 1 : Travel from Paris to Geneva ( 3 hours ) in the morning . Visit Geneva and continue to Lausanne ( 40 minutes ) in the evening . Spend the night in Lausanne . Day 2 : Spend a day and a night in Lausanne . Day 3 : Travel by train to Montreux ( 20 minutes ) and take there the train to Zweisimmen ( 2 hours ) and from there a train to Interlaken ( 90 minutes ) . You can spend the night in Interlaken or in Grindelwald or Wengen . The latter are two nice villages in the surroundings . It 's a matter of taste ( and possibly of budget ) . Day 4 : Spend a day in the mountains and visit the <URL> . Stay overnight in Interlaken , Grindelwald or Wengen . Day 5 : Travel to Luzern ( 2 hours from Interlaken ) , in the morning . Visit Luzern . When you are done , continue to Zürich ( 45 minutes ) . Of course , the 5 days can be allocated a bit differently , according to your gusto .
All flights are subject to schedule changes and yes sometimes it can be by as much as 48 or more hours and yes it is totally legal . You usually have three choices : 1 ) you can accept the new flight schedule ; 2 ) you can ask them to reschedule you on another flight without fee ; 3 ) you can cancel and get a full refund . But these options come with a time limit , after which it will be automatically assumed that you accepted the new flight schedule and the fare 's cancellation / change penalties come into effect . As it seems your trip has not started , there is no compensation due ( unless the PC EU has added a rule about that ) . But this is one of the reasons for purchasing travel insurance .
As a UK citizen and a visitor , you 're required to obtain an electronic <URL> that allows you 90 days in Turkey . This should largely cover the time of your stay , which you mentioned was a couple of weeks . Turkey defines work , the criteria for a work visa , as being a paid activity . It does n't have a specific <URL> visa , and you 'll note that <URL> visas require detailed documents about your payment , employer and specific <URL> requirements . So if you 're not being paid , that makes you ineligible for a work visa .
As usual , ' best ' is not a good question ? Does that mean ' cheapest ' , ' fastest ' or ' best scenery ' ? It seems there is only one direct flight from Havana to San Jose , this is with <URL> , a one way fare can be found for $ 350 US . Alternatively you can fly to Cancun ( Mexico ) , Managua ( Nicaragua ) or Panama City and then take <URL> .
<URL> : lockers are now available in Porto downtown at Trindade metro station - with direct connection to Porto Airport . The station is opened all the year from 06am to 01am , and the service it 's not expensive . Another link to the <URL> shows more information . Their FAQ is broken in English , but from my rough translation , it 's not necessary to reserve , they 're open from 6am to 1am , and the baggage dimensions for storage are : Small : 36x48x85 cm . Medium : 36x65x85 cm . Large : 36x99x85 cm . The prices depend on how long and how large a locker you require , and are available <URL> . It varies between 1 Euro for 1 hour for a small bag up to 6 Euros for an all day storage of a large one . At the time of writing there is just one block of lockers comprising 16 small lockers , 9 medium and 2 large , as shown in this picture ( from the aforementioned company website ) : <URL> If you are travelling with large suitcases you 'll need to either find a free large locker or try to cram the suitcase in a medium one . Note that being the only self-service luggage storage service in Porto , the lockers tend to be all occupied most of the time .
end question
start question
Should I change most of my money in my home country or in the destination country ?
This varies very much depending on your country of origin and your destination . Best exchange rate mean lowest <URL> , but keep in mind , that some banks apart of the spread , also charge extra commissions . Keeping that in mind , there are some general tendencies . Exchange rates , from best , to worst : electronic transactions ( i.e. transactions made directly with the credit card ) . These usually have the lowest spread ( or none at all for major currencies ) and typically using major credit cards there is no extra commission . This is the preferred option when you 're traveling in developed countries . cash withdrawal ( usually ATM , note however , that on rare occasions when paying with card , it 'll be actually charged as cash withdrawal ) . This usually has decent spread , some banks charge commissions , some do n't . Your Mileage May Vary . Check availability of ATMs accepting your cards beforehand . In some exotic countries you 'll only get them at main airport . ( btw . some banks/ATM operators charge fixed or minimum fee per transaction , so it 's better to make one bigger withdrawal , than a number of smaller ones ) . money exchange at your bank , i.e. withdrawing money from your account in other currency . Problem with that is , that it 's impractical to carry around large quantities of cash when you 're traveling . local money exchange , least favorable , but in really exotic countries that might be your only option . Especially when you 're in situation , that you 've run out of local currency and you 're not anywhere close to civilization . The exception are countries , where the money is not fully and freely interchangeable . In that case most often black-market exchange will give you much more than the official ones at banks . However , using black-market you 're exposing yourself to fraud .
Traveling is a personal experience and the things you will need really depend on what you want to do . If you are going on holiday where you will be doing a bunch of things , I will pack all the necessary things I need at home and not worry too much about my trip . To cut to the chase , here 's my list of essentials : Shades or sunglasses , do n't forget them . If you are a swimmer or just to want to make yourself wet in a pool , have a pair of your swimming clothes and goggles . A laptop , assuming you do n't want to escape the rat race . Condoms , assuming you are married and want to have sex with your partner without the risk of making her pregnant . A towel , good to have when you are lying somewhere on a beach . Novels or books in general . Will help you enjoy long flights where passengers setting next to you are as grumpy as Donald Trump . Do some research on what to read and what 's new . It all depends on your interest . ( I carry my Kindle all the time ) . A flashlight . Good to have when you are out on a beach at night , or travel to an unknown land where you need to find your way around in the dark . Cash in local currency . And make sure you have some singles . You can do this after you land in your destination . Research the place before you travel . With that , you are making sure about what to do and where to go . Travel documents . Make sure you have them on you at all times . Shit happens , and you never know when . Have both the two and three pin plug adapters for your computer or electronic devices . A multi-adapter might be even better . Make sure you have your chargers in your handbag or backpack . Your credit card . Inform your bank that you are traveling so that they do n't block your card when they see a charge from a place in a far away land . At least that 's what I need to do in the US . A pen and paper . Training clothes and shoes . Most hotels will not let you use their facility in flip-flops . Last but not least , a nice backpack .
I do n't know what the law is , but when I was on Cuba , I always left my passport in the hotel safe and carried a copy . I spent some hours in a police station in Havana but I do n't think anybody ever wanted to see my passport . Many Europeans also have an identity card , I often carry that with me as a form of authentication . It does n't help you to get into the country , but it is a legal document and can be helpful if you have to deal with the authorities .
Well <URL> in the world . I 'll ignore lightvessels for this question . For European countries : Belgium - 6 Bulgaria - 5 Denmark - 6 Estonia - 42 Finland - 9 France - several Wales - 25ish Scotland - tons Portugal - 44 continental , more in Azores Spain - tons Sweden - 20ish England - 50ish Norway - tons etc you get the idea . From that , you can either infer there are loads in Norway , Portugal , Spain and Estonia , or there may just be lighthouse obsessed fans in those countries . <URL> maintains an index for more than 14,700 of the world 's lighthouses . So that 's another good place to start . They also note : It is not so easy to define exactly what we mean by a lighthouse , and various organizations and individuals have used very different definitions when describing or classifying lighthouses . Clearly , all lighthouses are lighted aids to navigation , but not all lighted aids are considered to be lighthouses . Some definitions are not controversial . An aid to navigation is a structure placed on or near navigable water to provide visual guidance to mariners . A beacon is an aid to navigation that is fixed in place ( that is , not floating ) . A lighted beacon or lightbeacon is a beacon displaying a light , while an unlit beacon is called a daybeacon . Often , a lighted beacon is simply called a light . In this Directory , a lighthouse is a lightbeacon having a height of at least 4 meters ( 13 ft ) and a cross-section , at the base , of at least 4 square meters ( 43 sq ft ) . This simple definition does not require that a lighthouse have any particular form or appearance . The structure of a lighthouse may be enclosed , partially enclosed , or completely open . If you went state-side , apparently " <URL> " . According to <URL> , there are 1032 in England . Finally , I found <URL> , which plots lighthouses on a map . It 's not very detailed , but I 'd say Denmark in this case . You might also contact the <URL> , as they may well have statistics somewhere , or know who might . EDIT In addition , someone mentioned the coastline effect . While it would seem to indicate more chance of lighthouses , in reality it 's dependent more on dangerous , irregular and busy coastlines . If it 's easy sailing and deep water , why have a lighthouse ? However , there 's probably some rough correlation still - as a tiny coastline like Latvia is probably going to have fewer than Norway . To that effect , here is <URL> , and the longest European one is Norway , unless you also count Russia as European ...
Whenever I used to visit Montreal I 'd try to hit as many of the following as possible : The Old Port of Montreal St. Catherines street Bell Centre/new forum . Plus the old forum , it 's a lot of hockey history , and my favourite restaurant is right next door ( indeed the only St. Hubert 's I 'll go to ) Olympic Stadium , although it was more when they had a baseball team . Westmount , if you want to see some history and see how the rich folks live in Montreal . Mount Royal , has a great view of the city . Montreal casino and the Laurentians , but that 's not really in town . Really with few exceptions you ca n't really go wrong with anywhere in Montreal . It 's got a multitude of things to check out that you ca n't say about most other cities in North America . And the the restaurant and night life ? Top notch .
Things to consider : data roaming is very expensive you 're charged for incoming calls in roaming you 're charged local cost + roaming surcharge for outgoing If you have a sim-free second phone , your best option is to buy local sim . Pay-as-you-go ( called pre-paid here ) are very popular and inexpensive in Poland . You can get them as low as 5PLN ( $ 1.60 CAD ) . You can get 1GB data package for 25PLN ( $ 8.10 CAD ) . Comparison of current offers : <URL> Columns are different offers from various operators . Row groups : first 4 - price per minute to different networks ( " bezpłatnie " = free ) . SMS in the same network , different network , MMS , data w/o data package validity of the credit in days ( outgoing/incoming , depending on the credit you bought , eg . with 5zł " Play na kartę " starter you can make calls for 5 days and receive calls for 65 days before you have to recharge more credit , " rok " = " a year " ) extra packages ( most likely not interesting for you , except data packages ) .
According to the article in the <URL> it is possible as long as she 's in a female only area and hence you ca n't be with her . This information obviously is a little dated but the only area that is known for laxer regulations would be the island of <URL> but that information is even more dated . The most recent English news I was able to find is an <URL> so legally it is highly unlikely that regulations enforced for hijab would be laxer for bikinis .
Use the <URL> to find the best exchange rate in the city ( <URL> works great for Russian ) : As of today , <URL> has the best rates .
I 'm answering as a frequent traveler to Russia ( have been to many different cities there over the course of many years ) . First , in all my travels and interactions with Russian authorities , I have never once been asked by any government official for any registration papers ( though I 've always registered when required by law ) . A lot of the scary warnings about registering in Russia date back to the early 2000s , when the laws were much stricter and it was a real possibility to be stopped in the streets of Moscow by police for a random registration check ( as I understand it , such checks are illegal now ) . Registration law has undergone a lot of changes over the years , most notably the official Federal Migration Service site mentions a significant change/relaxation of the law in 2007 ( see <URL> in Russian ) Having said all of the above , here is my understanding of the information on the site above , as well as of the text of the law itself ( <URL> ) : If you 're staying in a hotel ( even for one day ) , the hotel will register you Otherwise , you 're required to register within 7 days of arrival to your " place of stay " ( " место пребывания " ) . It is reasonable to interpret it as " within 7 days of arriving to a particular city " ( there is other mention in the law of being able to change the " place of stay " so I 'm guessing " place of stay " does NOT mean the " final destination " of the trip ) . Sadly , however , there 's no clarification of this anywhere in the law . I guess it would be up to a judge/local authorities to interpret , but again - I do n't think realistically this is a problem . In your situation , I would just keep all the travel documentation and not worry about registering . Confusingly , the English-language page ( <URL> ) does mention registration within 7 days of arriving in Russia ( with no mention of the " place of stay " ) , but I 'm pretty sure this is just a poor translation , or instructions for the common case of someone visiting a single place in Russia . In any case , the English page is not the actual law . If you want to be super-safe , spend your 1st night in a hotel/hostel ( this way you technically are registered in the first 7 days since your arrival ) . Given how confusing this area of the law is , you of course wo n't be immune from random annoyances given your registration-less status . I can think of one example where this happened to me : A hotel clerk ( in a proper , expensive , Western-style hotel ) refused to register me because I have n't registered anywhere within 7 days of arriving into Russia ( because I was hopping from city to city ) - basically , they took the interpretation of the law as stated on the English page above - however , this happened just once , and I do n't think the hotel clerk was an expert on migration law , I think she was just trying to play it safe in the face of confusing information Please keep in mind that I 'm not a lawyer ( especially not a Russian one ) Registration has been an unpleasant and time-consuming process every time I 've done it ( trying to fit into the local FMS office 's schedule , lineups , complex forms that have to be refilled multiple times until you get it just right , extensive documentation requirements - proof of apartment ownership and such , etc ) . It 's worth avoiding it if at all possible .
Have you tried phoning the FRRO ( different from the FRO ) to ask them ? Google suggests you may be able to get the FRRO to issue you with an exit visa despite the missing residence permit . Experiences with the FRO seem more hit and miss , but you could always drop in and ask them if you have the time to spare ...
The easiest way to solve this problem is to avoid US-based airlines . These will stop in the US as that would be their main transit hub . If you stick with European airlines , you can avoid the US completely . You did not mention from where in Europe , but as an example from UK you have <URL> .
You have to follow both , i.e. stay at most 28 days at some time between 02/08/2015 and 13/09/2015 . Therefore , you can not stay longer than 28 days on this visa in any event and if you have not used your 28 days by the 13th of September , you must leave anyway . You also have to respect the number of entries , which means that if you enter some time in August and leave a few days later , you can not use this visa anymore and you lose the benefit of the rest of the maximum period of stay . 09/08/2015 to 05/09/2015 is indeed 28 days and within the period of validity of your visa , so that 's fine . In principle , the conditions of your visa should be based on the information you submitted with your application and allow you to complete your trip as intended . The validity is typically a little longer to give you some flexibility .
Unless you 're from a country that requires you to obtain an <URL> , there is no sharing of information as a general rule . Even in cases where there are information sharing agreements , such as between <URL> , <URL> , or in the <URL> , the information that is shared is about people from outside the info-sharing nations , but not about their own citizens . It may be possible for one country to ask for legal assistance to obtain information about a specific person , and who knows what information is shared by the secret services , of course , but on the visible side , countries do not know what their citizens do while away . EDIT As pointed out by @MeNoTalk , the <URL> , where airplane passenger data is transmitted to the destination country . Thus , your government may not know where you 're headed , but they will know from where you return , if you come back by plane .
Right after security checks ( at least in the terminal I used ) there were two changing rooms that are probably used for extra security checks . I asked the security staff if I could use it to get changed and their response was " sure , of course " so I went ahead and did . Indeed nobody even seemed to care . The changing room featured a chair , enough space and was very clean . <URL> Alternatively let me propose a solution here that has not been mentioned yet : Go to a clothing store in the airport shopping area , find a sales clerk that is free and ask politely if you could use their changing rooms for a second to change your clothes . No guarantee that it 'll work but you can try at least .
From Berlin , the closest non Schengen destination is the <URL> . The beeline distance is + - 500 kilometers and over the road its + - 600 kilometers . There are direct flights between Berlin and Kaliningrad . It is just one hour . Otherwise , there are a couple of places in non Schengen countries that you can reach in more or less 2h30 by plane : Sofia ( Bulgaria ) , Bucharest ( Romania ) , Belgrade ( Serbia ) and Zagreb ( Croatia ) . So as to find the most cost effective option , I would play a bit with <URL> or a similar tool . In 2 hours you can also reach Kiev ( Ukraine ) or Minsk ( Belarus ) from Berlin . However prices for direct flights to these destinations are much higher than for the other destinations mentioned . Depending on your citizenship , all these destinations may not be visa free . And a visa may not be obtained for free . Take that into account .
If your both legs are on the same ticket ( made in the same booking ) then they will definitely check in your luggage to the final destination . You will just change planes without going through immigration . If you have two separate bookings than it is not as obvious - contact the airline to double check .
This varies very much depending on your country of origin and your destination . Best exchange rate mean lowest <URL> , but keep in mind , that some banks apart of the spread , also charge extra commissions . Keeping that in mind , there are some general tendencies . Exchange rates , from best , to worst : electronic transactions ( i.e. transactions made directly with the credit card ) . These usually have the lowest spread ( or none at all for major currencies ) and typically using major credit cards there is no extra commission . This is the preferred option when you 're traveling in developed countries . cash withdrawal ( usually ATM , note however , that on rare occasions when paying with card , it 'll be actually charged as cash withdrawal ) . This usually has decent spread , some banks charge commissions , some do n't . Your Mileage May Vary . Check availability of ATMs accepting your cards beforehand . In some exotic countries you 'll only get them at main airport . ( btw . some banks/ATM operators charge fixed or minimum fee per transaction , so it 's better to make one bigger withdrawal , than a number of smaller ones ) . money exchange at your bank , i.e. withdrawing money from your account in other currency . Problem with that is , that it 's impractical to carry around large quantities of cash when you 're traveling . local money exchange , least favorable , but in really exotic countries that might be your only option . Especially when you 're in situation , that you 've run out of local currency and you 're not anywhere close to civilization . The exception are countries , where the money is not fully and freely interchangeable . In that case most often black-market exchange will give you much more than the official ones at banks . However , using black-market you 're exposing yourself to fraud .
I think the current usual solution is to get a debit card ( or failing that a credit card ) with low/no foreign transaction and cash withdrawl fees . ( In the UK , the Halifax Clarity Card is the best for this at the moment ) Then , when you get to the country , take out cash periodically . Not too much in case of issues , but do n't assume you can do it too often as you may not always be able to find a cash machine depending on where you are . It 's worth getting a little bit of currency before you go ( if you do n't have it left over from another trip ) , so you can buy a coffee while you wait for everyone who got off the plane quicker than you to finish using the cash machine at the port/airport/station ! Edit : Since you 've said you 're in the US , I ca n't suggest the best card for you to get to avoid/minimise foreign transaction fees , but asking on the <URL> is likely the best bet for finding out what that card is .
Technically no , practically speaking yes . Many of the coins look the same as US coins at a first glance , so careless clerks may accept them . I am in the US and often find myself with Canadian pennies and quarters which are very similar to the US counterparts . Having all the new coins in the US in recent years makes it even harder for people to tell the difference . Generally , vending machines will not accept them . It 's probably technically illegal to pass them off as US currency though , it might be classifiable as counterfeiting or fraud , but it happens all the time , intentional or not . EDIT : To summarize discussion in comments ... There may be stores near the border that officially accept CAD . That would be completely legitimate . I live in a border state but have never seen any . In all fairness I live 200 miles from the border but I do go near the border several times a year . I also have never specifically looked . It is probably limited to tourist locations . In reference to careless clerks , using CAD for an entire transaction is unlikely to work . 4 CAD quarters would be way less likely to work than 3 USD and 1 CAD . I 'm still skeptical on the vending machine front . I 've tried it without success and stopped trying , but maybe there are vending machines that would accept them . A whole discussion on how they work would probably be off-topic , but I think it has something to do with whether they detect a coin based on size or electrical resistance .
You are legally in the UK up to midnight of the expiry date of your visa . If the date is 15 Feb 2014 , for example , you have until midnight local time to leave . Just adding ... If something happens and you ca n't depart , you can soften the effect by reporting to the Border Force ( or in their absence , the police ) . An Immigration Officer is empowered under Paragraph 31 and 31/A to extend , but he does n't have to if he does n't want to . The police will slag you off , but at least you tried . So it 's midnight of the expiry date . Adding : For those interested in the ' grace period ' , the formal penalties start to kick in at 28 days . Those are absolute and enforceable bans against entry . But even for a time shorter than that , a subsequent application to renew or get a new work permit will be invariably refused on credibility grounds .
end question
start question
Is 2hr25 sufficient for switching from an international flight ( EWR Term . B ) to a domestic flight ( EWR Term C ) ?
Typically , 90 minutes for immigration at EWR is quite safe . To be on the safer side , ensure that you queue up soon after you exit the aircraft . Your seat position will also effect where in the queue you end up . Try , if possible , to get a seat towards the front of the aircraft ( numerically lower seat numbers ) . Also , at 1400 hrs not all counters will be open . This may delay immigration a bit . Of course , it also depends on whether someone ahead of you has an immigration issue and holds a counter busy . With regard to the second part , make sure you actually can check in till 1600 for a 1630 flight .
No , you should not have to re-apply . From the <URL> Website : Your ESTA authorization is generally valid for multiple trips over a period of two years ( starting the date that you are approved ) or until your passport expires , whichever comes first * . This means that as long as you received an ESTA authorization to travel , you do not have to reapply during the validity period . If you are concerned , and assuming you will exit immigration and stay in the US before boarding your connecting flight , you can retrieve your application to check it 's validity and update your US address if necessary <URL> .
Use <URL> to buy tickets online . This service supports payment by Visa and MasterCard . Also you may use Maestro card . As alternative , you always may buy tickets directly in airport . There are <URL> inside International Airport of Cancun . But remember to buy ticket at least 4-5 days before the flight . When you buy ticket on the same date - it costs much more .
If you are flying with Jet Airways , Air Vistara or Air India only you will land on international airport in Mumbai . For rest you have to take the Bus internally .
They are unusual in the West , but there are some airlines that offer cheaper seats when booking for multiple people . In particular , Singapore Airlines and Cathay Pacific both offer " GV2 " and " GV4 " fares , available only to groups of 2 or 4 passengers respectively . For example , in <URL> , the single passenger price for a Singapore-Chennai/Kolkata return is S$ 700 , while the GV2 fare is $ 600 and the GV4 fare is only $ 500 . These show up automatically when booking online for the appropriate number of people , no travel agent needed . Of course , even in SQ 's case , these fares are not offered on all routes or all flights . When they 're not , you may still be better off following Alessandro 's suggestion and booking separately to get the best possible fare classes . And before you ask , despite living in Singapore for > 7 years , I was never able to figure out what " GV " stands for ! Probably " Great Value " or something equally naff .
As a UK citizen and a visitor , you 're required to obtain an electronic <URL> that allows you 90 days in Turkey . This should largely cover the time of your stay , which you mentioned was a couple of weeks . Turkey defines work , the criteria for a work visa , as being a paid activity . It does n't have a specific <URL> visa , and you 'll note that <URL> visas require detailed documents about your payment , employer and specific <URL> requirements . So if you 're not being paid , that makes you ineligible for a work visa .
Any ticket you buy having used that search will be valid for that journey . In some cases this may mean you actually have to buy two ( or more ) tickets , because the " via " station would not normally be on a valid route . Note that if you purchase advance tickets , you are not allowed to leave the train ( or at least the stations ) except at the end points specified in the ticket .
Your compensation , if any , is governed by the <URL> you agreed to by purchasing the ticket , which in this case states ( emphasis added ) RESPONSIBILITY FOR SCHEDULES AND OPERATIONS American will endeavor to carry you and your baggage with reasonable dispatch , but times shown in timetables or elsewhere are not guaranteed and form no part of this contract . American may , without notice , substitute alternate carriers or aircraft and , if necessary , may alter or omit stopping places shown on the ticket . Schedules are subject to change without notice . American is not responsible for or liable for failure to make connections , or to operate any flight according to schedule , or for a change to the schedule of any flight . Under no circumstances shall American be liable for any special , incidental or consequential damages arising from the foregoing . In the absence of any superseding regulation or legislation -- of which there is none , as the origin and connection are both in the U.S. , which <URL> -- American is not required to give you anything . Despite the new routing , they still fulfill their fundamental obligation , which is to transport you from city A to city B . At best , you could request a refund for the ticket -- though this would necessitate purchasing a new one , which being closer to departure is more likely to be more expensive . If you are an elite frequent flyer with them or on one of the more expensive fares , they may be willing to give you some miles or other token gestures for the inconvenience , but purely in the name of customer relations . Some version of this paragraph is included in most airlines ' contract of carriage . The airline is similarly under no legal obligation to compensate you , notably , for switching a nonstop flight to a connecting flight , a frequent complaint . The same goes for equipment changes -- you may have purchased a ticket expecting a widebody in a three-class international configuration , but have no recourse if it gets swapped for a one-class turboprop at the last minute .
From <URL> ( same article as <URL> ) : <URL> - <URL> ( <URL> ) flight number : LOG 313 , 2.7 km ( 1.7 miles ) 02 min , aircraft : <URL> , first flight - 3 February 2004 It is obvious from that list that the best option is try searching near the islands . Second place is for the <URL> ( from St. Kitts to Nevis ) . Update : <URL> ( with video ) ! Update by Rory Alsop : Flight by my father , Capt. Andy Alsop <URL> , and then reduced by him to 58 seconds ! Screenshot of the page linked above ( from <URL> ) , as it may not be viewable to everyone : You can fly this on a <URL>
You 're unlikely to have much issue with the carry-on limitations with just one or two small items held in your hands . A cell phone and pair of earphones in your pocket certainly does n't count toward carry-on baggage limits . The bigger issue is the need to secure items in the cabin for takeoff and landing . Many airlines ( particularly US airlines in my experience ) will instruct passengers to stow laptops at this time ( as they can become dangerous projectiles in case of an emergency ) and specifically state that a seatback pocket is not an acceptable place to store a laptop . Many new seat designs have done away with seatback pockets all together as well . Laptops must be stored under the seat in front of you or in the overhead bin . These are not places I would want to leave a bare laptop ( laptops will slide on the plane 's carpet ) . As such , I 'd highly recommend at least a small inexpensive <URL> to protect your MacBook . At security , customs , and immigration , one issue is just physically handling your items ; navigating an airport with a bare laptop in hand is somewhat inconvenient ( how would you hang on to it while you went to the bathroom for instance ? ) and makes it easy to accidentally lose something . Quickly handing over your ID and scanning your boarding pass is difficult to do one-handed , and carrying a tray of food while trying to hold your laptop in your armpit can quickly become precarious . Furthermore , security officials are trained to be suspicious of people who do not fit into the normal pattern of travelers , and someone who has no bag and chooses to carry a laptop in his hands is at least a little unusual . It 's not that you would n't be allowed to travel , but an immigration officer might ask you more questions . At a minimum , the items would need to come out of your pockets at airport security . Beyond that , there are some additional items I like to carry with me when I travel even if I am checking the bulk of my luggage . Medications , if you take any , should never be checked , as you would have a problem on your hands if your bags are delayed or lost . A change of underwear and a spare t-shirt are a nice backup in cast of lost luggage too , and I generally want basic toiletries for long flights . On a long flight , it 's nice to be able to take keys and such out of my pockets for a little more comfort . All those things go inside my bag . Finally , where 's the charger for your MacBook in all this ? In short , while this can work , I ca n't really understand why you want to do this . There 's a reason you do n't see people clutching laptops in airports ; a small bag or laptop case is the simplest way to carry and protect your items . Most travelers have realized this and so bring one along . How is not using a bag more convenient ?
Yes , you need to collect and re-check . I 've done this many times at Auckland . The reason is immigration and customs is only at the Auckland international terminal . NZ has strict controls on luggage - and will xray and scan them for food , wood , and many other restricted items . You need to be with your luggage when this happens . If they checked it through for your domestic flight , then it would n't go through customs . Once you 're through with your luggage into actual NZ , it 's actually about a 1.2 km ( from memory ) walk , or a free shuttle ride to the domestic terminal , where you 'll get your flight to Queenstown . When flying to Queenstown , if you can , <URL> - the view is spectacular .
Consider one of the nearby hotels . Parking is available at all 3 terminals at Charles de Gaulle . Long term rates are 22 $ per day up to eight days and more expensive with a longer stay . This is presumably what you 've seen , and certainly for two weeks , that 'll hurt . If you are planning a longer stay it may be advisable to park at one of the nearby hotels who offer great deals on park and stay : these include the Hilton , Novotel , Ibis , Prestige , and Sofitel .
Your best source of information on this is the airline , who would n't sell you the ticket if they thought you could n't make the connection . But some extra information to reassure you : you do not have to change terminals you may not have to go through customs at all - for some flights you can stay airside and go through a much simpler process you may or may not have to re-clear security , but the longest security line I have ever waited in at YYZ was 30 minutes your bags will be checked through so you do n't need to wait to get those If you stay airside with no need to clear customs or security , and your first flight is on time , you will probably spend 90 minutes sitting at the gate wondering if you should go shopping in the terminal . And even if you need 30 min for security , 30 min for customs ( both estimates are probably double or triple what you really need ) and your flight is 30 min late , you 'll still make it . ( I 've never changed planes in YYZ . But I have landed there from international flights , and left from there for international flights , many many times . )
Shortest flight is direct one , operated by KLM . It 's 12 hours . And it is n't cheap , standard price currently stands around 1300 $ for return ticket ( AMS - > LIM - > AMS ) , and if you 're very specific on dates it might be even more . Alternatives with one stop over : Delta ( via Atlanta ) , Air Europa ( via Madrid ) . It 's might be slightly cheaper ( 1000 $ -1200 $ ) , but instead of 12 hours , that would be more like 20-30 hours .
The answer depends very much on your degree of risk aversion , and on how much of your " like to be early " buffer you are willing to lose to traffic or other delays en route . As Michael Hampton noted in a comment , the drive is almost entirely motorway , so depending on your driving habits and the traffic , you might be able to average 75 miles an hour ( 120 km/h ) or you might not do better than 45 ( 72 km/h ) . So I 'd probably allow six hours of driving time , plus time for breaks to refuel and whatnot . If you are willing to arrive at 5:30 if the traffic is heavy , you could probably get away with leaving at 11:30 . But if you are not , and being there at 4 is truly important to you , you should leave at least by 10 , and if you are strongly averse to risk and/or the stress of worrying whether you 'll make it , you might want to leave closer to 9 . Traffic on I-95 in Connecticut can be truly horrendous . It once took me something like 6 hours just to drive from Manhattan to New Haven , about 75 miles ( 120 km ) , but that was the Sunday after Thanksgiving and there was a particularly nasty accident on I-95 . I was also on the road once immediately after <URL> , but I was not driving and I did not note the precise duration of the trip . Horrific anomalies aside , I would leave more time if it is Sunday or Friday ; three hours from New Haven to New York would n't be terribly surprising . You might give yourself some flexibility by planning to take a little detour for a nice lunch or something like that , somewhere closer to the airport . If the traffic turns out to be bad , you can cut that short , or skip it altogether and go straight to the airport .
As a flight attendant for years , NO , no one tips flight attendants . Flight attendants are usually paid very well , and in some cases , very very well . They are usually paid per hour in addition to a basic salary and many bonuses for having layovers out of town and other stuff . Tipping them would be considered offensive and an insult in most airlines anyway . Knowing many other flight attendants from many airlines around the world I can assure you that the tipping topic is always a source of amusement when we share stories about that . If you want an alternative for tipping them , then a commendation letter or if the airline sends a survey after the flight to your email then give some good comments and mention the flight attendant 's name . Another way of tipping them , is using the magic words and asking less :) This is how flight attendants are tipped .
It 's because China manages its air traffic by routing flights along relatively narrow air corridors . For a discussion , see <URL> .
Spain is a Schengen treaty country , so you will need a Schengen visa : Holders of a Vietnamese passport require a visa for the " Schengen States " . <URL> The cost for all temporary visas is 60 EUR , and you also need insurance and a lot of documentation . If your summer school regularly takes in foreign visitors , they should already know what visa you need and how to apply for it , so talk to them first .
Some friends and I did some searching , asking at cycling shops , etc , and could not find anyone who rents bicycles . So I followed @Berhard 's advice and bought a used one for R$ 160 ( ~ US$ 72 ) and will either sell or give it away when I leave .
There are three common situations : The country you are departing has outbound passport control Once you cross the line you have officially left the country as far as immigration is concerned . You must pass through immigration to exit this area back to the public spaces . In some cases , like Vancouver , it 's not really " passport control " . It 's just a guy who checks your boarding pass and tells you that you can not return this way ( he has no authority other than calling someone else who does ) . But it 's effectively the same thing . Canadian immigration gets passenger lists from the airlines and does n't bother you on the way out . The country you are traveling to has remote pre-clearance . The USA does this from Canada and Shannon , Ireland . Once you cross the line you have officially departed the current country and entered the destination country as far as immigration is concerned . You may travel directly to your destination , usually without any further interactions of any kind with immigration or airport security ( rather dependent on the gate arrangements at transfer airports ) . The country you are departing does not have outbound passport control Or at least not at this departure point . You mix with other international and domestic travelers and board your departing vessel . You are considered to have departed when you pass the boarding gate . Note the repeated use of " as far as immigration is concerned " and " considered to have departed " . The departure lounge is not an embassy , it is still the sovereign soil of the departure country and if the local police want you for anything they will just walk in and grab you . If the American pre-clearance staff object they will be bluntly told to shut up and get out of the way or get arrested themselves for obstruction ( pre-clearance staff are not diplomats ) . In all the above cases , once you are " considered to have departed " you have met any immigration limits you may have . If you do this one minute before midnight on the day your visa expires you will not be considered to be overstaying . If your flight/ship/bus / train is cancelled you will usually get a short-term readmission as you did " leave " and the fact that you are still here is beyond your control . if immigration really wants you to leave you might even get a free hotel room for the night . Flights in the Schengen zone are considered to be domestic flights - there is no passport control . Tax easements ( duty-free shopping ) have more to do with your intentions than position within the airport . I 've been to airports where the duty-free shops are in the public spaces . You show your boarding pass , buy what you want , and it 's delivered to your departure gate ( which also nicely bypasses security ) . If you do n't have a suitable boarding pass you simply pay the tax-in price . If the airport construction allows it ( Heathrow for example ) transiting passengers remain in the international area and have no interactions with immigration . This is purely a convenience and cost-saving measure . If you are wanted by the police for something serious they can and will arrest you in the international concourse . If , in this example , the UK does not wish to admit you for any reason you are fine here as you do not officially enter the UK . Passengers transiting between airports ( Heathrow - > Gatwick happens a lot ) DO require admission to the UK , which is occasionally denied . This means you go back to your departure point rather than your destination . Legal rights of the departure country extend up to the time the airplane 's wheels leave the ground ( not sure about ships ) . If you punch out the cabin crew while taxiing to the runway , the local police will be called . Do it after takeoff and it 's really the pilot 's choice to return and land or fly to the destination - legal authority passes to the air carrier 's country of registration after takeoff but the pilot can choose to accept the local authorities rather than carry a problem for 10 hours . If the departure country 's authorities decide they want to invite you in for tea and biscuits after takeoff , they can request that the airplane return or land at another airport in the same country . If the pilot refuses they either let you go or shoot the plane down .
end question
start question
Is it better to book a car rental in advance , or once I 'm in South Africa ?
It is definitely better to book a car in advance , even in lower season . I would not take the risk of arriving there and not finding a suitable car . Moreover , when you book your car at home you can rent it through a broker . This way you will get a good price . And I have some doubts that you will find a better deal by pounding the rental desks at O.R. Tambo airport .
In my experience of travelling to the USA on an ESTA Visa from Europe you are asked you to write the address that you will be staying your first night in the USA , be it a hotel , friends house or family residence on the customs and border protection form . The immigration officer asks to see this form and stamps it . You are then let into the country and hand this form to an official before you exit the baggage hall . How much checking of that address they do , or even if it is recorded , I do not know . I get this address wrong most of the time anyway and I have never had any trouble . I imagine if this is left blank and you are asked and reply you do not know where you are staying then alarm bells will begin to ring for for the immigration officer . Even if you are travelling around America by rental car it would probably be best to have a pre-booked hotel for one night after a long haul flight anyway . Safety first !
As @Dirty - flow said , sleeping in the car is allowed , but you should not sleep in the driver 's seat etc. if you are drunk , to omit being fined for drunk driving . There are many areas , especially inside of the " Mittlerer Ring " , where parking is restricted ( residents only or parking ticket , see <URL> or <URL> ) . I 'd suggest to park somewhere in the outskirts , near a <URL> station , and use public transport . <URL> , for example , has a nice lake you can swim in ( " Erholungsgebiet Heimstettener See " ) . Update : Sleeping in a caravan in the city of Munich is forbidden : <URL> ( They <URL> parking at the Messe in Riem , 35 Eur per night . ) Feldkirchen should be OK . Also note : You need a <URL> for your car ( " Umweltplakette " ) if you want to drive inside of " Mittlerer Ring " .
There is no need to book anything in advance here . Go to the station , buy a ticket and take the train . After checking at <URL> , it seems that the trains from Interlaken to Grindelwald and Lauterbrunnen are not included in the pass . There is no cable car to the Jungfraujoch . You have to take a train from Grindelwald or Wengen to the <URL> station . From there you proceed by a second train to the so-called top of Europe . Both these trains are <URL> . Maybe the author of the " Rough Guide " was a bit imprecise on that ... Note that the Jungfrau railway is not included either in your Interrail pass .
Chesterfield appears not to have much in the way of car rental agencies . That aside , here 's a comparison of various towns dotted outside the Peak District : Since it looks like a car rental agency can always be found within 10 minutes of walking or public transport from the train station , Derby looks to be the winner as it 's both easily reached by train and less than an hour 's drive from the centre of the Peak District . I 'm open to running numbers on other locations if suggested . These are just culled from scouting around the surrounds of the Peak District on Google Maps .
There are trains between these stations once in every two to three hours.You can show up at the railway station and get a ticket . Buses are more frequent and I would suggest that since the journey is not long .
Rental prices are not designed for periods of more than a few days . It might be possible to negotiate a long-term price at a flexible rental business . It 's definitely possible to get a decent used bike for 50-100 EUR . There 's a risk that it could be a stolen one , but almost none of running into problems , even if it is . I 'm pretty sure that shipping a bike from Germany to Egypt and back will cost more than 100 EUR .
2 weeks ago I had a guest who stayed in one of my airbnb apartments for 8 days . Before coming here , she told me that she was expecting a package from a company called <URL> . When I checked their website , I found out that they provide unlimited wifi which can be connected by 10 different devices and the rental fee per day is $ 5 . Although I have WiFi in my apartment , this dongle is for those who need mobile internet outside of hotel/airbnb . Also they have some additional services such as transportation card , museum tickets , and airport transfer . I was surprised that I havent heard about Alldaywifi before . After a little research I noticed there are <URL> doing the same thing in Turkey . My guest gave me the kit when she checked out and told me that they will come to get the device back . She also told me that she has a 10 % discount code that can be used for 3 times within 6 months . So , if anyone here plans to visit Turkey and rent an Alldaywifi unit , you can use her code 00ee8fc2
There are a lot of hotels in Bali and Lombok , so I think you will be fine without booking in advance . However , I would recommend that you do otherwise , unless you 're willing to take the first hotel you see . I once did this in Jogjakarta ( no booking ) and wo n't do it again . It 's a waste of time , going from one hotel to another to find the best price . Searching online is more comfortable . You get to see pictures and read reviews from other people . Not all hotels are advertised online though ( especially the cheap ones ) , but within your budget , you should get quite a lot of options in internet . As Willeke pointed out , there are rooms with no or low cancellation cost ( until a couple of days before arrival ) . I went to Lombok and Sumbawa last January and booked all hotels in advance . UPDATE I read the other answer and decided to put my comment here . Pictures can be different , that 's why I recommend to book only from trustworthy websites and always read the reviews . If there is no review yet , google it . If you do n't book in advance , always ask to see the room first before paying , especially if the hotel is small . Yes , ripping off happens , even to me as an Indonesian . Try to get an idea of the ideal price before doing anything . Be careful and I hope you enjoy your trip !
I 'm not going to try and answer this any better then <URL> . The gist of the story is basically that car rental companies are getting at least some money from their fleet even if you cancel or do n't show up . From what I just gathered on Avis the cancellation fees are $ 25.00 if you do it more then 6 hours before or $ 100 if you are a No Show or doing it less then 6 hours before the pick-up time . The article also mentions that there are potential discounts that you could be missing out on once you prepay .
Personally I 'd try and do what the locals do , and use their transport - it 'll be more fun and you 'll meet people that you would n't get to if you were driving your own car . Plus you wo n't get lost , and you 'll be able to look around and enjoy what you 're seeing . According to perennial favourite <URL> , vans ( or L3s as they are called there ) cost about 80 pesos per person from Caticlan to Kalibo and they take approximately 45 minutes to 1 hour . Look for an air conditioned van ( which might come at a slightly inflated price of 10 to 20 pesos more per person ) . That gives you a rough price guide at least to bargain for - I suspect you may have to come prepared to negotiate ;) There 's also Jeepneys - a Jeepney to Kalibo from Caticlan takes about 1 to 1.5 hours and will cost you about 45 Pesos . Find them at Jeepney-Php 45 , FX Taxi - Php 90 , Terminal Roxas Ave. Street Kalibo , or use the Aklan Shuttle Bus-Php 100 up , Terminal Airport And what sounds the most fun to me : Motorized tricycles will take you just about anywhere in Kalibo for a standard rate of 6.50 Pesos ( 6 Pesos 50 Centavos ) . Foreigners are commonly asked for much higher rates but the drivers must accept the 6.50 peso rate by law .
Yes , it is acceptable . However , it is etiquette that if the baby does start to make noise that you take it to the " deck " area beyond the doors ( where the bathrooms , telephone , vending machines , etc. ) are . This is the same protocol if you have to make or receive a telephone call , want to have a loud conversation with your seatmate , or do anything that might disturb other passengers . I should note that this has nothing to do with the green car -- the main cars nominally operate under these protocols , it 's just that the other passengers ( and conductors ) are less likely to enforce them .
Hotels usually have a full legally regulated rate ( the one posted on the inside of the door inside the room ) , a walk in rate ( what they charge if you just show up ) and an advance booking rate . The full rate that is posted is usually equal to the walk in rate during peak season and , with the exception of a holiday surcharge ( NYE , Xmas , etc ) , is the highest amount they can legally charge for that room . The walk in rate varies depending on the season , during shoulder season in Hawai'i it could be quite a bit lower than during peak summer season . While this rate is usually a set amount , most front desks have some leeway to discount that rate if the hotel has low occupancy . The discounted rates offered by the hotel for advance bookings through its own website vs the rates offered through OTAs , like Agoda or Expedia , etc are becoming more equal as time goes by . The primary advantage of OTAs is being able to look at multiple options on one page AND since OTAs have blocks of rooms they committed to , they will offer the same discounted rate right up to check in day . Hawai'i is busy but not totally sold out , with the exception of the peak seasons , you can find rooms available in most areas upon arrival . And even during peak summer and the new year period , there will be some room to be had somewhere . Personally I would book my first stay before leaving for the islands , just for the ease of arriving and relaxing instead of hunting down rooms . Then as you piece together your next location , get online with the OTAs booking.com , hotels.com , agoda.com etc and see what they have available . If rooms are available you can book them right up until you arrive at the hotel . You can also use the price the OTAs quote as bargaining material if you want to walk in and book direct with the hotel . And if you spot a really cool hotel while wandering around but the front desk tells you they have no rooms , check with the OTAs as they may have space in their blocks still , which the front desk ca n't access to sell direct .
Here 's my take , which is n't actually based on anything empirical as much as about a decade living on the East Coast : If you 're along the Acela corridor , served by the Acela Express and the Northeast Regional lines , your best bet is probably the train . This is rooted by two experiences : Boston Logan is built out in what is essentially the Atlantic Ocean . It also has delays and closures at the drop of a hat . I hated flying out of Logan in the winter . During the massive snow emergency last year ( Winter 2010 ) in the Eastern U.S. , the trains kept running long after the airports shut down . One train I was on was indeed crowded with people from canceled airline flights trying to make it to their destinations , and it was so apparent that Amtrak actually ran a print ad campaign in some East Coast cities about it .
I doubt it will change much , driving will still be faster . Based on a <URL> , we find out that it currently takes up to 7 hours by car , while it takes 9 hours by train , through Austria . The Gotthard tunnel is located in Switzerland , and while its goal is to <URL> , there is no fast train route between Munich and Zurich . What is interesting to notice is that on the map , by drawing a straight line between Munich and Genoa , it does not go through Switzerland ( or only along its eastern border ) . So going by train through the Gotthard tunnel will likely not help . If we still try to estimate the time it takes between the two cities with the estimate given in the first article , going between Munich and Zurich currently takes at least 3h40 according to the <URL> in a bus ( ! ) , then say 2h40 to Milano , and finally with the Google Maps search we found that the train between Milano and Genoa takes 1h45 . By adding up all of them , we still find 8 hours . In the end , even if somehow the Deutsche Bahn or the SBB decided to run a train all the way from Munich to Milano/Genoa , the total time it takes will probably not beat the driving time . So unfortunately there will be no change in the hierarchy of faster transportation , driving will still be faster .
In general , you need a visa as an Indonesian passport holder . The only exemption , which applies to you , is where you have a re-entry visa and a travel plan including travel tickets to a country like the USA or Canada . If you have a re-entry visa to the US , and you do not plan to stay in Korea longer than 30 days , you can enter <URL> , bound for the USA as a holder of a re-entry visa to the USA .
According to Timatic ( the source used by most airlines ) , YES , a US citizen visiting South Africa DOES require an onward ticket , although there is an alternative . This is the relevant section : R38 ) Ticket ... . Immigration authorities may request visitors and transit passengers to prove that they will depart from the country within the prescribed period , by showing a return or onward ticket to their next international destination . Unless stated otherwise , return/onward ticket is defined as : a. International airline ticket ( i.e. any types of airline tickets , reservation confirmation , booking code etc. ) ; or b. Evidence of departing from the country by other means of transportation ( e.g. confirmation of joining a cruise , train , bus or ferry tickets , proof of departing by private boat or plane , etc ) . Technically there is a provision for visitors arriving without a return ticket , which is : Warning : - Visitors arriving without a return or onward ticket will be required to pay a refundable deposit in lieu of ticket . Failure or inability to pay this deposit will result in refusal of entry . There is no mention of how much the refundable deposit is , or how it must be paid . In general , your airline will confirm that you have an onward ticket before you board your flight , and it is possible that they will not consider the deposit clause when refusing you access , so it may not be a good idea to rely on that if possible . You may be able to work around this by purchasing a fully refundable ticket for the return , and then cashing it in once you have arrived in the country . If you are caught doing this you can expect to be immediatley deported - but realistically the odds of that happening are small . If you have frequent flyer miles , it 's worth checking if you can use them for such a flight - even if there is a fee for canceling , it 's frequently less than for a normal ticket , and you wo n't have to tie up your money in order to buy a full fare/refundable ticket . South Africa also requires that : Visitors are required to hold proof of sufficient funds to cover their stay and documents required for their next destination . So if you book your onward ticket to a country other than the US , make sure that you have the required documents for that country as well !
I live in Turkey and travel to Bulgaria regularly . ( ~ 20 times now ) . My general idea would be that this might be easier to find in Bulgaria as long as you were in one of the major cities . Turkey does n't seem to have this stuff just anywhere . That being said , it 's cheap-ish generic gear can be found at some major markets in Turkey , so I 'd be inclined to hit up a few stores and pick something up before I hit the road .
If I buy a standard ticket , do I have to specify a date or even a time when I want to visit it ? Yes you have to specify both date and one of the 30 minutes time slots . You have to stick to the time slot you booked , you 'd better not be late . Buy it online to get the discount . Standard ticket or fast track ? Standard ticket by all means . In 2010 , during the festive period of Christmas/New Year 's Eve the queue was only 20 people long when I took the ride . It is not worth buying the fast track , even if it is pouring down or whatever . The " London Eye View 360º " on its own costs 1 GBP , you can buy it separately ( it 's included in the fast track price ) . Source : own experience
<URL> it 's rare to get automatic transmissions in Brazil , or that when the companies do have them , they 're regularly more expensive . Your best bet is to contact the company before you get to Brazil ( from comments of yours on other questions I gather you 've booked through Modiva ) , and find out if you can reserve one . I suspect they 'll be getting similar questions from others , especially from the US , so should be able to clarify .
end question
start question
Am I expected to tip for room service on top of the Service and delivery fee ?
In general if there is a " Service Fee " , then this is the same thing as a tip . This is not the same as a " Room Service Fee " , which is NOT the same as a tip . Generally a " service fee " will be a percentage of the total , normally around 15-20 % , whereas the " Room Service Fee " ( sometimes referred to as a plate fee , a tray fee , delivery fee or something similar ) is normally a fixed fee in the $ 3-6 range . Frequently the room service menu will actually describe the various fees , and will include details such as that the service fee is " distributed to the staff " , or similar - which is your indication that it is a tip . Normally there will still be a line on the receipt for an additional tip . This is NOT mandatory , and is generally NOT expected . If the server has done something extraordinary for you then you have the option to add an additional tip .
Short summary of the caveats/issues mentioned thus far in the comments and answers : Individual checked item and overall baggage weight limits . Individual checked item and overall baggage dimension &amp; volume limits . Costs might be higher than they appear : Airline costs per extra luggage item may rise with the number of items . General charge for having extra baggage . The airline might not actually mean what their website says . Handling all those pieces of luggage at the airport . Transporting the luggage to and from the airport : Another person 's help may be necessary . A larger vehicle may be necessary . Customs : Need to declare and prove you 're moving to another country and transporting your personal affects . The need for 10 suitable containers for luggage ; if not suitcases , then need to check whether the airline is willing to carry cardboard boxes , thick garbage-style plastic bags etc. . Baggage might get wet ( <URL> )
I 'm in Istanbul right now , and when I got here I asked a friend who has been here before . According to her , no , it 's not required , but is always welcome . I have not got any noticeable negative reactions over the past week from not tipping , and very gracious thanks when I have done so , but I 'm still new to the country and may have trouble ' reading ' people if they are being polite when I have n't tipped . Usually it 's been when I have n't liked the service or felt it was already very overpriced for what was offered - not unusual in extremely touristy restaurants , for example , which you may want to avoid . Corrections welcome from native Turks , of course :) I just got a bill a minute ago for 18 lira for a coffee and two beers , and paid with a 20 lira note and no change . 2 lira = 1 dollar US/CA/AU - honestly , at that amount , it barely matters .
According to the <URL> , there is a cable car operating from Chamonix to Aiguille du Midi almost all year around ( except for 11/4-12 / 20 ) . The return-trip would cost you 55 euro 's .
In my experience there are two situations where people tend to get on the wrong side of the road : After stopping for whatever reason . If you 're thinking about something else when you get back in your car and start driving , you can very easily do the wrong thing based on your usual driving side . Visualise how you 're going to start out ( enter the street ) before you start driving . When transitioning from a narrow ( perhaps a winding mountain ) road to a wider one . This is particularly important if you are in an area with one lane bridges . Here in New Zealand , the road is often marked with a forward arrow in the correct ( left ) lane when the two lane road resumes . It is also helpful to have somebody else in the car who is paying attention to your driving and can let you know if you 're doing ( or about to do ) something wrong . Another pair of eyes definitely helps . For lane changing , well I 've never driven in India so all I know is what I 've seen in pictures and videos . I understand the concept of " lanes " is not widespread . In the US , generally you can change lanes whenever there is a broken white line between the lanes ( assuming both lanes are in the same travel direction ) . Signal your intention to change at least a couple of seconds in advance . Do n't change lanes while going through an intersection . There are likely many online driving tests for any particular US state that you intend to drive in . It might be helpful to run through some practice tests if you are unsure what you need to know . Most rules are the same throughout the country , but some states have particular rules you may need to know ( rules that often vary are things like U-turns and right turns on red ) .
Unfortunately " No need for Japan resident card " and " Japan phone number " ( along with voice and SMS ) are not compatible . Non-residents are n't able to buy voice SIMs . B-Mobile appears to be the best option in most cases . There 's some info in English at <URL> that looks to be up to date . There are no high-speed unlimited options but the Chamelon SIM is available in LTE and goes up to 5gb/month . Nano SIMs only appear to be available on the visitor plans . Since you wo n't have voice , Wimax is another option . It 'll require carrying another device , but their current Wifi router is about the same size as a stack of 6 credit cards . Data is unlimited and speed is claimed to be up to 40mbit . Buying the router probably makes this less economical than a data SIM for less than 12 months .
Here are <URL> that you mentioned . Okay , there are different kinds of accommodation in India and not every place is the same . If you are thinking of going to aforementioned hotel , you most likely wo n't be able to get the price down by haggling , only if you have a discount card or something . Besides , for such a hotel , the price seems pretty fair considering you 're traveling there in November which is considered high season . Also , as Paola mentioned , it 's kinda hard to haggle through electronic media ( not that it ca n't be done ) . On the other hand , if you do want to haggle , choose guesthouses . There are budget ones , that you probably wo n't like ( since you chose that hotel ) , mid-range guesthouses and premium , heritage guesthouses ( that have a five-star-hotel price range ) . In budget ones you can easily get a discount if you do n't mind using some tricks mentioned in the answer to the <URL> . I even got price down from 450 rupees to only 300 rupees and I stayed there just for three nights . You usually wo n't be able to get the price down too much if you plan on staying for a short amount of time . But if you have an itinerary that gets you back to the same city , try and explain that to the manager and tell them that you 'll be staying there again if he gets the price down ; be creative . For mid-range guesthouses , you can usually get a bargain if they have a couple of rooms available . If not , you 'll either have to pay the full price or get a discount from 1500 to 1400 rupees per night . You 'd have to be pretty good with haggling to get a better deal . And I believe that I do n't have to explain that there is no haggling in heritage guesthouses . If you had to haggle , you would n't be staying at such a place . The better the accommodation is ( and more expensive ) , the lesser is the chance to haggle . But you can always try and ask about it and see where it takes you . ( One more thing , not really relevant , but once I managed to get a huge ( and I do mean huge ) discount in the <URL> in Jodhpur just by explaining my situation , asking for a deal and by having luck on my side that time . )
I actually do n't think that driving lessons would help you . The cheapest trick is just to just do it . Thousands and thousands of drivers cross either the tunnel connecting the UK and France or the different ferries , daily . In both directions it seems to work out just fine . They only need to temporarly <URL> . In some countries with neighboring countries driving on opposite sides ( e.g. UK/France , Suriname/French-Guyana ) there will be signs reminding you on what side to drive , at least on the primary roads driving away from the border . source : <URL> The trick is to drive carefully and just follow the traffic and you will be fine . Problems arise when you are alone . At least with me especially on secluded scottish roads , it happened more then once that I ended up on the right side of the road , but still , when with enough caution I was always in time to correct . I also do n't drink at all when I am driving in the UK , although the UK is n't as strict in the amount of alcohol allowed as in other parts of Europe ( 0.08 % vs 0.05 % -0.02 % ) . With respect to the steering wheel or the pedals , those are the same no matter where you drive . In the beginning you might end up switching gear in the door or starting the windscreen wipers when changing lanes , but that is only sort of funny . The main advice is : source : <URL>
It should be no problem . The convenience store will have an arrangement with the bus company to receive their passengers . They know that a good portion of them will buy things , but there is no requirement for you to spend money there . Also keep in mind that at most of these stops , the buses will refuel . This means a portion of your ticket price actually is going to the gas station , so you are ( indirectly ) a customer anyway . Contrary to @Tom 's comment above , I have never seen a designated waiting area in such places in the US or Mexico . Perhaps Canada is different , but I would be surprised if they are different , unless there is a law mandating a designated waiting area for such passengers . If I were the owner of such a store , I would not want a designated waiting area . I would want the bored , waiting passengers to walk around my store , in hopes that they find something they want to buy -- as long as they are n't obstructing other customers .
Lots of reasons ! Most of which boil down to prioritizing time and convenience over cost . You need to fly to a city with no direct service . Most LCCs only sell " point to point " and will not cover missed connections , while full-service carriers do . You have an unpredictable schedule and need the ability to change your flights easily . LCCs tend to fly less frequently and charge large arbitrary fees for changes , while full-service carriers operate high frequencies on their core routes and offer " flex " fares that have a high up-front cost , but allow unlimited free changes afterwards . The low-cost carrier flies to some ridiculous airport in the middle of nowhere ( eg . " Frankfurt " - Hahn , 125 km away ) , while the full-service carrier flies directly to the main airport . It 's a long flight and you 're not willing to suffer for hours in a cramped seat . ( Personally , I 'll fly in a sardine can for up to four hours , but beyond that I 'll at least fork out for a better seat . ) It 's business travel and somebody else is paying . You want to collect frequent flyer points . ( See also # 5 . ) You 're already an elite frequent flyer and want to use your perks ( lounge access , priority boarding , etc. )
You can use any exchange rate service , but they like it if you use <URL> because they get trained on that one for T1 and T2 applications . Since Sterling is taking a caning right now , you would do a little better by picking today 's closing rate , 70p to the dollar and use it for all your evidence going back 3 to 6 months . For Naira that would be 35p per 100 Naira They are not going to make a big deal about it as long as you do n't go cherry picking through historical rates . The rate is not as important for visitor applications as it is for PBS and settlement applications . For representation , you can use the remarks section and add a statement like ... A Sterling conversion rate of xxxx has been used . This was the closing rate on xx/xx/xx per the internet Oanda service .
In practice , here is what you can do : Contact a consulate from your own country to get some travel document ( probably an emergency passport ) . Being in a foreign country without one is a perfectly valid reason for that ( even within Schengen ) . It will probably cost you some money and a bit of effort but it has worked for me before . Try your luck with the airline . Some of them like Ryanair are notorious for being picky about that but on some intra-Schengen flights you do n't have to show any ID . Even when an ID is in principle required and driver 's licenses are explicitly excluded , it 's possible to get lucky . This also worked for me before ( see below ) . Cancel your flight and travel back by train . There could still be a border check but it 's unlikely . Worse case scenario : You do get checked and the police/customs keep you for some time . You would still be better off than at the airport because you would already be in your country of residence and they should have means to verify your story . I have done that too , did see some border police officers but I was lucky enough not to be asked anything so I do n't know exactly what they would have done . On one occasion , I have been allowed to fly back home without passport/national ID but only a driver 's license and a few other things like an health insurance card . On their own , these documents prove nothing but they were helpful to convince the gate personnel that I was a resident of the destination country . They were very understanding and let me board the flight , stressing that they only did it because it was a Schengen flight . In summary : I would definitely contact the nearest consulate as soon as possible and consider changing plans but if that 's not possible , do try to board your return flight . Be upfront and honest , you could get lucky .
Are your tickets separate or one booking ? If they are two different tickets , then the Passenger Service Charge applies because you are technically / legally originating from Bangkok for the second one . The fact that you arrived in Bangkok only 12 hours earlier and did not leave the transit lounge does not negate this aspect . If you have a single ticket and Bangkok is just a layover , then the airline should not have charged the fee and you need to contact them about refunding the incorrect charge .
The best way to get cell phone service throughout Southeast Asia is to buy a SIM card in each country ; probably at the airport when you land . You can buy a SIM at most international airports with minimal wait . Less than $ 20.00 US will usually last you for a week ( voice , data , SMS , and tethering ) . The greatest overhead will be for them to potentially copy your passport . I 've found this to be reasonably efficient ; the cost of obtaining a SIM is easily outweighed by the benefit of having a fully functional smartphone . Furthermore , you have the experts there who usually have a decent command of English . I do n't leave the stand until I am able to browse a website . Like any system , the more familiar you are with it the easier it is to work with .
This seems to be in violation of their stated policy . See <URL> which for " international to USA " states " Please note that your bags will be automatically transferred to your connecting flight . "
Wow , interesting question . Nature-wise there 's SO much to see in Ireland - Cliffs of Moher , Giant 's Causeway , the Dingle Peninsula . There 's sights from Blarney Castle to the amazing history and sights of Belfast . However , if you 're after things specifically that children may enjoy - ' history ' stuff is probably out ;) I 'd suggest the following to include in your itinerary : 1 ) Dingle Peninsula - as well as being a beautiful place and a charming town , you can look for Fungie , Dingle 's resident dolphin . And if you ca n't find him , his statue is down by the boats as well :) 2 ) Giant 's Causeway - a spectacular place with over 40,000 columns of basalt rock , it 'd be fun for kids to climb all over as well . 3 ) The Exploris Aquarium in Northern Ireland : <URL> 4 ) Belfast - the night-time Black Cab tours - sure the history wo n't mean much to the kids , but Black Cabs can be a fun and different vehicle to ride in . And it 's a brilliant tour for adults ! 5 ) Blarney Castle - castles are fun for everyone , and you get to hang off the top and kiss the Blarney stone ! ;) 6 ) The Cliffs of Moher ca n't be skipped - absolutely spectacular ! Plus when you see the Cliffs of Insanity in The Princess Bride , you 'll be able to say you 've been there :) Finally if you 're after some places to eat and stay that are kids friendly : <URL>
While I could n't find anything that pertains strictly to FedEx , I found <URL> website which offers a similar service . Their terms seem to answers your questions . The luggage would go through customs just like any package being sent through the mail would be . Having the contents packed into a suitcase instead of a cardboard box makes little difference to them when screening . There would be no way to avoid a fee . Any fee incurred would be charged to you once your luggage arrives at it 's destination . Just like mailing a package , the customer must provide a list of everything contained in the suitcase . Any duties , taxes or other fees incurred during the customs inspection process will be passed on to the customer . To ensure an expedited customs clearance process and to minimize duties , taxes or other fees imposed by customs or similar authorities , customer is responsible for supplying Luggage Free ® with the complete contents of each Item in the shipment .
Deutsche post does n't offer such a service . Callshops and copyshops do offer sending a fax . A qiuck search in <URL> will show you some copyshops and almost all of them will also offer sending a fax . The price may vary from store to store . I found this <URL> of a copyshop in Berlin ( see page 13 ) . If you send a fax to a non European country it will cost 4 EUR for the first page and 1 EUR for each next page .
Actual practice varies widely by country , but there are ( at least ) four reasons why hotels frown on having more guests in a room than you originally told them . Fire code . Hotels and rooms are rated for maximum occupancy : if they get busted for having two people in a room for one , or ( worse ) 101 guests in a hotel rated for 100 , there are serious legal penalties ( for the hotel ) in many countries . Profit . A room for two usually costs more than a room for one , even when it 's actually the same physical room . If you sneak two people into your single room , they 've lost out on extra income , and obviously the beancounters do n't like this . Registration requirements . Many countries require that all foreign nationals staying in hotels have to be registered , and it may be a violation of the law to have unregistered guests . ( Not necessarily applicable if your newfound friend is a local , although a few particularly paranoid countries register all hotel guests . ) Laws prohibiting cohabitation . Not much of a problem in the West anymore , but in eg . much of the Middle East , having two unrelated and unsupervised people of the opposite sex in the same room may be a crime ( khalwat , " proximity " ) , even if you 're not getting down and dirty . The correct thing to do etiquettewise , then , is to book a room for two in advance , but unless you 're sure you 're getting lucky , this is often impractical . The practical ( but somewhat embarrassing ) thing to do is to request an upgrade at the counter , at which point they can also register your guest . In places like Thailand , where rent-a-dates and sex tourism is big business , hotels either impose " guest fees " for overnight visitors , or ( at the lower end ) explicitly market themselves a " guest-friendly " ; as far as I know , in Bangkok there 's <URL> which proclaims itself a " bastion of wholesome tourism " and bans overnight guests , and has achieved minor notoriety as a result ! But if you 're stuck in some Atlanta-like institution , eg . Japanese business hotels where " single " really means " single " and you 'd have to get another room , you could just do like us international uni students in the dorms did , and sneak your dates in via the fire escape , undetected by the beady eyes of the night security guard at the main entrance , and hope the good vibes balance out the bad karma . Or , if you 're not as skift as as exchange student and are actually in Japan ( or most anywhere in Asia , really ) , you could go rent a <URL> and get a circular bed , mirrors on the ceiling , and bondage Hello Kitty watching over you .
In the US hotels I stay in , room service dining typically includes a service charge and delivery charge with wording such as : All Room Service Orders are Subject to State and Local Taxes , a Delivery Charge of $ 3.50 , and a Service Charge of 22 % . The Service Charge Includes Gratuity . Being the USA , there will normally be an extra space for yet another tip . Feel free to draw a line through it .
end question
start question
Is it OK to take a disposable safety razor on a plane ?
Depends on the security measures of your departure airport . For example : <URL> All types of razor are prohibited . Therefore , passengers should not have any sharp objects with them or in their hand-carried baggage ( for example pocket knives , nail files , box cutters , razors , scissors , corkscrews , any sharp/pointed objects , etc. ) <URL> Plastic moulded razors are allowed , but razors that can be opened and razors with changeable blades are prohibited . I assume disposable razor = plastic moulded razor . Razors that have the blade set into a plastic moulding are allowed , but razors that can be opened and the razor blade removed are prohibited <URL> Disposable Razors ( including razor with removable razor blades/catridges ) are permitted . I believe the scissors you mentioned have length > than 4 inches , that 's why it was confiscated . Scissors - metal with pointed tips and blades shorter than four inches are permitted . Razor-Type Blades - such as box cutters , utility knives , and safety razor blades are not permitted . ( disposable razors and their cartridges are permitted ) My advice is to check the security section of your departure airport 's website .
The short answer is : depends . There are multiple discussions on <URL> regarding the subject . One from <URL> and another from <URL> . General consensus is that it is not possible with few exceptions : Accompanying live cargo Being an employee of the company flying the cargo In the remote areas like Alaska it may be possible to be flying a half and half plane . Half cargo - Half passenger . You are an airline crew member or a courier in that case you can request a <URL> ( maybe someone can enlighten me what Groom means here ) Save those you are likely to be denied access to the plane
Georgia 's Reforms Associates <URL> called FactCheck <URL> : Conclusion Our research has established that in Georgia certain professions have nationality restrictions due to national and public interests . In order to bring in a verdict , we must also take international experience into consideration . Both strict and lenient , there are certain restrictions and limitations in Europe , the US and CIS countries for granting a work permit to foreign citizens . There are , however , no such limitations in Georgia and any alien can start working in Georgia without any permission ( only a temporary residence permit is necessary after the visa has expired ) . Compared to the current situation , the initiated draft bill regulates the immigration policy of the country . Based upon the abovementioned , we conclude that the statement of Paata Kvizhinadze : " Any foreign citizen could work in our country without any restrictions or quotas . This practically never happens in Europe , the US or CIS countries , " is TRUE . Since the old law allowing for 360 days visas has been <URL> , it is highly likely that there are no employment restrictions for citizens of visa-on-arrival countries . The <URL> also fails to list any restrictions on people arriving to Georgia on tourist visas .
Go to the airport anyway . Most likely you will end up with a seat . If not , the airline will take care of you and get you to your destination on another flight . Some possible explanations : The flight is overbooked . If someone else fails to show up for the flight , you 'll have a seat . If not , they will offer incentives ( vouchers for future travel ) for someone to give up their seat and take a later flight . If nobody does , they will bump someone at random ( not necessarily you ) , give them compensation , and put them on a later flight . There are seats still available , but they want to save them for special customers ( elite-level frequent flyers , etc ) . Perhaps they are " premium " seats with extra legroom , exit rows , etc. . Right now these special customers have seats elsewhere on the plane . Sometime before departure , the airline will upgrade their elite customers into these premium seats , leaving their original seats for you . So you most likely will get a seat , though you may not have much choice as to which seat . If you buy your ticket further in advance , when more seats are available , you will have a better chance of being able to confirm your seat assignment .
I believe " standard " tubes of toothpaste are about 6 ounces or more . This would not be allowed within the US as TSA regulations limit liquids and gels to containers of at most 3.4 oz ( 100 ml ) . Larger containers which are partially empty are specifically forbidden . See <URL> .
It depends primarily on the airline policy . The only airline I believe is Royal Brunei Airlines which allows consumption of personal alcohol on-board because it does not serve any on the aircraft . Any airline which serves alcohol on-board typically does not allow consumption of personal alcohol . I suspect the reason for this is to maintain decorum during the flight and prevent people from drinking too much which would compromise the safety of other passengers including the intoxicated person in tense situations . As mentioned in the question , the <URL> prohibits alcohol which is not served by the certificate holder operating the aircraft . So , this rules out the United States . Most airlines do n't provide any specific information about it in their General Conditions of International Carriage for Passenger and Baggage . If you want to look up for a specific airline , the Conduct Aboard the Aircraft ( Article 11,12 or 15 typically ) can provide information regarding the same . One example we can talk about is airlines which <URL> on their flights : <URL> does not allow it in any form Saudi Arabian Airlines does not serve or permit passengers to carry or drink alcoholic beverages on its flights . <URL> does n't serve alcohol but allows you to carry some and consume on board ( does not specify domestic or international waters ) . It also does not mention anything regarding this in their <URL> . <URL> does not allow it in any form You are not allowed to consume alcohol aboard an aircraft ( whether purchased as duty free or otherwise obtained ) Another example we must talk about is European airlines which do serve alcohol : <URL> serves alcohol but does not allow passengers to consume their own alcohol . It is forbidden to consume any alcohol which you may have personally brought on board . <URL> also serves alcohol but <URL> . Passengers are not allowed to consume the alcoholic beverages they bring on board during the flight , including duty-free items purchased at the airport or on the plane . <URL> follows the same policy as the others 15.4 The Carrier may limit or prohibit the consumption of alcohol on board the aircraft . Consumption of any alcoholic beverages carried into the aircraft by Passengers or consumption of any duty free product bought on board the aircraft is prohibited . So does <URL> For safety reasons , consumption of alcohol by passengers is restricted to alcohol served by us , with the result that alcohol purchased by passengers ( whether as duty free purchases at airports or aboard aircraft or other purchases ) can not be consumed aboard our aircraft . Now , airlines in Asia which also serve alcohol : <URL> does n't say it specifically but it implies that personal alcohol consumption is not allowed Passengers are also permitted to consume their own snacks and non-alcoholic drinks on board . <URL> says it quite specifically Except for the alcoholic drinks provided by CEAIR flights , Passengers shall not have any other alcoholic drinks on board the aircraft . <URL> does not either Drinking of any alcoholic drinks on board an aircraft is permitted only in amounts offered by the airline . <URL> has the same policy as the others You are not allowed to consume alcohol aboard an aircraft ( whether purchased as duty free from us or someone else or otherwise obtained ) unless it has been served to you by us . We have the right , at any time and for any reason , to refuse to serve you alcohol or to withdraw alcohol which has been served to you .
Riga has a small city centre . All tourists are there and most of the " sense " and energy is there . There is n't much around it and a ride from the airport gets you there . If you can come up with something you want to see , it wo n't be far from it and one day will be enough . Of course , if you 're not planning to drink in the evening and have " adventures " . Maybe the only exception is the sea-side city of Jurmala , getting there is 30 minutes on a train . I 'd recommend using some guide like InYourPocket ( they have PDFs on their site and you 'll find the printed version in many local hotels ) to find something interesting .
To avoid disturbance from small children , you can use a multi-pronged approach : first , try to choose flights that are more of a hassle for parents . Generally this means night flights - some parents may be sure their child will sleep ( and not bother you ) but others are worried the child will not sleep and will cry . So they take a daytime flight and are willing to entertain them for the length of the flight second , try to minimize the impact of the child on you . Buy a more expensive ticket - first , business , even economy plus . Children are of course allowed in the more expensive zones , but they are in substantially fewer numbers . In some cases these children are experienced and quiet flyers , accompanying parents who have been kept awake by other people 's children in the past . And do what you can to improve things at whatever seat you have . Bring noise cancelling headphones in addition to earplugs , for example . Bring some sort of music you can play that will drown out the repetitive reading . third , try to react in the moment in some way that is more positive than sitting in your seat seething . Go for a walk . Strike up a conversation elsewhere on the plane . Turn around and interact with the child , such as playing peek a boo over the back of your seat . It 's probably likely to be quieter than the reading and even endear you to the parents . Tell the child your name and ask theirs , and smile . If in a few hours you want to ask the parents if there 's a quieter form of entertainment available , you wo n't be the grumpy gus in the next row , you 'll be the toddler 's airplane friend . fourth , try to be realistic . No toddler does anything for 12 hours . They nap , they eat and drink , and so on . Focusing on the behavior that irritates you , to the extent you genuinely recall that it took the entire flight time , leaves you with a bad cloud around you that can take days to shake . When the noise starts , tell yourself it wo n't last the whole flight . Do something positive , listen to something , take yourself away from the noise . When the noise stops , be grateful , even if it 's just a short respite . And finally , when you leave the plane , be grateful that you are now done with that child and do n't have to hear the noise or put in any effort to try to prevent bedlam . The parents will still be on duty for hours more today , and for another few decades in general . Count your blessings !
I have been on flights a couple of times where the pilot made an announcement , but nothing more than that . Flying across the Equator in this day and age is a non-event , same as flying over the International Date Line or the Arctic Circle . While it might be cool to someone who does n't travel much , it is not unique enough to warrant a celebration ( especially not free booze ;-) . Back in the day , when planes did n't go as far and you had to hop from airstrip to airstrip refueling to reach Australia from Los Angeles , it was a big deal . But today planes do it in a single flight and the Equator is crisscrossed by a multitude of flights every day .
As you commented , it 's not necessarily possible there unless you are a Chilean resident . However , assuming you are : <URL> on many embassies including the one in Santiago for Thailand ( go figure ) . They state there that the turn around time is 2 days to 1 week , presumably depending on whether you pay for express service , and how close to weekends/holidays you are , and busy travel times .
The airlines all make it clear that they do not guarantee space on board for all items that are eligible carry-on luggage , as pointed out in another answer . I would presume that you can not claim a higher loss allowance for a bag just because it is forced to be checked during boarding . I would n't rely on an agent 's word at the gate , either . The best way to protect yourself is to plan to remove the valuable items and carry them on ( often times there is enough space for individual items even if there is not enough space for a standard carry-on suitcase ) . There are certain types of smaller aircraft that do not accommodate standard carry-on suitcases . Check your itinerary to ensure you are n't flying on one of those planes . They include Canadair Regional Jets , many Embraer regional jets and all prop style planes like the Dash-8 or ATR . Larger bags on these planes are always checked at boarding and returned to you upon arrival at the gate . If you can not remove the items and carry them on safely , then you should be prepared to make the case with an airline agent to be moved to another flight . I do n't know how successful you will be , and you may have to wait out many full flights before it happens , but that may be your best best to avoid checking a larger but valuable item . Edit : I will mention something from a helpful comment by Tor-Einar Jarnbjo : you might be able to purchase a second seat to accommodate a very valuable item like a musical instrument . Contact your airline to discuss this option .
If traveling with young children , airlines generally allow you to check in strollers for free . Unless the dimensions are completely ridiculous even after folding , it should be fine , but ring the airline in question to confirm if you 're worried . Do consider investing in a stroller bag or at least a heavy-duty garbage bag to pack it in , as this reduces the odds of damage if a dangling strap catches onto something etc. . ( Many airlines will in fact bag strollers for you for this very reason . ) Source : I 've personally checked in a <URL> with no problems , although this is a stacked , collapsible double stroller and not quite as wide as yours .
The answer to this is : Fairly . I did n't use a colectivo in the end myself - for our group and distance , a Taxi only cost 30 MXN more . The walk from the highway is real , but probably only 500m - 800m or so . There is a sidewalk on the highway overpass ( if you need to get to/from that side of the road ) . Once over the highway there is a footpath seperated from the road to take you to the entrance .
The answer is yes you can apply in Cyprus for the US visa but if you 're not a permanent or long term resident of Cyprus you should be prepared to reasonably prove why you could n't go back to Russia to get the visa . The site for information and applications for US Visa processing has changed to <URL> and while Cyprus section does n't contain a specific FAQ the section for <URL> addresses this very question : Q. 1 If I am a citizen of another country , can I apply for a nonimmigrant visa in Russia ? Any person who is legally present in Russia may apply for a visa in Russia . However , applicants are generally advised to apply in their country of nationality or residence . It is generally easiest to demonstrate your strong ties abroad in the country where you permanently reside . So yes you can apply but the residency question is likely come up .
Yes you can . Although the right answer is very dependent on your personal interests , here are a few pointers to get you started : Do a <URL> . They work for tips , so it 's not really free , but it 's an easy and friendly way to get to know a bit of the city . Spend time at <URL> . There are several decent museums in the park , and it 's a great place to relax and watch the world go by . Spend an afternoon or evening exploring <URL> , a lovely suburb full of restaurants and bars .
<URL> provides an excellent overview of radiation types and what you are most liable to encounter . For airline flights gamma-radiation is the most probable type . ( Alpha particles are stopped by paper , Beta by thin foil or similar . You can buy commercial instruments that will detect radiation for from about $ 200 on up . An off the shelf " PIN diode " acts as an adequate gamma radiation detector in many cases . <URL> from Maxim . Their notes are worth reading in this context . <URL> They say : Abstract : A PIN photodiode , four low-noise op amps and a comparator are used to detect individual photons of gamma radiation . The schematic , design considerations and component selection are discussed . The circuit of Figure 1 includes a PIN photodiode that detects individual photons of gamma radiation . When a photon strikes a depletion region created by reverse bias on the photodiode , it produces a small amount of charge in proportion to the photon 's energy . The resulting signal is then amplified and filtered by four amplifiers and a final comparator distinguishes between the signal and noise . The comparator output pulses high each time a gamma photon with sufficient energy strikes the photodiode . <URL> <URL> <URL> ADDED Here is a description of a DIY real world Gamma Ray detector based on a PIN diode . Made by VK2ZAY - Australian radio-amateur . A number of other on-web designs are based on his work . <URL> <URL> good . Here is a <URL> Related videos - same device <URL> and <URL> and <URL>
<URL> Former London flight attendant Mrs Meho said there 's little cabin crew can do with a corpse , so the priority is to place the body out of sight . " We make the body comfortable , " Mrs Meho said . " Either that means taking it somewhere discreet or lying the body flat and covering with a blanket . If there are not seats we ' prop ' the body up . " " We can place them ( bodies ) anywhere , but not a lavatory , " Sharon said . " We are also given the option of putting an oxygen mask on the person and simply saying they did n't feel well , even if we were sure they had gone to meet their maker . "
There 's <URL> So provided they are n't so heavy as to be a potential " blunt instrument " weapon , you should be ok . If they 're in original packaging , that might help . Of course , they do n't have to let any items through , restricted list or not . You may also wish to check the website of your airline , for their prohibited items list . I 'd be suprised to see any consumer electronics on there , but better safe than sorry . You 're more likley to get in trouble at the other end . I 'm not clear on the exact regulations for Switzerland , but you are likley to be liable to pay duty and VAT/Sales Tax on imported items . <URL> says that Switzerland would apply an 8 % tax to imported graphics cards . You can of course go to the " Goods to Declare " window/corridor at customs , but this may eat into your saving significantly .
There is absolutely no problem with your wife following you in . It is normal when families are renting trucks and the weight inspectors and state troopers are well aware of it . The good news is the process is simple - just roll over a road , follow the stop sign and be on your way . You might be asked ( should you be over the weight ) if you are carrying household goods/personal items and then be politely nodded along . From my experience , Texas is especially strict about weight stations - but your mileage may vary :) depending on the inspector on duty . Good luck and have a safe trip !
Upon landing at Abu Dhabi ; you and your luggage will be subject to an x-ray scan . At this point , any suspicious items will be confiscated . Although you are not importing items into the UAE ( as you never enter the country , but are in transit ) nevertheless any goods deemed inappropriate will be seized . You do run the risk of having the item confiscated but nothing more .
end question
start question
For the purpose of entering Russia , is there a difference for visa requirements between Hong Kong SAR passport holders , and Hong Kong residents ?
All you need is the HK SAR passport . The page is worded that way because they ca n't say " nationals of Hong Kong " : Hong Kong is a part of China , so there are no citizens of Hong Kong , only <URL> . And they also ca n't say " nationals of China " , because that would give visa-free access to everybody in China . So they say " permanent residents of Hong Kong SAR " , and how do you demonstrate that you are one ? By being a " holder of the Hong Kong SAR passport " . Where you actually live is irrelevant . Your question also implies that residency of Hong Kong alone is enough to get visa-free access to Russia , but this is not the case ; for example , <URL> .
The " Express " here is for express buses , which serve parts of the " outer " boroughs that are not well served by subways . These buses have a higher fare . Express trains in the subway system do not have a higher fare . Your fare card is checked when you swipe it in the turnstile to enter the system . Once you 're in , you 're in . You can stay as long as you like and ride as many trains ( express or otherwise ) as you like . Why did n't you just ask someone on the platform ? You would have learned very quickly that you could take the express trains .
According to <URL> , a Hong Kong citizen does not require a visa to visit Russian for up to 14 days , even if they are a resident of Canada . Note that you will require an onward ticket in order to be granted entry . In general , residency does not affect visa requirements , however it 's always a good idea to check .
No , no way to walk from Kowloon to Hong Kong island , there are several ferries to cross the harbour , but none of them is free . There is no tunnel you can walk through either , just motor traffic .
Google will find the <URL> and tell you that it closes at 6.30 pm At other times the trip is possible in that amount of time , but busyness depends on time and season . You can reach the monastery and the Big Buddha without going up the cable car , but I do n't know how long it takes to drive there .
If you only enter mainland China once , the single entry Chinese visa is enough . EU national does n't need a visa to enter HK or Taiwan , which are , despite PRC official beliefs , not Chinese countries from a travel standpoint . They have their own visa policies , citizens of those nations have a unique passport , etc. . You will not be able to enter Shenzhen using the same visa as before , you will need to acquire another . You can get a 5 day Zhenzhen only visa .
AirBnb : You can host people in your house and they will pay you for it . You should have your house ready to receive guests , like a clean house , good services like air conditioning , heating , be attentive and polite with your guests . Even some hosts give complimentary services , like breakfast , free beer , water or other things . It is like a little hotel with 1 , 2 or 3 rooms . You charge for the services and you have an obligation for good service to them . I would like to say , that you will have to pay taxes for the service . Couchsurfing : You are inviting people to sleep in your house ( sometime it can be just go for a walk with them , not just hosting ) . In that case , you are not " obliged " to get anything ready . Otherwise , it would be very polite from you to have a clean house or good services , but it just depend on you an the guest should not complain for anything , as long as they are not paying for anything . Even sometimes , host can bring you a little present , cook for you or pay a dinner or for drinks if you go out together . But it just happens sometimes . In both cases , you will be rated and shared the experience with the community .
Gazole and Diesel are synonyms . They both mean diesel fuel , as opposed to essence or super ( short for supercarburant , nobody uses the long form ) which means usual car gasoline . You must use the type of fuel that 's appropriate for your car , either gazole or super . I think that diesel engines are more common in cars in France than in most other countries . The extra word extra means a type of fuel that has advantages compared with non-extra , either to mileage or to engine longevity . As far as I know , the term diesel extra is not regulated , it is only a commercial name chosen by this or that brand .
Most retailers in Hong Kong do not accept RMB . The 7-11 stores * have an enlightend policy where they will accept RMB at HKD face value and give you any change in HKD . As HKD are worth less than RMB they make a profit of the exchange rate on the transaction . The <URL> is 1 RMB = 1.25114 HKD ( April 2013 ) , so the 7-11 stores are making an additional 25 % profit for their kindness . Some other sellers MAY accept them but my recollection is that most will not . Trying to use HKD in China is about impossible . Note that in most of Asia NO commission or flat fee is payable . The rate offered applies $ for $ or whatever . In eg Australia they charge an iniquitous up front fee and changing enough to get eg $ 20 for a cofee may give you only $ A5 or less . Utter thievery . While , as uncovery says , there are a very large number of money changers in HK , I have found that banks and specialist big-business money changers offer poor rates and that the best rates of all are offered by a small number of small businesses if you know where to look . I stay in Mong Kok when I am in HK ( noisy , busy , cheap accommodation , more " authentic " than many areas , fun ) and have found a money changer who invariably offers superb rates - about 0.5 % off the actual exchange rate either way . Stunning . Location below . As I wander the city I note the various rate offered and in quite a few visits no other money changer has bested these ones . Taking subway to Yau Ma Tei ( quick cheap ride from city centre ) and exit at A1 and walk West along Pitt Street and you may be at their door - or , see below . Rate assessment : You can instantly determine how good a rate a money changer is offering by asking their cash buy and sell rates between two currencies ( or buy rate each way or sell rate each way , which gives the same result . ) The mean " markup is ~ = ( $ buy - $ sell ) / ( $ buy + $ sell ) Close enough you can use buy-sell difference / $ buy/2 ( = same as buy-sell difference / ( 2 x $ buy ) ) eg if some one is trading HKD-RMB , if they offer 1.2 HKD per RMB if buying RMB ( or selling HKD ) and 1.3 HKD/RMB if selling RMB ( or buying HKD ) Then markup = ( 1.3-1 .2 ) / ( 1.3 +1.2 ) = 0.1 / 2.5 = 4 % The simpler method gives ( 1.3-1 .2 ) / 1.2 / 2 = 0.1 / 2.4 ~ = 4 % close enough . Purists will argue that the true rate is square_root ( $ buy x $ sell ) but , again , the result is not much different . For any given currency pair just look at the buy-sell difference . The smaller the better . ForEx who seem to have booths in all airports and elsewhere offer consistently very terrible rates in my experience . Western Union are not usually very marvellous . Hong Kong 's cheapest rates : Location : Please excuse degree of uncertainty . I will have photos but probably not findable in your time frame . Location is " probably " where two red lines are . I start from Mong Kok proper near subway just above top of picture . Walk down Nathan road and after a few blocks drill in sideways . You can spot them by the queue !!! :-) . Two cashiers AFAIR opening onto street . Two small fast moving queues of happy customers changing all sorts . About 2 or 3 doors along further off Nathan Road on the same side is a Western Union office with 3 cashiers and NO customers !!!!!! :-) . Fast , polite , professional / business like . No Chinese language needed . " 7-11 " stores are unknown in my country ( NZ ) but are much the same as 7-11 stores in the US - corner stores selling food , groceries , drinks etc. ) .
Yes . From <URL> : You do not need to apply to change your nonimmigrant status if you were admitted into the United States for business reasons ( B-1 visa category ) and you wish to remain in the United States for pleasure before your authorized stay expires .
From the perspective of a traveler , there is almost zero difference . Both embassies and consulates are representative departments of a foreign country/government within another country . Technically , an Embassy is where an " Ambassador " is based . As there can only be one Ambassador for a specific country , there can only be ( at most ) one Embassy . As the Ambassador is the highest ranking representative of that foreign government , the Embassy is thus also deemed to be the highest level of representative location . A consulate is similar , but generally deemed to be a lower ranking due to the lack of an Ambassador . Consulates will generally be smaller - often being more like an office where the embassy often doubles as the actual residence for the Ambassador and/or some of his staff . Some countries may not have an embassy in a specific country , but may only have a consulate there . This will occur in the situation where there is no ambassador assigned to the country . From a travel perspective , both will generally provide the same services , and normally location will be far more relevant than the name . In some cases consulates may be slower to process requests as they may simply pass them onto the Embassy rather than doing them themselves . eg , the Australia consulate in San Francisco does not issue new passports - they are forwarded to the embassy in Washington DC , however all passport requests from people in the San Francisco area must be done via the local consulate and can not be sent directly to the embassy !
<URL> : ( Updated : 2015/03/18 ) Visas are not required of aliens , who hold final destination tickets and have booked seats on international airliners flying directly through China , and will stay in a transit city for less than 24 hours without leaving the airport . No visa is required for ordinary passport holders from Singapore , Brunei and Japan to visit China for up to 15 days for business , sightseeing , visiting relatives and friends or transit . As of March 2015 , citizens of 51 countries may stay visa free in Shanghai , Beijing , Guangzhou , Chengdu , Chongqing , Dalian , Shengyang and Harbin for 72 hours while transiting to their destinations .
I was in Hong Kong recently and there was nothing that appeared to be ' weekend only ' . I did n't see any change in how crowded things were at weekends compared with weekdays . Hong Kong is always incredibly crowded . We did try to visit the Hong Kong Museum of History on a Tuesday and found that it was closed every Tuesday . ( It is well worth it , by the way - we came back a different day ) You might find that other museums have a ' closing day ' too .
Many airlines will send out periodic mailings detailing points promotions and/or discounted/special fares . There is - of course - no guarantee that the flight you want will come up on sale , but every now and then you 'll also get coupon codes for double miles , 10 % off , etc. , which can also be very helpful . To opt into these mailings , check your online profile settings for your miles program ( s ) . ( for example , to opt into American Airlines mailings , log into your account at <URL> , click on " My Account " at the top , and then click on the " Email and Fare Alerts " tab on the following page )
There is n't a free public shuttle bus service to/from the airport . ( There are , of course , <URL> . ) What I think your relative may have gotten it confused with is <URL> that are reserved for guests . I 'd recommend taking the <URL> though . It 's a lot cheaper ( $ 100 ) than getting a taxi and a lot faster than a bus given Hong Kong 's traffic , and if you 're going to the airport many airlines now offer check-in desks in the city itself , before you get to the airport . Once you have paid for your ticket and caught the HKIA express : Free shuttle bus service is available , taking passengers from Kowloon or Hong Kong stations to most major hotels and transport interchanges . Passengers can also enjoy free porter service at all Airport Express stations . So if you have a hotel near Kowloon or Hong Kong station , you should be able to get a free shuttle bus once you have taken the Airport Express .
Definitely on Friday , come as soon as possible . Once the weekend starts and people come from work or school ( Friday from 16:00 on ) , it gets packed very quickly . People start lining up overnight to get the best stuff anyhow . You can assume that once the prices go down , the good things will be gone , too . The visitor numbers have been increasing massively over the years , so be prepared for a VERY packed convention center . If I remember correctly I have been there 2 years ago on Sunday and it felt more like a plucked chicken then anything else . Also , most of the exhibits there ( apart from hardware ) was geared towards Chinese/HKG anime , not so much ( as far as I could tell ) Japanese/International stuff . It can be however that this changed since then since the fair expanded quite a lot since then .
It is absolutely legal to shoot at a range as long as you either shoot their guns or bring your own legal firearm to the range provided your weapon meet range 's restrictions . For example : <URL> will rent you a firearm , similar is available from <URL> . Normally the only thing that you need to have with you is a valid photo ID . You can probably use <URL> to limit the list of shooting ranges .
Generally no . HK$ in Hong Kong . RMB in China . However , there are plenty of ATMs where your normal bank card should be able to get you cash at a reasonable rate . Some banks have " no-fee " agreements with partner banks in China . For me that 's Westpac in AUS and China Construction Bank in mainland China .
You can buy an Octopus at basically at all transport terminals . This includes all MTR stations ( including the airport ) , major light rail stations , major bus and ferry terminals , etc. . Look for the " Customer Service Centre " , which is basically the manned ticket booth .
A couple of resources that I find useful : <URL> : A comprehensive listing of visa , health , customs ( in its British English , not American English , definition ) for different destinations compiled by IATA . I have found this is fairly accurate . The form , however , is cumbersome as it asks you to fill in far too many details than required . <URL> : I discovered this website fairly recently . It 's simple in that it allows you to choose what country 's passport you hold , and then show a list of countries that have visa-free or visa-on-arrival entry . This is good for a brief overview use it with caution . As of now , it sometimes misses out information that might affect visas due to residency status either way ; sometimes , it 's harder ( you need to go back to country of nationality ) and sometimes it 's easier ( you can get visa-free/on-arrival holding a passport of one country if you 're considered a resident of another ) .
end question
start question
How do travel agents make profit ?
Having consulted for a few travel agencies , here is some insight : The bigger the agency , the more discounts they get on tickets . This means that the more the agency is popular , the more the airlines are willing to give them a rate because they sell out their allocation . Some agencies reserve ( block ) slots in advance which gives them a discounted price . This is usually done during the busy summer travel season . Then it is upon the agency to sell of their allocation . Note that if they do n't sell off their allocation , they are stuck with the seats - they ca n't be used on other dates ( the block is for a date range ) . Agents partner with travel networks ( <URL> , <URL> , etc. ) to which airlines feed their availability . Agents then have partnerships with particular airlines to be able to issue tickets on their behalf . Agents can have partnerships with multiple airlines and cruise/hotel networks . If you are looking for a cheap fare , here is what you need to watch out for : Timing ( how quickly do you want to fly ) . Route ( a city pair will have multiple flights ) . Season ( during travel seasons , seats fill up quick so prices shoot up ) . The agent . In this respect , the cheapest option is the airline direct ( either through their website , or their own offices ) , then you can look at online travel aggregator websites like Expedia and Travelocity , and then finally a travel agent .
It happens in quite a few countries , even in the USA . It depends on the card processing bank that the merchant is using . Some request that the merchant document validity of the card in " card not present " transactions . You find it most when a charge is done manually , such as sending your card details to a Travel Company or hotel and then they process the charge manually , usually at a later date . It provides some assurance that when they try to run the card , it is actually yours and not something that will show up stolen after they have already made bookings and arrangements on your behalf . If you are paying immediately through an online system , they usually do n't need this , as you provide some form of verification such as the CVV and billing address right then and there . And the charge is authorized before proceeding with finalization of your booking .
The most useful single reference seems to be the " <URL> " page of the <URL> , followed by the USDA 's page titled " <URL> " . In summary : The microchip must meet standard <URL> for identification purposes . The microchip must be implanted before the rabies vaccination is done . The Bayer " ResQ " brand of microchips appears to meet the requirements ( <URL> ) . The rabies vaccine must me done at least 21 days before travel ( other sources say 30 days ) . The " rabies serological test " ( section V on the veterinary certificate ) is not required for animals coming from the U.S. . The <URL> must be endorsed by the USDA <URL> ( APHIS ) within 4 months of travel . The airlines also have their own requirements . An " international health certificate " ( <URL> ) might be required ( ?? ) . This must also be endorsed by APHIS . The form itself says it is valid for 30 days , but my vet says it must be done within 10 days of travel . Pet relocation . com has a nice page with the <URL> . The USDA 's APHIS has a page titled " <URL> " . It states , in part : International health certificates for the export of animals from the United States are completed by the APHIS accredited veterinarian who certifies animal health status , conducts tests , and records test results for the individual animals being exported . Completed and signed international health certificates for the export of animals from the United States must be endorsed by a Veterinary Services area office in order to be valid . To obtain the USDA endorsement of an international health certificate or any other documents relating to traveling with your pet , the documents must be completed by an APHIS Accredited Veterinarian . The APHIS Area Office for your state can assist you with your questions relating to traveling with your pet , help you locate an Accredited Veterinarian , and inform you of the fee ( s ) for the USDA endorsement ( s ) . You should check with your current Veterinarian to determine if he/she is an APHIS Accredited Veterinarian . The airlines have their own rules and fees : Delta Airlines : <URL> , <URL> . United Airlines : <URL> American Airlines : <URL> . Note : American Airlines does not allow carry-on pets on transatlantic flights ! Lufthansa : Very pet-friendly . Allows in-cabin trans-Atlantic pets with a $ 150 fee ( each way ) , as of June 2015 . Other useful references : FlyerTalk thread : " <URL> "
A local newspaper here in Finland recently ran a fuel efficiency test that might provide some relevant data here . <URL> is , alas , in Finnish only , but I 'll summarize the results below . The test compared the fuel consumption of the test vehicle ( a <URL> D4 diesel ) , on a test route that included both highway and urban driving , in three rooftop configurations . The results were : No roof rack : 5.6 l / 100 km ( & approx ; 42 mpg ) Roof rack with <URL> aerodynamic cargo box : 5.9 l / 100 km ( & approx ; 40 mpg ) Roof mounted <URL> ski carrier with skis : 6.0 l / 100 km ( & approx ; 39 mpg ) Thus , the cargo box on the roof increased fuel consumption by about 5 % compared to the baseline . ( The full test also measured the noise level at the driver 's ear , and compared the ease of installation and various other aspects of the different options , but I 'll leave those out of this summary . Suffice to say that the cargo box caused some steady but noticeable hum , and made the car somewhat more sensitive to side winds . )
In theory , a mountain hut should never send away a tired tourist , especially if he does n't have a chance to reach another safe place before sundown . But in summer some of the huts are so full , that tourist need to sleep in dining room on the floor . In Slovakia , the huts range from small , with capacity of 20 people , to large with capacity of over 100 people . I suggest checking <URL> for information about the hut , find their phone number and under you can check their capacity . As for tents , most of Tatra area is a national park , and in such you are not allowed to camp or walk away from marked hiking tracks .
but there are a lot of blogs online about that stuff and it seems pointless to add another . There are never enough blogs on any topic . See <URL> . What things to consider especially for travel blogs ? the backend ( where you create your content and config your blog ) should be accessible from mobile devices ; if it 's no fun / not easy , you 'll probably do n't post so much if a problem occurs , you should be able to handle/fix it on tour ( or contact someone who can do it for you ) backups should be done automatically ( e.g. send a database dump daily to a separate mail account ) if you use internet cafés and/or untrusted networks , your password could be stolen ; do n't use an admin account to post/edit content ; but have admin login available for emergencies ( e.g. to delete compromised user accounts ) good <URL> : functionality to add new posts by email Self-hosting vs. 3rd party service Self-hosting advantages you get exactly what you want it 's your content , you have full control , you can backup it ( some services allow this , too , but not all ) no policies , no censorship , no rules , no service terms you can fix any problems yourself ( and do n't have to wait for the provider to do it ) you can create/use accounts with lesser privileges ( security ) disadvantages costs more time costs money ( hosting ) need to know that stuff ( resp . dig into it ) you have to update the software yourself ( security ) you need to fix any problems yourself ;) 3rd party service advantages no setup , no configuration , no updates ( usually ) no costs disadvantages might not offer exactly what you need ; customization possibilites are limited you do n't " own " your content ; ( often ) no backup possibility you have to respect their service terms ( often ) ads you ca n't do anything if it goes down ( often ) you have only one account ; if your password is stolen , your account is lost risk of being deleted ( for no reason ) , risk that the service might shut down forever
ITA uses " published " fares , so any travel agent should be able to book them . However , make sure that you 've correctly set the " Sales city " to be a city in the country where you will be buying the ticket , as ticket prices can vary depending on where you purchase them . So if you set the sale city to be SFO , it 's possible that an Australian travel agency will not be able to sell the ticket at the same price . It 's also helpful to give the section that is headed : " Fare construction ( can be useful to travel agents ) " to the travel agent . This will show how the fare has been " priced " , and whilst it 's not needed for simple itineraries , it can help for more complex ones where the trip is potentially being booked as 2 or more separate fares . There are a few exceptions to the above , but they will generally be rare . eg , in some cases travel agents may choose not to sell a particular fare if they believe that certain components are not being priced correctly - for example , if the fuel surcharge is n't being correctly calculated , as it 's possible for the airline to bill them for that after the fact . However these situations are extremely rare .
My experience with Vietnam was that it really did n't matter - there are literally hundreds of travel agencies and many of them share the same tour operators . You get picked up at the travel agency you booked at and the bus continues on to 5-10 other places to pick up everyone else . The only thing you really need consider is the price ( which should n't vary by much anyway ) . If you 're really concerned about getting ripped off ( unlikely ) , I would wait until you arrive , and just ask some recently returned travelers who they booked with and whether they would recommend them . You may even get a ( small ) discount if you say you were referred by someone else . For Ha Long Bay , most tour operators will recommend a 1-2 night tour , with one night on Cat Ba Island and one on a Vietnamese junk ( tourist boat ) . For what it 's worth , I thoroughly enjoyed both . Be warned that a junk recently sank during the night killing a few tourists , so be a bit more wary of spending a night on one . Similarly with Sapa , tour operators will recommend you do some trekking with/to meet the local Hmong tribes , this I would also thoroughly recommend . Do n't forget to bring some decent hiking boots ( or buy them in Hanoi ) as it 's always muddy . After the hike you can get your boots cleaned and dried in 20 minutes for about a dollar . I have no idea how they do it . Tours are very easy to organise from Hanoi but keep in mind if you 're going far afield it can take a very long time due to the condition of the roads and the fact that speeds are limited due to motorbikes/pigs/chickens / people sharing them with you . This should n't be a concern with what you 're interested in , but something to keep in mind if plans change .
The short answer is no , you do n't need it . The long answer is that all Japanese have been vaccinated for it since the 1960s and statistical incidence is down to background noise levels : <URL> figures less than one case per year since the 1990s . So unless you 're planning on spending a lot of time in rural pig farms , it 's not worth worrying about . The CDC is , as ever , more cautious , but even they state that " <URL> " . The Australian Dep ' t of Health goes a bit further , stating that " the risk of travellers in Asia acquiring JE is extremely low " and only <URL> for " travellers spending 1 month or more in rural areas of Asia " ( unless there are significant other risk factors ) . All that said , the vaccine is reasonably effective and provides lifetime protection . So if money and needles are n't a concern and ( probably more importantly ) you plan on traveling in places where the disease is more common , like Vietnam or Indonesia , you might as well go for it .
<URL> has : Hitchhiking is done in Iran by waving one 's arm at an oncoming car , or by dribbling one of your hands . I have not seen this myself ( experience only of Tehran ) because taxis seemed virtually free there anyway but I think I recognise the " dribbling hand " gesture as something that looks to me like an accelerated version of a ' slow down ' gesture .
This is a common situation , and it 's generally no problem . I 'll use A for the country you 're in , and B for the country you 're going to , but all the " flows " described here work equally well if you want to use your B passport to go to a third country . Case 1 : Same name , dual citizenship OK If you have the same name in both passports ( that is , same first name and last name , minor variations are OK ) , and both countries accept dual citizenship ( if you 're not sure , <URL> ) , the basic formula is : Show the airline the passport of the country you 're going to Show immigration the passport for the country you 're in In step-by-step detail , when flying from A to B and back : At check-in , show your B passport . This way the airline knows you will be allowed to enter your destination . At exit immigration , show your A passport . ( In countries without exit immigration , like the US , you may need to show A as well at check-in . ) At the gate , show either passport , does n't matter . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your B passport . And on the way back from B to A , just reverse the process : At check-in , show your A passport . This way the airline knows you will be allowed to enter your destination . At exit immigration , show your B passport . At the gate , show either passport , does n't matter . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your A passport . Pictorial representation for a UK/US dual citizen visiting the US , courtesy <URL> : <URL> Case 2 : Different names , dual citizenship OK If your names are different , but your countries are OK with each other : Book your flight with the name on your A passport . At airline check-in , show your A passport that matches the name on your ticket , and your B passport , that proves you 're allowed to enter . At exit immigration , show your A passport . At the gate , show your A passport , so that your name matches your ticket . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your B passport . On the way back , at check-in , show your A passport only . At exit immigration , show your B passport . At the gate , show your A passport , so that your name matches your ticket . Fly back . On arrival immigration , show your A passport . Case 3 : Same name , dual citizenship not OK Things get harder if one or both your countries does not accept dual citizenship , especially if they care enough to look for visas or arrival stamps . The key thing to understand here is that the airline is not a part of immigration . They do not care if you have multiple passports and they are not going to tell immigration if you do , all they want to know if whether you will be allowed in at your destination . So here 's one way to avoid letting A know you are also a citizen of B : Book a flight from A to B via a neutral third country C , where you do not need a visa . ( For example , Malaysia does not accept dual citizenship , so dual-citizen Malaysians often travel via Singapore . ) On check-in , show your A passport . At exit immigration , show your A passport . Fly to C. Connect to your flight to B . At arrival immigration , show your B passport . On the way back , though , you will need a short detour : At check in , show your B passport . At exit immigration , show your B passport . Fly to C. On arrival at C , do not go to transfer , but instead go to immigration , show your A passport and get it stamped . ( Leave enough time for this ! ) If you need to check-in again , show your A passport . At C 's exit immigration , show your A passport again and get it stamped again . Fly to A . At arrival immigration , show your A passport . This will have a departure stamp from C , neatly hiding that you were actually in B. Beware that this is not totally foolproof , as a very careful inspection of your stamps will reveal that you were not in C for the whole time , but unless you 're North Korean , it 's unlikely you will be subjected to this level of scrutiny . Some people choose to go through immigration in C on the way out as well , so they get more decoy stamps . Case 4 : Different names , dual citizenship not OK If you have different names and your countries do n't like each other , you can still use the same method as above , but you 'll likely need to to book your A-C-A flight in your " A " name and your C-B-C flight in your " B " name .
The best option is to buy a " Trampoline " ticket on Lille - Kortrijk . This ticket costs 8 Euro and is valid the whole day on all trains ( both ways ) on the Lille - Kortrijk route . <URL> You can buy this at the ticket office , or from the ticket vending machines . Trying to do it all using " local " transport will make the trip a lot longer , and will unlikely be cheaper than the 8 euro Trampoline ticket . On weekends SNCF also offers Trampoline tickets to other destinations in Belgium . They 're a bit more expensive , but still good deals .
Yes it is . You can make reservations for domestic trains and for trains to Montenegro via e-mail or telephone . You find the contact details on the <URL> .
Unless you have some very specific document like a limited territorial validity Schengen visa , a récépissé for an asylum application or a temporary visa delivered to let you leave the country after receiving an obligation de quitter le territoire français , chances are you have the right to transit in another Schengen country with your French visa ( it 's the case for most long-stay visas -- work , student , family ... -- for example ) . But in any case Basel EuroAirport is entirely on French territory so you should not worry . In practice , half of the terminal building is designated as the " Swiss part " of the airport with a special road and parking area to reach it from Switzerland without having to complete customs formalities for France but it should not impact you , you can use the French/German/EU half to enter the airport , check in , etc. and proceed to the international transit area like you would in any other French airport . One thing you can not do however if you want to avoid setting foot on Swiss territory is take the train to Basel and the bus to the airport from there ( if memory serves , public transport connections are better from the Swiss side than from Mulhouse or Saint-Louis or wherever it is you can find a bus to the airport in France ) .
If you 're using a booking engine such as <URL> , the rule of thumb says that the earlier the better , while it 's possible that later on some hotels will offer campaign prices , or as you mentioned , you might catch some last-minute deals . Those are exceptions though , you should not hope for a significant save over a reservation booked well in advance . My suggestion is , in case you 're certain about the travel dates , make your reservations as early as possible on the options with free cancellation , then later on check the website regularly to see whether it 'd be beneficial to change your reservation . Mostly though , this will not result in a significant financial gain , rather finding better or more suitable hotels in the same price range .
I 've done the Pamir Highway in the summer of 2014 . It 's hard to answer the question how long it takes because it 's not a road for getting from A to B but it 's an experience in itself and you may want to spend as long as you can up there . There are several points to think about before heading out : Which route ? do you want to take , there are several options from Khorog , you can go south along the Afghan border to the Wakhan valley and then turn north to join the M41 . You can go north via the Bartang River or along the Shokh Dara valley . The most direct route is to leave Khorog on the M41 and stay on it all the way to Osh in Kyrgyzstan . I think all of them are worth taking , you could do the Southern loop and come back to Khorog and then do the M41 . How to travel ? , the easiest way is to hire a jeep with a driver . This will be expensive , if you can find other people to form a group , it may be affordable , I was originally planning to do this , but never found more than one other person to join me . Using shared taxis ( usually SUVs , but also old Opels ) only gets you so far . You can get from Khorog to Ishkashim , or Murgab to Sary Tash , but you have to be very lucky to find them in the remote areas of the Pamirs , there are just not enough people travelling there . You can try to hitch , usually all cars and mini-buses still charge you something . On the M41 between Khorog and Murgab there are a few trucks every hour going to China . I hitched with several of them and they never wanted money . But in the Wakhan valley and between Murgab and Kyrgyzstan there are no trucks and very few cars . I remember one morning waiting at the side of the road not seeing a car for four hours either way . And finally you can cycle or walk . I started walking early in the morning and by 11 am when it got really hot I started hitching until I reached the next place with a homestay . How often to stop ? Besides Khorog only Murgab has one hotel . There are basic guest houses in Eshkashim and Jelandy , but otherwise it 's all homestays and there are not so many villages on the way . The tourist office in Khorog has a list of homestays , but I never used it . Whenever I got to a village it was easy to find a family that would take me in . There are many places to stop and do side trips on the way . Lots of hiking opportunities . I spent 17 days in the Pamir region , not long enough . If you have a hired jeep you can make it in two or three days from Khorog to Osh , but then you would n't stop much .
There are no international standards for airline transport of musical instruments . Each airline has its own policy as to what it will or wo n't accept as checked or cabin luggage , what its dimensions are or how large or heavy it can be , how much insurance might be required , what the baggage fee would be , and so on . So unfortunately , you will need to check with every airline in your itinerary as to their policies and fees . Bringing instruments on as hand luggage adds day-of-travel concerns as well ; if the scheduled plane is swapped for a smaller one at the last minute , you may no longer be able to take it aboard , or if you arrive late at a connection and all the overhead bin and other storage space is occupied , you 'd be asked to check the instrument or have to be rescheduled for a later flight . If you search around the web you will find innumerable horror stories ( one incident <URL> not long ago , although in fairness it could have happened on any airline ) . But you 'll also find personal accounts like <URL> ; newspaper articles like <URL> or this <URL> ; tips from musicians ' organizations such as the lists by the <URL> ; suggestions from manufacturers and retailers like <URL> ; and independent resources like <URL> . To summarize some of the common tips , consider the following : Contact each airline and explain you will be traveling with an instrument . For example , an airline might allow you to purchase an extra seat for a tuba or a bass , but may allow only one instrument per flight , which wo n't be obvious when you book online . For many airlines it is not possible to reserve an extra seat for a single person , meaning you will need to call and get a seat assignment anyway . Invest in a good travel case . Even though some instruments may be able to fit into standard luggage , they will generate less suspicion from security and more sympathy from gate agents and flight attendants if stored in a proper instrument case , not to mention enjoy better protection . The smallest case that will fit the instrument is advisable ; while that means it has less space for tools or cleaning fluids , those are probably best packed separately anyway as they can cause security screening delays . Purchase sufficient insurance . Be prepared to purchase an extra seat for it , if it is larger than a cello and you do n't want to check it . Some airlines forbid this , others require it . Be prepared and be patient . Bring printouts of each airline 's musical instrument policy . Arrive early and board as early as possible to maximize your storage options . But above all be friendly and patient with all airport , security , and airline personnel ; they can make any traveler 's experience difficult , but passengers with special requirements are an easier target . Within the United States , airlines are subject to federal <URL> requiring them to accept musical instruments as checked or carry-on luggage . One more thing : your instrument may be able to collect frequent flyer miles , but not always , and it 's become <URL> for airlines . Given all of that , it may be worth considering traveling with a backup instrument instead of your favorite , to borrow or rent an instrument at your destination , or use an alternative instrument ( e.g. a travel electric bass instead of your regular double bass ) . Of course , none of these options is a slam dunk , either .
My opinion is that a Paris Visite pass is hardly worth the money . If that 's true in your case is difficult to answer . Basically , you have to use the public transport quite heavily . The price of single metro ticket is 1.70 EUR and if you buy tickets by a batch of 10 ( " carnet " ) , the price goes down to 1.33 EUR per ticket . With that information in mind , take the Paris Visite pass you are interested in ( 1 , 2,3 or 5 days ) , and calculate how often you would be able to take the public transport on regular tickets , ot how many <URL> you would have to use . Example . A 2 day pass is 15.85 EUR . For a bit less than that , 15 EUR , you can buy 11 regular tickets ( 1 carnet and 1 single ticket ) . That 's a lot for two days , especially if you plan your sightseeing a bit rationally . And do n't let yourself fool by the discounts . Some are more sexy , some other are less sexy . Check precisely what the discounts are good for , check the prices . And check if you are interested in these at all ! Plan your sightseeing first , i.e. make a list of what your are interested in and see if that 's covered by the pass . Do n't do it the other way round . You might miss a lot !
Yes you will have to pay duty , as it is a new item that was purchased overseas . If you were at home , lost it and bought a new replacement , you will have paid Australian duty on that item , as the importer paid duty when it originally came from the factory ( and of course included the cost of that duty in the selling price you paid ) . In this case , if you buy it overseas Australia still wants its import duty . They do n't really care why you bought it again , only that duty is paid on products imported into the country . Your real question at this point ( and one likely only the insurance agency can answer ) is will your travel insurance provider pay both the replacement amount AND the subsequent duty you have to pay upon returning home , since they are both part of the " replacing the item " cost
It being the Lake District in June , you can expect rain , gorgeous sunshine , fog , wind , calm , hot and cold , so for the first part of your question : take layers of clothing , with an outer waterproof / windproof layer take a hat take sun screen take midge repellent That 's the UK for you - very variable :-) For the second part - I would suggest booking B&amp;B 's , especially if the 5 day forecast is good , as the route can get very busy very fast . There is a lot of accommodation along the route , but you do n't want to be stuck .
end question
start question
Will providing an incorrect suffix and prefix for a name ( Dr. , PhD ) on a flight ticket cause issues at the airport ?
That is extremely unlikely , since your id does n't show your title . I am expecting the ability to choose title has much more to do with how they address you in their e-mails . Also , TSA and equivalent organisations are n't paid to deal with academical fraud .
There are locations that fly to LHR that do not conform to international norms regarding international safety . Lagos , Nigeria , for example , does not conform to certain protocols , and Therefore is not considered secure . Rather than ferreting out individual flights , it is considered prudent simply to screen all passengers again .
No you ca n't turn up late to check-in on a delayed flight , unless the check-in closing time is delayed along with the departure time . Note that usually this is not the case . The check-in closing time is set relative to the scheduled departure , and usually remains the same , regardless of whether the flight is delayed or not . Hence if you show up at the airport late for check-in , even though you still have plenty of time before boarding due to the flight being delayed , you will be considered as a no-show . This happened to me a few years back on a snowy day in which all inbound and outbound flights to/from LHR were delayed . Several websites and forums mention this ( see <URL> and <URL> ) . However I believe <URL> to be more authoritative : We are unable to check in passengers arriving at the check-in desk after the check-in deadline . These passengers lose their entitlement to be carried on the flight and do not have any right of reimbursement , issue of a credit note or free rebooking . This check-in deadline will remain the same even if the departure of the flight is delayed . ( Emphasis mine ) Other airlines , including Emirates and British Airways , carry no mention of whether the check-in deadline can be modified , probably because they assume that when flights are delayed the check-in closing time does not vary . However they do mention that arriving late for check-in will cause you to be denied boarding in their Terms of Carriage . <URL> says : 6.3 You must comply with the applicable Check-in Deadline . We have the right to cancel your reservation if you do not comply with the Check-in Deadline or , if no Check-in Deadline has been indicated , you fail to check-in prior to closing of check-in for your flight . See also Article 5.7 . <URL> says : 6c ) You must check in by the check-in deadline If you do not complete the check-in process by the check-in deadline , we may decide to cancel your reservation and not carry you . By completing the check-in process we mean that you have received your boarding pass for your flight .
For UK based routes ( this is where I think you are , judging by your profile ) you can use <URL> . It 's also available as an app on most phone platforms ( Apple , Android , Windows Phone ) . Input your start and end points then when you get a route select the " Quietest Route " tab . That should give you either cycle paths or quieter roads .
Even if flexible return tickets are more expensive , it could be cheaper than two One-Way tickets , due to the way how airlines calculate their OW fares . You could also try to get a good fare which is not completely restricted ( e.g. changing the date for a fee like 100 $ ) , which could still be cheaper than flexible ones , even if you add the fee .
The front of my old passport ( which I had to change early because of USDHS new rules ) was pretty much unreadable like yours for several years , but immigration seemed unconcerned about it for the places I went to . I think they are probably much more concerned about the condition of the inside of the passport than the outside , so if your ID page is still intact , and all your visas and stamps are still legible , I do n't think you will have a problem . That said , the bigger issue often with older passports is that the photo might not look like you any more . I got mine when I was 17 and was still using it at 26 , so that did get me a few hard stares from immigration officers ( more often when I was returning home to the UK for some reason ) .
I called a cousin who works for an airline at an airport , he explained how to do this in a very safe and efficient way . Infants do not need a seat , airline require a fraction of the price paid by the adult to be paid for the infant ( ~ 10 % ) or sometimes it is free . Hence , just make the reservation for you and your wife and other passengers who need seats , and skip the infant . Once the infant is born and it is the day of the travel , head to the airport a bit early and issue the boarding for the baby on the spot , as I said earlier , airline staff will be happy to issue the boarding because there is no seat required and you can make the payment in the airport . The price should be a fraction of the that specific price you paid . So , no worries at all . Anyway , to his knowledge this is how it is done in the airline he works for and some other airlines , not sure if it is safe to assume all other airlines do it the same way , but according to him adding an infant who does not require a seat is something easy in many airline systems .
Yes , you can . And I did . I just tried it from my recent trip from Narita to Shanghai Pudong via Incheon transit . I first asked Asiana Airline via email if it is possible , and they answered I must call by phone to cancel the flight . Then I called , and the operator said I should cancel the flight at the check-in counter . They seemed to not cancel my flight at that time . Then at the time of check-in , I asked again and the staff there said I can , as long as I book another return ticket and show him the ticket . I did n't have another ticket , so I immediately tried to search for and booked my return ticket , which is from Incheon to Narita in 6 days after . He accepted it , but during him checking my ( original ) ticket , he said that I can change the date of the ticket ! . According to his explanation , I did n't have to book another return ticket ; I should just change the date of the ticket of the only Incheon to Narita part . Hmmm ... it 's too stressful . It meant that I replaced my Asiana ticket with the cheap LCC one and also lost my US$ 100 . Sigh ... My ignorance ... But if you want to ditch only the last part of your return flight , it is possible ! . NOTE : Because I just booked my flight shortly before the departure , and had n't booked my hotel , I got myself into the investigation room at immigration . You shall be better off expecting a slightly more demanding , scrutinizing inspection .
There are a few exceptions that I know of from the TSA , and these have to do with medication or disability assistance equipment ; and children 's formula baby food , etc. ( for the liquid restriction ) . All other prohibitions are not subject to exemptions . This is because some of the items are classified as hazardous material ( HAZMAT ) that need to carried by certified companies/equipment ; in other cases it is banned by the FAA for safety ; and finally because it can be considered a weapon . Your only recourse - if the item can not be checked in , is to have it shipped to your destination as cargo - and if it is hazmat it may not even be allowed to fly and will have to be driven there .
No issues as long as you put it in your checked luggage . Refer to <URL> page . Remember to pack extras of important health supplies in case of travel delays . This is especially important for items that may be difficult to get at your destination , like prescription medicines . Note that for special medicine/equipment like Needles or syringes , you may need a letter from your doctor .
In general , there 's no price difference for checking in at the airport or via any other means , although there can be price differences for other services ( eg baggage charges ) depending on where you pay for them - more on that below . There are , however , a small number of exceptions in the form of Low-Cost Carriers ( LCCs ) who are interested in squeezing every last possible cent out of you to make up for the low initial ticket price . Ryanair is the best known offender here , charging # 60 / $ 60 per person ( depending on the departure location ) to print/reprint your boarding pass at the airport . Spirit Airlines in the US also charges , but the fees are a little more sensible at $ 2 - $ 5 per person . The airline should list these fees on their website , so if you 're flying a LCC it 's certainly worth checking beforehand . Where many airlines do charge differently depending on where you pay for it is for check baggage - paying in advance will often be cheaper than paying at the airport . Normally you can still pay the baggage fees online and then check-in at the airport for no additional fee - as long as you 've paid the checked bag fee in advance . Spirit is ( again ! ) one of the best example of this - from November , taking a carry-on bag onto one of their flights will cost you $ 35 if paid in advance , $ 50 if done at check-in , and $ 100 if done at the gate ! Most other carries are not quite so high , but most LCC and even many normal carriers will have different prices for checked bags at the airport vs in advance .
Every ( tourist ) hostel in the old town of Cartagena in Colombia can arrange a taxi for you at any time . I would think any hotel can as well . If you 're on your own , you could try your best at calling a taxi company and arranging a pickup . But , asking for help at one of the tourist offices would probably be a better bet . Unless your Spanish is good . If you are comfortable walking through the old town in the middle of the night , taxis are waiting for rides on the eastern corner of the old town , near <URL> . I 've never been to the airport in Cartagena , but considering it 's not a small town , I would think that aiming for 4AM would not be a bad idea . But , that 's speculation .
Here are my experiences changing two letters of my last name : First and foremost , always keep a translated copy of the document that explains your name change . Just in case . In my case , it was actually not even a notarized copy . After I got a new passport , I had to get a new residence permit with a new name ( I was living in Germany with an Azerbaijani passport back then ) , but that was a very straightforward process . I also had to get my drivers renewed , also quite straightforward . I still have my diploma with my old name , but it was not an issue when I was applying for grad schools in US . I however supplied a copy of the document explaining my name change . While living in US , I had a social security number with my old name , got that replaced with no problems as well . Overall I do n't remember having any issues due to my name change , so I would say do n't worry about it .
As of January 2015 : Lounge = no , basic refreshments = yes There are two pertinent BAEC FlyerTalk threads covering this : <URL> <URL> Based on that , until the new terminal building is finished at some point in the next year , there is no lounge that BA is using . ( BA are n't using the Swissport one ) . On arriving at the terminal , you 'll clear first security , then get to checkin . After checking , you 'll then go through another set of security . Finally , after that , you 'll be directed to a waiting area at the gate . If you 're flying in First or Club World , or have suitable BA / OneWorld status , you 'll be directed into a different seating area . In here you 'll apparently find a trestle table with some refreshments on . Looks to be snacks , some soft drinks , some booze , and some newspapers . You can find photos of what it was like a few months ago in the threads
So your flight is an international flight . The airport is fairly small , with just 5-6 restaurants , has wifi and opens officially at 4.30 am in the morning . To make sure , I 'd always check the advice of the airport 's website itself . In this case , the official <URL> says : It is advised that you arrive at the airport in plenty of time . The length of time prior to departure depends on the airline , so remember to check what time that applies to you . The usual attendance times are . On that advice , I 'd try and get there at least a bit earlier - but would consider risking it if it was me . But understand that if you are late and were n't there 90 min beforehand , the airline is not likely to be sympathetic :(
Turkey and Armenia have strained relations for somewhat obvious reasons , but it 's not on the same level as , say , Israel and the Arab world . There have even been faltering moves in the last decade to try to heal the rift and ease towards increased trade , and where these have fallen down , it 's been as much to do with pressure on Turkey from Azerbaijan ( recently at war with Armenia and with an unresolved open conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh ) as direct emnity between Armenia and Turkey . Opposition to rebuilding trade with Turkey on the Armenian side is stronger from the ( influential ) Armenian diaspora than it is within unemployment-ravaged Armenia itself - it 's much easier to say " no compromise " when you 're the other side of the world to where the consequences are felt . For example , <URL> : Turkey has canceled the first ever scheduled Turkish flights to its long-time rival Armenia , days before the first plane was due to take off , officials have said , following fierce opposition from Turkey 's ally and energy partner Azerbaijan . The twice-weekly flights between Turkey 's eastern city of Van and the Armenian capital Yerevan were due to begin on April 3 and , encouraged by a U.S. push for rapprochement , were meant to boost bilateral tourism and trade . It 's possible to book flights from Turkey to Armenia ( albeit via Russia , usually ) , and buses from Turkey to Armenia ( albeit via Georgia ) . Of course it 's always possible you might encounter a particularly partisan individual border guard , who might use it as an excuse to make a fuss or try to obtain a bribe , but the airport is generally pretty professional by the standards of the region - when this sort of thing happens , it tends to be on the land border with Georgia . Such ( relatively rare ) situations can usually be resolved by staying calm , avoiding confrontation , and if necessary saying something like " I 'm sorry , I do not understand . May I speak to your supervisor ? " . In extreme cases , I 've heard stories of people turning such situations around with a disparaging comment or vulgar joke about the country that is the source of the anger , but for ethical reasons it 's best not to stoke and legitimatise this kind of nationalism unless you feel genuinely in danger and there 's no obvious alternative . I 've not known anyone feel the need to resort to this travelling into Armenia having travelled in Turkey , and definitely not in the airport - in fact , I think the incident I 'm thinking of , they were travelling into Azerbaijan having travelled in Armenia . The wounds from the Armenian-Azeri war are much fresher and more raw in the Caucasus itself than those between Armenia and Turkey . You wo n't need to do anything like this in the airport in Yerevan .
First of all : is it legal ? Well , I have never heard about such problems too . Regarding Chornogora - yep , it is a kind of national park , there are even some official fees at some entrances , but all camping activities are pretty much allowed . The only places you may have legal problems at are country borders ( like Marmarosy chain ) - usually you have to get permission from local border post . However , there also are real nation parks like <URL> - camping is actually forbidden there . Second , is there the real danger of being attacked or robbed ? Can the camp or the rucksacks be left unattented for a few hours ? Never heard about robbery in mountains . However , usually we try not to leave camp unattended ( or at least close all entrances , pick money and documents along , etc ) . Third : in case of emergency , is it possible to get help from emergency teams ? Never had such a case , but yes , it is possible , especially at popular \ dangerous routes . Here is contacts of local emergency teams - <URL> ( yep , in Ukrainian :( ) . Anyway , you would better have a native speaker with you on the track - it will be much easier just to ask locals about right way or even get yourself out of some troubles .
I have now made the trip and can therefore answer my own question . Yes , they do let you take the earlier Thalys train , but you will not have a seat reservation , so the trip may be less comfortable . Taking the earlier train may be seen as a trade-off between time and comfort . Getting to the earlier train in time was easy as I suspected . It took me less than 10 minutes to get off my plane , walk to the station , pick up my ticket at the NS desk and go down to the platform . I believe I would have been able to make it in time even with a slight delay and/or checked-in luggage . Both the guy at the ticket counter and the staff at the platform told me that I would be allowed on the earlier train if it was not full . The staff on the train told me that there would be no empty seats for part of the trip , but that I could always stand in the restaurant car . I was able to sit down from Schiphol to Rotterdam and from Antwerp to Brussels , but on the Rotterdam-Antwerp leg all seats were reserved and occupied , so I had to stand in the restaurant car for roughly a third of the trip . There were 4 of us standing there , so I was not the only one lacking a seat reservation . I got the impression that this was standard practice and that they would normally always let you on the earlier train , but that there was no explicit guarantee . I can imagine that they reserve the right to decline if for instance the train gets really packed . It was definitely worth it for me to take the earlier train , since I was on a tight schedule and I really did n't mind standing for part of the trip . On the other hand , if you ´ re not in a hurry and you do n't mind spending an extra hour in Schiphol , having a seat reservation would probably make your train ride more enjoyable . Taking the earlier train probably does n't always mean that you have to stand for part of the trip , and you can always ask before you get on if it means you will have to stand .
The " E " in ETA stands for " Electronic " , and that pretty much refers to the entire process . Not only do you apply electronically ( eg , on the <URL> ) , but the airlines are responsible for electronically checking that you have obtained an ETA or a Visa . Presuming that your previous flights to Australia have been from the US , you may recall that whilst you were waiting to board the flight they were calling specific people to the podium for a " documentation check " - these are for the people where they have not been able to confirm that they have an ETA , and they will be required to check that they do have the relevant approval to enter Australia ( such as a physical visa ) . Once you actually arrive in Australia the Immigration staff are able to see that you have a current ETA electronically , and thus do not need to see any further details from you . If you do n't have an ETA ( or a Visa , etc ) then you will not be allowed to board the plane - it is the airline 's responsibility to confirm that you have an ETA before they let you on the flight , and in general they will be fined if they do not so do n't expect to be able to talk your way on ! One minor point of semantics , what you have is not an " ETA Visa " , it 's an " Electronic Travel Authority " , or " ETA " . The ETA is specifically NOT a " Visa " as such . The distinction is n't normally all that important , and you 'll frequently hear people refer to it as an " ETA Visa " , but technically it 's not correct . The main place where this becomes relevant is if your application for an ETA is denied and you have to apply for a Visa instead . When filling out the Visa application one of the questions is whether you 've ever been denied a visa for Australia before , and then answer will be NO , despite being denied an ETA - because the ETA is NOT a visa !
If I buy a standard ticket , do I have to specify a date or even a time when I want to visit it ? Yes you have to specify both date and one of the 30 minutes time slots . You have to stick to the time slot you booked , you 'd better not be late . Buy it online to get the discount . Standard ticket or fast track ? Standard ticket by all means . In 2010 , during the festive period of Christmas/New Year 's Eve the queue was only 20 people long when I took the ride . It is not worth buying the fast track , even if it is pouring down or whatever . The " London Eye View 360º " on its own costs 1 GBP , you can buy it separately ( it 's included in the fast track price ) . Source : own experience
end question
start question
Can I register a private visa in Russia without person who invited me ?
As someone who has undergone the registration process many times ( including as recently as the end of 2014 ) , I can tell you that the " invitation letter " ( or anything to do with your invitation ) is completely irrelevant to the registration process - it is NOT on the list of documents required to register you as a foreigner . The person registering you can be anyone ( but they do have to have proof of ownership of the property where you 're being registered ) .
As someone who has undergone the registration process many times ( including as recently as the end of 2014 ) , I can tell you that the " invitation letter " ( or anything to do with your invitation ) is completely irrelevant to the registration process - it is NOT on the list of documents required to register you as a foreigner . The person registering you can be anyone ( but they do have to have proof of ownership of the property where you 're being registered ) .
I do n't think the Family Visit Visa is an option for 2 reasons , based on the published <URL> . Reason 1 : Ineligible family relationship The list of people who can be visited under a Family visa is given as : spouse or civil partner children parents or siblings grandparents or grandchildren your spouse 's or civil partner 's siblings or parents your child 's spouse or civil partner step parents , step children or step siblings a person you 've been living with in a long-term relationship , as if you were married or in a civil partnership , for at least 2 years before the day you apply A cousin is none of those things . Reason 2 : Ineligible residency status The family member being visited must be one of : a British citizen settled in the UK granted asylum in the UK under humanitarian protection in the UK You 're not a British citizen , and I do n't think being in the UK on a short-term visa yourself counts as being " settled in the UK " . The other 2 options are presumably not relevant either .
Yes , it 's possible , because , as of June 2015 , Romania is not ( yet ) part of the Schengen area ( they almost certainly wo n't be in the next few months but they are supposed to join some time in the future ) . It 's best to have a short layover and to book the whole trip at once to make sure you wo n't have to collect your luggage in Frankfurt but sterile transit is otherwise not a problem , even at night . Incidentally , you probably already figured out that your US visa exempts you from the airside transit visa requirement in Germany but your Romanian visa would also be enough so you have not only one but two ways to qualify for this exemption !
<URL> is excellent for the general case , but I 'd like to add some specifics , since you mention this is in China . This guy was trying to sell you transportation service . This is a very popular way for people with cars to make money , because just getting tags ( i.e. current stickers , registration , license plates , etc. ) is both expensive and difficult , easily costing ten to fifty thousand yuan , plus there are a limited number available . That 's just tags , mind , so it 's on top of the cost of the actual vehicle . Having a car in China is both very expensive and a significant status symbol . Technically , he 's breaking the law by operating as an unlicensed taxi , but the reality in China is that nobody cares as long as nothing egregiously illegal happens . Touts in China are aggressive , especially for something as completely fungible as a taxi ride , and especially to foreigners ( I 'm guessing you are n't ethnically Chinese or are somehow otherwise obviously not a local ) . Following a likely person ( e.g. foreign , relatively wealthy ) around to try to convince them to buy is extremely common . The idea is to pester you until you give in and pay for a ride just to shut them up . The best way to deal with them is to refuse to acknowledge them at all . Do n't say anything to them , do n't look at them , just act as if they do n't exist and walk quickly past . If they are really insistent despite this , turn around and say " No ! " loudly and firmly . Do n't be afraid to put a bit of edge in your tone and assume an angry countenance ; this will make it crystal clear that you really mean no . As opposed to being polite and friendly ( " oh , that sounds nice , but no thanks " ) , which will be taken as a signal that they should work harder to convince you . Unlicensed taxis are quite common in China ; there 's nothing unseemly or shady about taking one , though they are less popular than official taxis with the locals , what with being technically illegal and all . However , it 's definitely better to take a regular taxi if you 're a tourist , have language difficulties , or are generally unfamiliar with the area . Not because they 'll kidnap you or some such thing , but because you 'll get taken for a ride metaphorically as well as literally ; i.e. end up paying a hefty " tourist tax " . Official cabs have meters and posted signs about the cost , so you know how much it should be ( though that 's not to say they do n't have tricks they can pull to up the price ) , while prices in an unlicensed taxi are always negotiable ( and usually higher than an official cab ) . Taking a proper cab also means you know the driver has a license , is more likely to know how to get where you want to go , and has at least some skill operating the vehicle . On the other hand , the illegal taxis are much easier to hail and will operate at hours when regular taxis wo n't . So if you really want a ride right at that moment ...
Yes , Brazil requires visa applicants from the US to <URL> . They explicitly state that they do not accept applications by mail . No visa applications will be accepted by mail . When you finish filling out the electronic visa application form , print the application receipt , glue your picture on it , sign on the appropriate field and bring your application receipt form along with the other required documents to the Consulate . The <URL> is in Miami , so it would require one visit to Miami . You would not be able to apply in New York or any other consulate . Fortunately you do n't have to go back to Miami later to pick up your passport ; <URL> if you leave a postage paid envelope with them . In order to save you a second trip to Miami to pick up your passport , you may leave a prepaid self-addressed Priority Mail Express envelope from the USPS ( United States Postal Service , the Post Office ) for the return of your passport . The envelope must have a tracking number . The Consulate does not accept envelopes from other companies such as FEDEX , DHL or UPS .
No , you ca n't use PackStation as a transient traveler . To use it , you must be able to pre-register and then receive the registration materials via mail . So you must be in one place long enough to complete this process ( a few weeks minimum ) . I do n't remember whether you actually have to show proof of residency , but the above practical problem will prevent you from using PackStation if you are only " passing through " .
I 'm answering as a frequent traveler to Russia ( have been to many different cities there over the course of many years ) . First , in all my travels and interactions with Russian authorities , I have never once been asked by any government official for any registration papers ( though I 've always registered when required by law ) . A lot of the scary warnings about registering in Russia date back to the early 2000s , when the laws were much stricter and it was a real possibility to be stopped in the streets of Moscow by police for a random registration check ( as I understand it , such checks are illegal now ) . Registration law has undergone a lot of changes over the years , most notably the official Federal Migration Service site mentions a significant change/relaxation of the law in 2007 ( see <URL> in Russian ) Having said all of the above , here is my understanding of the information on the site above , as well as of the text of the law itself ( <URL> ) : If you 're staying in a hotel ( even for one day ) , the hotel will register you Otherwise , you 're required to register within 7 days of arrival to your " place of stay " ( " место пребывания " ) . It is reasonable to interpret it as " within 7 days of arriving to a particular city " ( there is other mention in the law of being able to change the " place of stay " so I 'm guessing " place of stay " does NOT mean the " final destination " of the trip ) . Sadly , however , there 's no clarification of this anywhere in the law . I guess it would be up to a judge/local authorities to interpret , but again - I do n't think realistically this is a problem . In your situation , I would just keep all the travel documentation and not worry about registering . Confusingly , the English-language page ( <URL> ) does mention registration within 7 days of arriving in Russia ( with no mention of the " place of stay " ) , but I 'm pretty sure this is just a poor translation , or instructions for the common case of someone visiting a single place in Russia . In any case , the English page is not the actual law . If you want to be super-safe , spend your 1st night in a hotel/hostel ( this way you technically are registered in the first 7 days since your arrival ) . Given how confusing this area of the law is , you of course wo n't be immune from random annoyances given your registration-less status . I can think of one example where this happened to me : A hotel clerk ( in a proper , expensive , Western-style hotel ) refused to register me because I have n't registered anywhere within 7 days of arriving into Russia ( because I was hopping from city to city ) - basically , they took the interpretation of the law as stated on the English page above - however , this happened just once , and I do n't think the hotel clerk was an expert on migration law , I think she was just trying to play it safe in the face of confusing information Please keep in mind that I 'm not a lawyer ( especially not a Russian one ) Registration has been an unpleasant and time-consuming process every time I 've done it ( trying to fit into the local FMS office 's schedule , lineups , complex forms that have to be refilled multiple times until you get it just right , extensive documentation requirements - proof of apartment ownership and such , etc ) . It 's worth avoiding it if at all possible .
There are two aspects to the question : EU countries are extremely unlikely to put specific restrictions on entry by dual citizens . It 's never been done nor discussed and would raise many questions . There is a general difference in philosophy at play here , US authorities routinely look at the country of birth for many purposes ( e.g. security clearances ) whereas European countries do not do that in the same way ( being a citizen trumps everything else ) . It would not make sense as retaliation for the recent changes to the US visa waiver program either . In any case , nothing has been announced and such a new rule would require an extensive rewriting of the Schengen regulations , which can not happen overnight without anyone noticing , given the way the EU decision process works . EU/Schengen countries are also very unlikely to put a blanket restriction on entry by all US citizens . This would in fact make sense as a retaliatory measure ( or to protest other restrictions like the ESTA requirement or the fact that citizens from some EU countries are still not eligible for the VWP ) and would be easier to implement ( just a matter of removing the US from one list and adding it to another ) . But it would also jeopardize visa-free access to the US for all EU citizens and neither the treatement of Bulgarians , Poles and others nor that of dual Iranian-something citizens seem to be enough for other member states to take that risk . Of course , that 's not a certainty ( what is in this area ? ) but until now the EU has only been able to complain a bit , with member states delaying any serious action and I feel fairly safe in predicting that it will continue that way . Case in point , the regulation cited by Tor-Einar Jarnbjo contains some pretty strong language but always had possibilities to delay actual restrictions pretty much indefinitely baked in and , sure enough , several ostensibly crucial deadlines have passed without any agreement to go beyond empty protestations .
That would be at the discretion of the security screeners . They have methods of verifying your identity even if you have no ID at all ( some people forget their wallet ) . If you have a passport , bring that . Otherwise I would expect an expired license will not prevent you from being boarded . As a matter of law , an expired license only affects your right to drive . Your identity does not " expire " .
Having a UK indefinite leave to remain has nothing to do in this case , only the passport you have determines if you need a Schengen visa or not and since you have a South African passport you 'll need to apply for a Schengen visa in advance . Sources : <URL> <URL>
A couple of resources that I find useful : <URL> : A comprehensive listing of visa , health , customs ( in its British English , not American English , definition ) for different destinations compiled by IATA . I have found this is fairly accurate . The form , however , is cumbersome as it asks you to fill in far too many details than required . <URL> : I discovered this website fairly recently . It 's simple in that it allows you to choose what country 's passport you hold , and then show a list of countries that have visa-free or visa-on-arrival entry . This is good for a brief overview use it with caution . As of now , it sometimes misses out information that might affect visas due to residency status either way ; sometimes , it 's harder ( you need to go back to country of nationality ) and sometimes it 's easier ( you can get visa-free/on-arrival holding a passport of one country if you 're considered a resident of another ) .
I think a better solution would be to go to your doctor before the trip and ask for a prescription and a letter explaining the diagnosis and the need . While in some countries a foreign prescription will be honored , in many it wo n't , and then you 'll have to go to a local doctor ( make sure your travel insurance covers it ) to get a local prescription . That 's when a letter from your doctor may come in handy . Make sure its written in an international language ( English/French/Spanish ) , preferably native to the areas you 're expecting to have troubles at . I do n't think its possible to answer your question directly without knowing exactly what medicine you 're talking about .
Unfortunately , I do not have a positive answer to this question . I have been looking around the web for a few days now and I am almost sure there is no such museum . I have been through the <URL> with the help of Google Translate but with no luck . There is not even one comment about such a museum in any website . I think I can safely say such a museum does NOT exist in South Korea .
Wow . . that 's a tough one . The official documents are online at the <URL> but ( naturally ) they 're all in Georgian and even Google Translate could n't help me find anything there of note . There 's an <URL> but they lack the detailed document search you need to find information this specific . Meanwhile , the US Department of State has this to say in their <URL> : They do n't mention knives at all but perhaps absence of evidence is evidence of absence in this case . Then there 's the completely unofficial , anecdotal accounts I 've turned up elsewhere on the web : Centurion , a hostile environment training provider , <URL> . ( To be taken with salt due to their business interests . ) This article in the <URL> also claims many students now carry knives to school due to an increase in bullying . ( Does n't mention if it 's legal . ) The author of <URL> , suggests Swiss Knives and Leathermans as good gifts for a host family . ( Might be stupid . ) These are about as far as you can get from an official source but they do paint the picture of a society either without strong concealed weapon laws or at least very poor enforcement . It may just be that my Google-Fu is weak today but I get the distinct feeling Georgia does n't have any knife laws to speak of . ( Oh but obviously do n't take them in your carry on ! )
When in doubt , follow the instructions given by the foreign consulate . You ca n't really go wrong ; worst case , they 'll tell you what to do and it should n't be a radical difference from the posted information . They seem to process things very quickly , and the process is very similar to the process for getting a US visa from Canada ( which I 've done ) . So I will answer as if you have not read the page you linked :P Yes , <URL> . <URL> ( possibly now outdated ) has the details for the " L " tourist visa . Previously the submission requirements included : Your US passport and a copy of its information page A photo of yourself , subject to the usual requirements of size etc. . The completed visa application form $ 130
Thailand enforces a 500 Baht/day fine for overstaying a visa . Although this is technically due for each day that you overstay including the first , it is often waived for overstaying only a single day . If you were to overstay by 2 days you can guarantee that you 'd be hit with a 1000 baht fine , and so on up to a maximum fine of 20,000 baht . They also stamp your passport with an " overstay " stamp to record the fact that you overstayed . Whilst this will not block you from entering the country in the future , if you are found to overstay a second time you can expect additional action to be taken . Again it 's likely that they will not stamp your passport for a 1 day overstay . Even though this fine seems relatively low ( for a few days at least ) , it is NEVER a good idea to overstay a visa . The fine applies if you are " caught " at the airport when departing the country . If you are caught elsewhere in Thailand you can expect to be jailed for at least a day or two , and then deported from the country . Again this is not likely to be an issue for a single day overstay , but for a longer overstay it could be !
The vast majority of UK rail fares are " settled " between <URL> through a central system called the <URL> ( RSP ) . When you do a search on <URL> you will see RSP fares ( some exceptions may include some <URL> fares ) . TOCs can discount certain TOC-only Advance fares ( i.e. Advance fares that are for routes wholly within their TOC franchise area ) in order to attract customers to book directly with them rather than with a third-party retailer like TheTrainline ( or another TOC ) . The TOC still has to pay the full pre-agreed price through RSP , meaning that they will be making a loss on these discounted fares ( offsetting the loss as a marketing cost because the customer is likely to book directly with them again in future ) . Rather than selling tickets to individual customers , " rail-appointed agents " are usually <URL> buying tickets on behalf of corporate travellers ( see <URL> ) . My understanding is that agents can only issue fares via RSP just like any TOC or online third-party retailer , and do not have access to any special fares . It is therefore likely that you have discovered some sort of anomaly and it is not actually possible to purchase the fare . However , if you are able to provide further information about the TOC and the fare in question I will be able to provide a more precise answer . The regulation of fares and the franchising system in general is a mess and there are some odd exceptions to the rules , and so it would be worth providing more detail . To answer your question about Loco2 , if and when we start selling UK rail we would unfortunately be unlikely to be able to offer any special fares , only what is available in RSP ( i.e. the prices you see on National Rail or TheTrainline etc ) . A " rail-appointed travel agent " is an offline agent , whereas as a third-party online retailer ( whilst still an " agent " ) connects its software to the RSP system somehow . Loco2 would count as the latter .
No , you ca n't use Bicing bikes . Only locals can use it , the membership card takes 15 days to arrive . The membership card is personal , and ca n't be lended . Also , you need a Spanish address , and you pay 48 euros for a whole year .
No , you can not . Apart from very specific circumstances , visas must be obtained in advance from your country of usual residence .
end question
start question
Under which conditions should I buy an extra ticket for my luggage on public transport in Sofia ?
Here 's an excerpt from the current <URL> ( last revision 01.01.2011 ) on the official website of the Urban Mobility Center in Sofia . You would usually find the terms also on the back of the driver 's cabin ( in Bulgarian ) , on an A2 poster filled with a wall of text . Art. 9 ( 1 ) A passenger who holds a valid transport document has the right to free transit of hand luggage of dimensions of up to 60x40x40 cm . The measurement is taken using a measuring tool . The charge for each piece of luggage of dimensions exceeding those specified above is : one single trip ticket ( bought in advance from the driver or from on-board ticket vending machine in trams and trolleybuses ) So , in effect , you should n't be having problems unless you have bags with larger dimensions ( in either direction ) , or more than one of them . I lived in Sofia for more than three years , and bought tickets for my baggage maybe less than 50 % of the times when I was supposed to . You will rarely get into trouble for this if you are not obstructing a sitting place or if the vehicle is not full .
The six-month validity rule , and similar rules requiring passports to be valid beyond the date of arrival or anticipated date of departure apply only to people visiting countries other than their own . Or , alternatively , countries apply these rules only to foreign passports . The point of having such a rule is likely to avoid having foreigners in the country temporarily with expired passports . Passports can take a long time to replace , and such a person might be forced to overstay in such a situation . For requirements at " different transit locations , " the question is too broad ; there are literally hundreds of countries which will all have different rules . Even limiting it to airport hubs , the question still covers dozens of jurisdictions .
If you rented the car with a credit card , you will have signed something that says they can charge these things to your credit card and it 's not disputable . The only speed-camera ticket I ever got was in a rental car ( and they tacked on a handling fee to boot . ) It took weeks to come through , but it came as a charge on my credit card . If you had driven your own car on the 407 and then not paid the toll , there would be consequences for the car . ( At one point , you could n't renew your license plates if you had outstanding tolls against that plate . ) Presumably the car people have paid the toll so that their car can still function . You now owe them the money . I am completely sure you 've signed something that holds you liable for these charges . Since you 're describing an invoice , you must have rented the car with cash or cheque . Whether to pay or not now is no different than if you had ordered something and then not paid for it once it was delivered . The country as a whole is not in the habit of enforcing these sorts of debts , so you probably wo n't be nabbed at the border , but you can be certain that the rental company will keep track of you . If they hand the debt to a collection company , it 's possible the collector would find it worthwhile to harass you from a distance . They can be pretty nasty . To me it 's simple . You signed that you would pay such things . Pay it . If it 's a lot of money and you ca n't afford it right now , contact them and tell them so , and arrange to pay it over time . But pay it . And next time stay off the toll highways ( they 're clearly signed ) if it 's not your intention to pay the toll .
Excess baggage fees are normally per flight but there are variations . In general , fees are charged at check-in time , so they end-up per check-in in most cases . If have to check-in separately for one leg of your flight , you will often be asked to pay the extra fee again . Arguing could help but in my experience they rarely budge , particularly if they are not the same airline as the previous leg . In practice this means : Try to check you baggage and have it tagged all the way through . Even if you have flights back-to-back , as opposed to legs , you can ask the check-in agent to tag the baggage to your final destination while makes it possible to even skip an excess baggage fee .
No you do n't need to claim and recheck your bags . For future reference at Changi , if you 're flying with SQ on the same ticket they will transfer them for you . <URL> the answer from their Twitter : Are both flights booked under the same booking ref ? If yes , the baggage will be check through to the final destination .
Coaches in Cuba - Astro and Viazul There are two main coach companies providing island-wide transport in Cuba : AstroBus and <URL> . Astro caters mostly to Cuban residents and intrepid travellers . Most of the seats are available for purchase only to residents with a valid ID , and just a few are available for foreigners albeit at higher rates . Overall its fares , quoted in local currency , are cheaper and , although recently upgraded , its fleet of coaches offer slightly less comfort with respect to its competition . Viazul bus fares , quoted in , are slightly more expensive , in exchange for an air-conditioned ( sometimes too much ) coach with washrooms and televisions . <URL> , these coaches are more reliable than Astro , cover most of the interesting tourist destinations , and adhere to a pre-established timetable ( i.e. buses try to be on time as often as possible ) . <URL> : Víazul is Cuba 's hard currency bus line and is by far the best choice of public transportation to tour the island . They run comfortable air-conditioned long-distance coaches with washrooms and televisions to most places of interest to tourists . The buses are getting a bit grubby , but they are reliable and punctual . Complete schedules can be found on the Viazul website ( the Varadero - Santa Clara - Cienfuegos - Trinidad and return service is missing from the website but runs daily ) . The buses can be used theoretically by anyone , including Cubans , but in reality , few Cubans can afford the convertable peso fares . Reservations can be made in advance , but are usually unnecessary except at peak travel times . Do not waste your time making an on-line reservation on the website -- that feature rarely works . Refreshments are not served , despite what the website says , but the buses stop for meal breaks at highway restaurants with bad food . ( Bring your own food ! ) The buses are often over air conditioned , so bring along something warm to wear . Note that most westbound buses from Santiago de Cuba run overnight . Trains There is a train network in Cuba which covers most of the island . Below is a map of the Cuban rail network , <URL> : However , according to various sources on the web , it 's organisation and reliability are a matter of opinion . <URL> : The main train line in the country runs between Havana and Santiago de Cuba , with major stops at Santa Clara and Camagüey . Trains also run to other cities such as Cienfuegos , Manzanillo , Morón , Sancti Spiritus , and Pinar del Rio . There is one reliable train in Cuba : the overnight Tren Francès between Havana and Santiago de Cuba , which runs on alternate days . It uses equipment that was formerly operated on the Trans-Europe Express , and donated to Cuba by France a few years ago ( hence the name ) . There are first class and special first class seats on this train ( the special seats are better and more expensive ) , but no sleepers . If only one train in Cuba is running , this will be it . All other trains in Cuba are unreliable . The equipment is often in poor condition , breakdowns are common , and when they occur , you can be stuck for the better part of the day ( or night ) waiting for a replacement engine . There are no services on the trains , so bring plenty of food and water with you . Trains are frequently cancelled . Some trains offer first class seats ( do n't expect too much ) ; others have second class seats , which can be very uncomfortable . Schedules are at best optimistic and should always be checked in advance of travel . There are no sleepers on overnight routes . If you are still thinking of taking a train , other than the Tren Francès , you should know that many Cubans prefer to hitchhike than take the train . If you are still determined to take a train , approximate schedules are given under the different city descriptions . Foreginers must pay much higher fares ( which is still very cheap ) than the locals . Tickets are roughly two-thirds what Viazul charges . Theft is a problem so watch your luggage ! Hitch-hiking Hitch-hiking is a valid alternative form of transportation which is widely used in Cuba by both locals and tourists , and hence is surprisingly well organised . Indeed there are dedicated , manned , pick-up points for hitch-hikers . These Yellow Points ( Punto Amarillo ) are found both inside the city , on the outskirts , and on certain highway routes . Tell the man-in-yellow your destination and he will hail a vehicle for you . Once he finds you a ride , you pay the man , which is a government official , and contribute to the Cuban economy whilst getting a ride to your next destination . Note that you 'll need to chew some Spanish language to use this service efficiently - you want to make sure the man-in-yellow understands your destination correctly . <URL> : The Cuban government 's system for facilitating hitchhiking is by far the most economical way for foreigners to travel in Cuba , though a flexible schedule and good Spanish are a must . Known as " El Amarillo " ( " the yellow guy " ) for the yellowy-bei
You 're asking for opinions , which are very personal . But ... Peru has plenty to offer . You 're probably flying into Lima , but not one person I 've ever spoken to who has been to Lima has said it was a city worth visiting . Because of that , I skipped it on my trip this year ( though I am stopping by next year ) . Distances in Peru ( and South America ) are huge . You 'll lose a lot of time moving from major Peruvian site to major Peruvian site . Adding Brazil to your itinerary will only give you less time to actually see and do things . Yes , Rio is very much worth a visit , but as you found out , flying between Peru and Brazil is prohibitively expensive . If you want to get to Brazil on the cheap , you can take a bus via Cusco to Puerto Maldonado from where you can get to Rio Branco , which is just across the border in Brazil . From Rio Branco , you can get budget airlines to Rio or any other Brazilian destination of your choice . But , this is a time consuming process . Yes , the Amazon experience in Peru ( yes , you can visit the Amazon in Peru , too ) is decidedly different ( and not necessarily worse ) from what you can get in Brazil . But , to get to the Brazilian Amazon from Peru either will cost you plenty of time ( overland ) or money ( flying a complex route to get to Manaus , most likely ) . My advice would be that if you can set aside 20 days , spend them in Peru and , perhaps , Ecuador . Or , if you really want some diversity , take overland transport to Bolivia .
<URL> What Is Not Covered By Rome Travel Passes For buses , you can only use the Rome travel passes on the city buses . You can not use them on the Rome hop on , hop off sightseeing buses or the airport buses to either of Rome 's airports . On the trains the entire Metro system is covered and local services in the city of Rome district are also covered . The travel passes do not cover any of the trains to Fiumicino Airport , the main airport for Rome , this includes the Leonardo Express train running non-stop between Fiumicino Airport and Rome 's Termini Station . You can not use the travel passes on the trains to and from Rome 's cruise port , Civitavecchia , which is a long way outside Rome . Some more information on this from <URL> The CIS will work on the FR1 ( FM1 ) . It is the same price as the 2 zone CIRS . However , the CIS may not be valid all the way to the Airport , in which case you will need the regional pass , a 3-zone CIRS which is 7 euros more . And . . For an ' official ' confirmation The Roma Pass website has a PDF which shows that the limit to the FR1 train is two stations before the FCO station . CONNECTIONS TO AND FROM AIRPORTS ( Leonardo Express train , FR1 train , local urban services ) ARE NOT INCLUDED IN THE TWO CARDS . <URL>
Here 's an excerpt from the current <URL> ( last revision 01.01.2011 ) on the official website of the Urban Mobility Center in Sofia . You would usually find the terms also on the back of the driver 's cabin ( in Bulgarian ) , on an A2 poster filled with a wall of text . Art. 9 ( 1 ) A passenger who holds a valid transport document has the right to free transit of hand luggage of dimensions of up to 60x40x40 cm . The measurement is taken using a measuring tool . The charge for each piece of luggage of dimensions exceeding those specified above is : one single trip ticket ( bought in advance from the driver or from on-board ticket vending machine in trams and trolleybuses ) So , in effect , you should n't be having problems unless you have bags with larger dimensions ( in either direction ) , or more than one of them . I lived in Sofia for more than three years , and bought tickets for my baggage maybe less than 50 % of the times when I was supposed to . You will rarely get into trouble for this if you are not obstructing a sitting place or if the vehicle is not full .
Simple answer : It depends ! In general , in physics , pressure on shorter structures has less chances of bending/breaking them . For exmaple , you can bend a metal stick of 1m length easier than a nail of the same diameter . So if you have pressure coming from above , the shortest edges should be vertical to maximise the resistance against the pressure . If you have a smaller luggage , the difference in centimeter between the various sides is smaller and therefore it does not matter so much which side it is on . Chances are high that the luggage will lie on top of others , or that luggages on top will be larger and therefore the pressure will not be on a small spot in a large surface but rather covering the whole surface of your luggage and thus the pressure is on the outer frame which is more stable than the center of the surface . However if you have a very large ( and thin ) luggage , you might not want to lie it on the larger surface since chances are high that a luggage lying on top is smaller and therefore not putting pressure on the more stable outer edges of the frame but on the softer center of the cover . The luggage might deform over time .
Only the March 29th and the April 1st are bank holidays in Spain . Between them there is a weekend that may be affected . Also the March 28th is bank holiday in some regions . There are not less transports in buses and trains , really there are more than a normal day , but there is more people trying to take it . In my experience , you should book your long distance transport one week before or you will have problems these days ( and maybe the 3-4 days previous and the 3-4 days next ) . Anyway , Andalucia will be the most affected region . About the Morocco ferries , the same applies . You can check the timetables and <URL> .
You do not need a return ticket , as long as you can show a proof ( e.g. , letter ) that says come and collect your residency card ; In case the staff ask you about the intent of your trip to Denmark .
For EN 446 , no It 's a night train and they do not want people to get on in Potsdam . <URL> , and they responded . ( I had a typo in the train-number . ) <URL> Here 's a free translation to English : Me : Why ca n't I book EC446 from Cologne to Frankfurt/Oder online although it stops there ? DB : Do you mean EN 446 ? In Potsdam we do n't plan for people to get on , only off . That 's why this station can not be booked . Me : Yes , that one . Can I book from Frankfurt and get on in Potsdam anyway ? DB : No , because in Potsdam only deboardings are planned , not boardings ;-) Me : Are there bouncers ? Can I get on later in regular ICE trains ? For example if I have a ticket from Berlin to Cologne , can I get on in Spandau or Wolfsburg ? DB : Our people are on the platform . Of course you can get on later , but remember that seat reservations are forfeit after 15 minutes . So we can conclude that on this particular train , you can not do that . We do n't know why exactly , but if you try anyway and they catch you , they might not let you in . In general , yes You can always leave early or get on late in regular trains . Your tickets with Deutsche Bahn give you the right to be on the train ( or any train on a direct route ) between two stations . They frequently do not check tickets between two or more given stations . There is no way for the conductor to tell if you sat there for one station , two stations or longer if they are passing through the carriage for the first time to check tickets after the fourth station . It can also happen that you get never checked because you got on at the other end of the train and get off at the next station while they are still busy somewhere else . The above Twitter conversation confirms this personal experience . Bonus-Information : If that happens and your printed ticket does not get checked/clipped your City-Ticket in the destination might not be valid . You need to go get it stamped at the information desk in the destination station or local public transport might fine you for not having a ticket .
From Easyjet on <URL> ' If you 've already selected seats , these will automatically be transferred to your new flight so no worries . ( 1/2 ) If the seats you chose are no longer available , we 'll allocate the closest match we can find . Any issue , please DM . Anna <URL> Hope this helps .
It is indeed impossible to buy tickets online at the website of the Dutch railways . One exception is maybe the international subdivision <URL> , but only if your journey involves crossing a border . You could though buy your Dutch railway tickets online at the <URL> . They use the same booking systems , and the online tickets have the same format . Only the Belgian railways do accept credit cards .
Good luck if you want to take a bus in Marrakech ... According to the Moroccan Airports Authority there is <URL> . This shuttle is running at an hourly frequency , between 6.25 am and 12.25 am on the following route : Departure Airport - Hivernage - Jemaa El Fna - Bab Doukkala - Gueliz - ONCF Station - Arrival Airport The one-way ticket costs 30 MAD and the round trip 50 MAD . There is a place not far from the Jemaa El Fna square where you can catch the main city buses . On the other hand , note that the main sights can and must be visited on foot . For instance , there is no bus crossing the Medina . If you want to go to a place a bit outside , such as the Majorelle Gardens , you can take a so-called small taxi . These taxis have meters , and the drivers are supposed to use them ( you have to insist ) . Note that 25 MAD will take you rather far already .
It is always hard to tell about safety because people have very different criteria about safety . Having used the public transportation , buses in particular , in San Francisco , including poorer neighborhoods , I would consider it safe . I am a tall white man though , so the feeling of security might be different . San Francisco buses are the places that show the variety of the population the most . You can see rich Silicon Valley people with fancy clothes as well as homeless people smelling pee and carrying their home on their back . All this wide range of the society circulates peacefully on the buses , with few altercations in my opinion . The bus drivers in particular are very patient , and seem to have authority on the buses they drive . At night , you might want to avoid the buses a bit more , depending on your feelings . The bus 91 , which tours around the city , is a moving hotel . The bus is filled with homeless people sleeping on the seats . This is still safe to me , no fight or whatever ever happened while I was on the bus but you might not feel as comfortable . I do not know much about the BART , but I heard incidents may happen at night . Well like everywhere , there are always risks . Regarding the Caltrain , as @Spehro mentioned , it is safe , filled with commuters in general - some with expensive bikes . But I doubt you will use it to visit the area . Overall , you will be safe , even though I would recommend you not to show off your valuables too much ( it is a rule that applies to every public place in the world , in my opinion ) . If you are not comfortable with poverty , you can as well rely on cabs , faster - but more expensive . My opinion is that I love San Francisco buses for seeing all the society there , I have never seen that anywhere else . I consider it a tourist attraction by itself .
Ticket machines ( for trains ) are not very common in Poland , you 'd rather buy one at the counter . However , it is also possible that the counter will be closed ( depending on how big the station is and what time of day it is ) - in that case you can buy a ticket aboard from the train conductor , you should do this as soon as you get into the train , he should be available in the first compartment of the train , if not - wait for him . The only extra fee will be charged when you buy the ticket at the train while counter at the station was open . Nonetheless ticket price will be the same at the counter and in the machine .
Generally you must apply for a Schengen visa from the embassy or consulate serving the place of your residence . This is not necessarily the country of your nationality ; if you are in a third country on a long stay visa such as a student or work visa , then you are a resident of that third country . <URL> states : An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Therefore , if you can convince the consulate that you have a very good reason for applying elsewhere than your residence , then they may accept and process the application .
It turned out that Flying Blue is not as restrictive as mentioned on their homepage . Even though they require you to hand in the original boarding pass , it is possible to get the miles with just the e-ticket number and any kind of proof that you paid for the flights . In my case , this was an invoice . So the answer to the question is : Send FlyingBlue an email and tell them your problem .
end question
start question
Where in Sweden can I celebrate midsommar with the locals ?
Too late , but for future reference and other people who are wondering : I celebrated near Skövde . Every place we visited or passed on a roadtrip after midsommar had a midsommarstång , so you can go to basically any city . Examples near Copenhagen/Lund are Falsterbö and Vikhög . Pick a city , and search google images for " cityname midsommar " , to see where they celebrate , as it differs in every place ( some use a park in the village , others a castle , some might be on a beach , ... ) . So pick a place and see if you can reach it by public transport . Or pick a place you can reach , and see if it 's good for you . Since most people do n't celebrate in a city , but rather in a small town , a small village does n't mean the festivities will be small . Looking at footage from previous years should give a good impression about how and where it 's celebrated in a given town .
Porter is currently an unfashionable beer style , as far as the mainstream goes , so in the larger ' chain ' pubs you 'd be unlikely to find one . However , that 's not to say there 's none to be found ! Your first step is to find the right kind of pub , for which there are many resources available ; the best physical one I would say would be CAMRA 's Good Beer Guide ( bookshops everywhere ) . Online your search terms would be ' real ale ' , ' craft beer ' , and of course ' london pub ' . Here are some specific resources which should help : <URL> - general pub reviews <URL> - pub reviews with an ale-drinking preference <URL> - but without the commentary that the book itself provides . Finally , you could always cheat and look in <URL> - not as good as the real thing , but consistently a decent pint . Finally finally , if you 're in East London I would personally urge you to try something by the <URL> - they do n't currently do a straight porter , but their mild is worth a special trip , to my mind .
<URL> and <URL> are two services often used to find accommodation hosted by locals . Airbnb accommodation is paid and varies from mansions to hay bales . By specifying " Shared room " or " Private room " in your search , you can often find rooms , mattresses , etc. in apartments or houses occupied by locals . The degree of interaction with your host depends on the specific stay ; reading descriptions and reviews will help you find the experience you want . Couchsurfing is free of charge , but guests are expected to contribute a reasonable amount in terms of conversation , chores , maybe a gift , etc ( leave your accommodation nicer than you found it ) . You can probably find the homestay experience you 're looking for on either site , the difference being that , because of Airbnb 's cost , its hosts will generally expect slightly less in terms of nonmonetary contribution from guests ( although gifts , conversation , and helping with chores are certainly welcome ) . On the whole , accommodation from either site will be safe and pleasant ; as with any part of the sharing economy , reviews and ratings provide information you can use to increase your chances of a positive experience .
It appears <URL> . All of this answer will be based on the info there but since you seemed not satisfied with it you should come back here after your trip and give an answer based on your personal experience . As reported in the forum post , there are ATMs in Beyneu so you can always withdraw some tenge . I also see <URL> so you might also be able to exchange if you prefer . <URL> . It says ATM 's ( bankomat in Russian ) are found on every major street in big cities . You can withdraw money with Visa , Mastercard or Maestro . The occasional refusal of your card is to be expected , but most ATM 's accept a wide range of foreign bank cards . In smaller towns , there probably will not be an ATM available for cash withdrawal . I 'm not sure if Beyneu qualifies as a big city so that one is up for judgement , but it also says : Currency exchange in Kazakhstan can be found on every street corner . Rates are competitive , once you leave the airport or train station . Main currencies that are traded with tenge are US dollar , Euro , British pound , Russian rouble , Kyrgyz som and Chinese yuan . so you will find some way of getting enough tenge I 'm pretty sure . If not , as pointed out in the forum , you should be able to pay your ride with dollars at a less advantageous price .
The pertinent information is <URL> , in Dutch . Bicycles are only allowed in the metro ( subway ) and in tram line 26 , not in other tram lines or bus lines . GVB also does n't have any trains , if you want to take the bicycle on a train , you 'll need different tickets entirely ( both for yourself and for the bike ) . The GVB supplement is valid for an entire day ( so does n't depend on the number of times you embark ) , but not during rush hour : bicycles are n't allowed between 7:00 -9:00 and 16:00 -18:30 . This is the rule in trains as well , by the way . In tram 26 you can buy a paper supplement at the driver , otherwise the ticket has to be loaded onto an " OV chipkaart " at a machine . I feel the need to add -- if you have a bicycle , why not just ride it :-)
I 'd go to <URL> , conveniently located between Ueno and Asakusa next to Tawaramachi stn on the Ginza line . It 's Tokyo 's main restaurant wholesale district and sells everything you need for food preparation or presentation at low prices , <URL> has a bit more info . Note that the Japanese term for lacquerware is shikki ( 漆器 ) , urushi-nuri is the coating itself . Note that lacquerware is , paradoxically , one of those things where the more you pay , the less you get , since the real thing is fragile , stains easily and is difficult to clean without causing damage . My wife only trots out her set for New Year 's , and she puts a layer of plastic wrap between food and plate when she does ! Plastic imitations are much cheaper ( hundreds of yen vs thousands ) , much more practical and not easily distinguished by the naked eye , although for seriously decorative pieces ( eg . the pieces towards the bottom of <URL> ) , the real thing will be your only option .
No , you will have no issues . There are no passport checks . If you fly , you will pass through an ID check , where you can use your passport . This check is conducted by the TSA , which does not enforce immigration law . There are stories on the internet , mostly from 8 or 9 years ago , of TSA officers referring aliens to immigration authorities for a status check . If this happens to you , there 's nothing to worry about since you are legally in the country , so you will be fine . If my experience is any guide , this is very unlikely . I 've been traveling domestically with a foreign passport for a couple of years now without anyone ever questioning my immigration status . As indicated in a comment , my experience may not be a sufficient guide , since passengers from Puerto Rico are apparently sometimes checked for immigration status . I 've never been to Puerto Rico . To reiterate , however , with your valid immigration documents , you have nothing to worry about .
There is currently little consumer demand in the U.S. for NFC payments , for a number of reasons : Magnetic card swipe readers are ubiquitous ; in D.C. , I can use them not only at gas station pumps and for Metro tickets , but in vending machines and parking meters , and even in almost every mom-and-pop shop . There is a standards battle underway between Google Wallet , ISIS , LevelUp , Square , and other players which has divided the small market . Vendors and consumers alike are waiting . Apple has not gotten behind the technology , meaning it is not available on the most popular and arguably the most aspirational brand of devices without obtaining a hardware accessory . All mobile phone-based NFC payment technologies are newish , and not without their kinks . To relate an anecdote , in the time it took my co-worker to show off paying at the drugstore with his new phone -- to retrieve and unlock it , hold it up to the reader , be recognized , and receive the payment approval -- I could have retrieved my credit card , swiped , and put it away three or four times . As such , mobile phone-based NFC payments are very rarely accepted by independent establishments , and even some major chains are giving up on it for now ; <URL> . If you do want to use NFC , there are a growing number of options , but they are mostly with large chains . ISIS is accepted at McDonald 's and CVS ; Google Wallet is accepted at Walgreens and Five Guys ; Square is accepted at Starbucks ; and so on . The backers of the different NFC networks are striving mightily to promote them , so they will have web pages devoted to listing supporting vendors ; for example , you search can search by city or postal code for local <URL> and <URL> merchants , including vending machines .
<URL> allows you to specify almost any conveivable trip combination . You can specify the cities or airports to fly through , the layover times , the airline alliance or airlines and even the aircraft that you 're willing to fly . Example : If you wish to fly from London to San Francisco via New York with a stopover in New York of more than 48 hours on the outbound , only on aircraft operated by American Airlines , you would use LON : :O : AA * / minconnect 2880 to SFO : :O : AA * If you 'd like to further specify your requirements , I 'm sure we could supply you with the options you would need to use .
Staying for more than 90 days would be breaking the law , unfortunately for you . Moreover , the 90-day rule applies to all of the Schengen area , and the Schengen Agreement is now part of EU law . Therefore , by overstaying you would be breaking law of the entire EU , and also the non-EU Schengen members . The actual penalty for overstaying depends heavily on the circumstances , but there are generally three kinds of penalties that would apply , from most likely to least likely : A fine . No long-term consequences , but would probably offset your 200 $ savings . Deportation from Sweden . Could be together with the fine . Chapter 8 , Article 1 of the Swedish <URL> allows deportation in case something is wrong with paperwork or permits , including violations of the Schengen agreement . Section 4 of that Article also allows the same if you do not provide requested information about your stay or lie about it . That is , if you claim you 'd be returning within 90 days but show a ticket 91 day later , that 's also a violation . Such a deportation may or may not include a reentry ban of up to five years . A reentry ban would be reported to the Schengen Information System , see next point . An entry ban in Schengen . In this case , you 'd have that negative mark on your record in the Schengen information system - important to note that all Schengen countries share this . Article 24 of the <URL> is what allows a SIS alert banning you from entering based on the decision of an individual country ( Sweden in this case ) . The consequences may include a requirement for you to obtain a visa prior to future visits , with you no longer being allowed visa-free 90 day travel . The previous sentence is not correct , there 's no such provision in the SIS , the entry could merely require that you be denied entry . If you get a SIS alert entry , or suspect you did , it 's <URL> , and you could appeal the decision if you have an entry ban . A severe option , and extremely unlikely for a one-day overstay . Now , of course , another possibility is that you do not get caught or get let off with a verbal warning . Sometimes the border guards may not care to even check the dates when you 're leaving . Or they may decide to let it slide , but you never know . Another possibility , though unlikely , would be that border guards not only ask you about your plans on entry ( likely enough in itself ) but also ask to see a return ticket . Then you could run into trouble already on entry due to your ticket being on day 91 . Now for a couple of practical tips . Sweden does have long-term tourist visas , but they are not an option for you if you 're traveling in less than a month - the process takes much longer . Sweden 's an expensive country . 200 $ is n't much compared to what you will spend over the course of 3 months . I hope it 's clear from the answer that the potential consequences of being caught outweigh the savings . However , depending on where you are staying in Sweden ( which has very good train connections ) , it may be worth to investigate flights from other airports . If you are in Stockholm , and especially if you 're south of there , it 's easy to get to Copenhagen . If you 're in Gothenburg , it 's possible to get to Oslo in 4 hours for as little as 46 $ , so it may be worth it to consider flights from nearby countries in your planning .
Right after security checks ( at least in the terminal I used ) there were two changing rooms that are probably used for extra security checks . I asked the security staff if I could use it to get changed and their response was " sure , of course " so I went ahead and did . Indeed nobody even seemed to care . The changing room featured a chair , enough space and was very clean . <URL> Alternatively let me propose a solution here that has not been mentioned yet : Go to a clothing store in the airport shopping area , find a sales clerk that is free and ask politely if you could use their changing rooms for a second to change your clothes . No guarantee that it 'll work but you can try at least .
Too late , but for future reference and other people who are wondering : I celebrated near Skövde . Every place we visited or passed on a roadtrip after midsommar had a midsommarstång , so you can go to basically any city . Examples near Copenhagen/Lund are Falsterbö and Vikhög . Pick a city , and search google images for " cityname midsommar " , to see where they celebrate , as it differs in every place ( some use a park in the village , others a castle , some might be on a beach , ... ) . So pick a place and see if you can reach it by public transport . Or pick a place you can reach , and see if it 's good for you . Since most people do n't celebrate in a city , but rather in a small town , a small village does n't mean the festivities will be small . Looking at footage from previous years should give a good impression about how and where it 's celebrated in a given town .
Disclaimer : This isnt specifically in Kyoto . It 's about 1h by train/car from Kyoto Station . The <URL> could be what you 're looking for . It 's located in Kobe , near Osaka . The museum features LOTS of information and displays on how woodworking and carpentry evolved from prehistoric Japan all the way to modern days . The building is gorgeous and there are plenty of examples of the different techniques demonstrated . You can also borrow a very thorough audio guide that completes the visit very nicely ( Which I highly recommend you do ) . A bonus point is that , while in Kobe , you can eat some amazing Kobe Beef !
I 've used a lot of these cards almost since they were introduced to the market over a decade ago , so I 'm drawing on my experience here ( technical corrections are welcome ) : Prepaid debit cards in the US come in two major classes : reloadable and non-reloadable . Non-reloadable cards are purchased with a fixed amount of U.S. dollars on the card , and can not be topped up . Once they are empty , they can be discarded . These are often sold as " gift cards " , do not require an ID check , and can be found in most grocery stores , drugstores , shopping malls , etc. . They generally have a flat fee for purchase of the card , and usually no other fees . The highest denomination I have ever seen for these is $ 1000 , though I believe the law allows for them to have up to $ 3000 . Most are in the $ 25 - $ 100 range , though higher denominations can be found with some shopping . You will receive a card immediately at the point of purchase , usually with the name of GIFT CARD or something similar . This once caused one cashier to glance at the receipt as I was finishing my purchase and tell me " Thanks for coming in today , Mr. Gift . " Reloadable cards are purchased with an arbitrary amount of money loaded on the card , and can be topped up at any time . These typically carry monthly fees , top-up fees , and sometimes transaction fees . They also require an ID check , and the issuer may restrict issuance to US residents . ( Thanks , PATRIOT act ! ) They can be loaded with up to $ 3000 at any given time , though the issuing bank may have a lower limit . Reloadable cards may have to be mailed to you at a US address ; you do not typically get the card at point of purchase , though you may get a temporary card . The card you receive in the mail will have your name on it , and it generally takes about a week or two to arrive . As far as I know , neither type can be obtained from outside the US ; you must obtain them in person at a point of purchase . Both types of cards will have a web site where you can register the card and associate a physical address in the US with it for the purpose of online shopping . The web site will also show the activity on the card and its current balance . For reloadable cards , the registration is mandatory and you will do it as part of the process of purchasing the cards . For non-reloadable gift cards , it is optional , and only needed if you wish to use the card to make online purchases . ( And those virtual cards you mention are only usable online ; they can not be used in physical stores . ) Which type is better for you , I think only you can say . But I would think that a high-value non-reloadable card or two would be the way you would want to go here . My favorite place to get them is at shopping malls ; the mall customer service desk will sell them , generally in denominations up to $ 250 or $ 500 depending on the mall , usually for a fee of about $ 5 . Finally , a usage note : When your card gets near empty , you can instruct a merchant to charge the exact amount remaining on the card , and then pay the remaining balance via another payment method , as long as you are n't doing this at a restaurant , hotel or possibly gas station ( since these places may authorize an amount higher than the amount given and settle the exact amount a few days later ) . This allows you to empty out the card and not lose any money . You might also consider just using your own credit cards while in the US ; if they have a magnetic stripe and are Visa , MasterCard , American Express , etc. , they should work in most places in the US except for " pay at the pump " gas station pumps ( <URL> ) . You 'll usually get a good exchange rate , too , though this does seem to vary a lot by country and bank . Note that Maestro cards do not generally work for purchases here , though they work at most ATMs .
Buses run infrequently and are privatized so it 's extremely difficult to document . Taking the subway to Giza and connecting by mini-bus is much more difficult then catching the No 355/357 behind the Egyptian Museum . It 's an " unofficial " stop , costs two Egyptian pounds , is air conditioned and will take you right to the base of the pyramids . Things to remember , you have to " hail " buses in Egypt for the most part . Behind the museum a local will normally do it for you and you can just piggy back on their quick acting . Bus numbers are in Arabic , mini-bus or regular . My girlfriend always tells people when looking for that bus , Arabic is backwards " 7 " " 0 " " V " . Good luck and have fun . Egyptians are friendly and will help you if you ask , just do n't let them lead you anywhere ... you 'll see what I mean ;-) All harmless fun though !
In this case , first , you want a live tube map with Google maps underneath . <URL> ( yes , those are the trains moving on the map ! ) As you can now clearly , see , this gives you a couple of options - the District Line ( Green ) and the Central Line ( Red ) . Upminster ( end of the District line ) is your closest stop there.There is a parking lot right next to the tube station , with a couple of hundred parks . The Google Maps satellite view shows that during the day even , this is n't totally full . Epping ( end of the Central Line ) is your second option . This is just near the junction of the M25 and the M11 . It too , has a big parking area next to the station . The downside here is that on Google Maps , it 's showing as completely full . Of course , you ca n't know for sure what time of day these images were taken . Personally I 'd go for the Epping one if you 're getting in early - the District line is one Londoners will not usually trust for reliability , and if you 're early enough you wo n't have to worry about the car park filling up too much . It 's also conveniently close to your M11 turn-off junction .
According to <URL> you can find cheetahs around Africa and Middle East . Image is in public domain One of the easiest places to see Cheetahs ( I saw a lot there ) is Masai Mara National Park ( Kenya ) .
If you do a search with the terms sushi com chocolate ( sushi with chocolate ) you will find plenty of recepies . Nevertheless , it 's certainly not a trend , I have ate sweet sushi before but I had never heard of norimaki with chocolate before . It 's really common to find sweet temakis ( " sweet kones " ) for dessert , I would n't be surprised to find one with chocolate , but they certainly do n't have fish on them :) They are not temaki in my opinion , as they are normally not rolled in nori . It depends on where you are , but I 'd search for temaki doce ( sweet temaki ) , along with the name of the city where you are to find places to eat .
Google Maps now supports mass transit navigation in Berlin , so there 's no need to use external apps . <URL>
According to the stations information about <URL> ( Dutch language only ) , you can rent bicycles right at the station for 7,50 per day . They demand a deposit of 50 euro 's and it is advised to make reservations by phone at : +31 ( 0 ) 26-4421782
end question
start question
How to travel cheaply between Charleroi Airport and Brussels ?
From the <URL> , you 'll discover that there 's a special shuttle bus between the airport . It 's Bus A , and the price is included in the cost of the train ticket if you buy a ticket to/from the airport . It takes about 20 minutes from the airport to the station at Charleroi . There are special train tickets for travel to/from Charleroi Airport . If you go to the <URL> and search from to , then pick from the ticket type dropdown , you 'll see the prices . Currently , it 's $ 14,40 one way . You can read more about the combined bus + train tickets for Charleroi <URL> . Tickets can be bought online , or at the airport , should be the same price .
Take the Airport Railroad to Seoul Station and from there a " Mugunghwa " train to Daejeon . The " all stop " train ( 1 hour journey ) from the airport to Seoul costs 3950 KRW . There is an express train doing the journey in 30 minutes . It costs 8000 KRW . <URL> The train from Seoul top Daejeon ( journey time : 2 hours ) costs 10800 KRW in economy class with an assigned seat . If you do without the reservation , you will save 1600 KRW . <URL> In total this option ( 13150 KRW for its cheapest variant ) is cheaper than an " Airport Limousine " ( = bus ) , which costs 20600 KRW . <URL> There are two slightly more expensive alternatives There are direct KTX trains from Incheon Airport to Deajeon . The 2 hour journey costs 36000 KRW in economy class with an assigned seat . As an alternative , from Seoul Station you can take a KTX to Daejeon . The 1 hour journey costs 23700 KRW in economy class with an assigned seat .
First , I 'm going to offer a generic solution that I still think will solve your problem . There are a couple of paid services , <URL> and <URL> ( there 's a referral link in my profile ) . You pay a small amount , set a price you want to beat , and their experts will find you something cheaper . If they ca n't , you lose nothing ( I 've had them fail once and I got my money back ) . But they 've also saved me tons . ( disclaimer , I sometimes compete on their site as one of the experts ) . Secondly , and this will actually address the issue with one-way flights in South America - it 's worth noting that it 's fairly common in South America to find return flights for far less than one-way flights . My friend , flying from La Paz ( Bolivia ) to Santiago de Chile was going to buy a one-way , then saw the price of a return was about half . So he bought the return and just did n't use the second segment . So yes , you can do that . Check if it 's possible to cancel the return leg for a refund , although I suspect that 's unlikely - but at the least , it 's still cheaper than the one-way ;)
<URL> is your friend . You can use that service from city to city , or - as I did in this case - from country ( Australia ) to city ( Hyderabad ) . If you are fortunate enough to fly with your own plane and want to have the closest airport in terms of distance , check the <URL>
Yes , there are direct trains but I would not trust voyages-sncf . com to book train journeys entirely outside France ( or for anything else actually ) . <URL> will show you all the trains and should allow you to buy a ticket online . Another option to book the tickets would be <URL> ( I find the site nicer and easier to use than either SNCF or NMBS/SNCB but they only offer postal tickets for this journey so that 's not very convenient ) . Finally , you can buy a ticket on the day of travel , at the airport . Apart from international services ( especially Thalys ) and unlike in France , Germany or the UK , there is no advance booking discounts or seat reservations on trains in Belgium so little downside to buying the tickets at the last minute , except the need to plan some time for it . Besides , your train is little more than a suburban train , Belgium is quite small and Antwerpen is a bit over 30 min away from the airport . Note that , depending on the site/language , the airport station is also called " Bruxelles Nat . Aéroport " or " Brussel Nationaal Luchthaven " .
By train it 's 21 minutes and currently costs $ 7.70 ( one way ) . You can check the time tables , and even buy tickets online on <URL> . You can also directly choose option when buying Eurostar ticket , which seems to be $ 7.50 surcharge ( for one way ) . How it works : Travelling to other Belgian stations The fares on this page all include travel from Brussels-Midi/Zuid to any Belgian station . That means you can use your Eurostar ticket to travel on any domestic Belgian service * within 24 hours of arriving at Brussels-Midi/Zuid . Please note Any Belgian station tickets can only be booked more than 48 hours prior to travel to allow for printing at home . Otherwise they will only be available for collection from Brussels station . * excludes Thalys and ICE services . Thalys and ICE are international services , not really relevant when going to the Brussels airport .
The sane way to travel from Kansai Airport to Kyoto is the direct JR Haruka service , which would usually cost ¥ 2,980 , but as you 've figured out is covered by the & yen ; 2060/day <URL> . Now you could buy two one-day passes ... but there 's an even better option ! Available at Kansai Airport only , and only for non-resident foreigners with a return air ticket , the " <URL> " pass gets you a round-trip from the airport to a Kansai city of your choice ( including Kyoto ) on the Haruka express ( plus local connections ) for & yen ; 4060 , plus an ICOCA smart card preloaded with & yen ; 1500 of credit that can be used anywhere in the Kansai region , including Kyoto buses and subways , or even drink vending machines etc. . This means you basically get the round-trip for & yen ; 2560 . However , if you 're really pinching pennies and were planning on walking or biking around Kyoto all day every day ( not recommended , it 's a big city ) , you could cover the distance for & yen ; 1720 one-way by taking the Nankai " rapid service " ( not to be confused with the premium rapi : t service , which is twice the price ) to Namba , crossing Osaka on the Midosuji subway line , then taking the JR Special Rapid to Kyoto . ( Route # 4 in <URL> ) The hassle of two extra transfers is highly unlikely to be worth the minor savings though . And finally , I presume this was just a typo , but the <URL> is n't going to help you , it 's only valid on JR East routes north of Tokyo .
In general , there 's no price difference for checking in at the airport or via any other means , although there can be price differences for other services ( eg baggage charges ) depending on where you pay for them - more on that below . There are , however , a small number of exceptions in the form of Low-Cost Carriers ( LCCs ) who are interested in squeezing every last possible cent out of you to make up for the low initial ticket price . Ryanair is the best known offender here , charging # 60 / $ 60 per person ( depending on the departure location ) to print/reprint your boarding pass at the airport . Spirit Airlines in the US also charges , but the fees are a little more sensible at $ 2 - $ 5 per person . The airline should list these fees on their website , so if you 're flying a LCC it 's certainly worth checking beforehand . Where many airlines do charge differently depending on where you pay for it is for check baggage - paying in advance will often be cheaper than paying at the airport . Normally you can still pay the baggage fees online and then check-in at the airport for no additional fee - as long as you 've paid the checked bag fee in advance . Spirit is ( again ! ) one of the best example of this - from November , taking a carry-on bag onto one of their flights will cost you $ 35 if paid in advance , $ 50 if done at check-in , and $ 100 if done at the gate ! Most other carries are not quite so high , but most LCC and even many normal carriers will have different prices for checked bags at the airport vs in advance .
@blackbird57 's answer is correct but refers to a <URL> instead of relevant <URL> on the website of the European Commission : An airport transit visa ( ATV ) authorises you to pass through the international transit zone at an airport located on the territory of the Schengen State and to await a connecting flight to a non-Schengen country . The ATV does not allow you to enter the Schengen territory ( to stay at a hotel or to take an onwards flight to another Schengen State , for example ) . that 's crystal clear . I was struggling with finding a good document to show that Type A means Airport Transit Visa but I found it in the <URL> itself : ' TYPE OF VISA ' heading : In order to facilitate matters for the control authorities , this heading specifies the type of visa using the letters A , C and D as follows : A : airport transit visa ( as defined in Article 2 ( 5 ) of this Regulation )
For international flights I usually try to be at the airport 2-3h before departure . So adding approx . 45min for EWR - Manhattan and approx . 45min for Manhattan - JFK , there would n't be much time left for to eat anything besides a quick meal in McDonald 's .
It depends . The question is if they block access to signaling control builing or not . You can not predict this beforehand , but generally they do . If signalling control building is inaccessible , no trains can pass in the area controlled by that specific building . If the signaling control buildings remain functioning , you can count on some trains , but can not predict which trains will be cancelled . This implies that it is not possible to count on any regularity in the style of " every x hours " . Some general rules : National action , supported by all major unions : not a single train will ride . Regional action , supported by all major unions : not a single train will ride in that region . This can also include trains coming from or going to the region in question . National action , with limited support : impossible to predict for reasons mentioned above . It mainly depends where signalling control buildings are occupied and where ( if any ) tracks are blocked . Regional action , with limited support : still harder to predict , but you get the point , I guess . For the strikes with a limited support ( like only a minor union ) , it is often possible to predict which regions will be mainly affected , because the minor unions often have regional strongholds where they are important , while they might be negligible elsewhere . If you are referring to the strike on December 15th , you are in the first case . Not a single train will run from or to the airport .
city bus , line - ticket 2.40 PLN ( ~ 0.56 $ ) night bus , line - ticket 2.80 PLN ( ~ 0.66 $ ) taxi - less than 50 PLN ( ~ 12 $ ) If you are taking day bus and want to get to main market square , quit bus at " Renoma " stop and follow Świdnicka street . If you want to get to train or bus station , quit bus at " Dworcowa " stop ( the last one ) .
Nothing is going to beat Thalys time-wise and Paris-Nord is n't too far away from the center as far as long-distance " departure points " ( whether airports , train stations or bus terminals ) go . You simply need to combine Thalys with a subway , RER or taxi ride from wherever you find yourself . Even if you could find a bus starting closer to your actual point of departure , it 's going to be much slower . Trains other than the Thalys will also leave from somewhere else and/or require several connections or a long travel time . Both solutions could be considerably cheaper , however . Ridesharing could also be a way to save some money and leave directly from another part of the city than the train station but it requires a lot of flexibility and would not be very fast either so it probably does not meet your requirements . Also , among the main central sights , the Arc de Triomphe and Champs de Mars are already a bit away from the very center of Paris . You could plan your sightseeing to start there in the morning and end up near Châtelet / Les Halles , Saint-Michel -- Notre-Dame , Cité ( close to the île de la Cité , the Louvres or the Tuileries ) or another station on subway line 4 or RER line B or D. Same thing if you intend to see the Grands Boulevards , Montmartre or the Opéra area ; go there last , not before seeing the Champs-Élysées or the 1st arrondissement .
There is a free shuttle bus between the two terminals . In addition , there are golf carts standing by at some cost . Details can be found <URL> , which says : Passengers can use shuttle bus ( free of charge for transit passengers ) to transport between T1 and T2 terminal . Time of operation : From 06h00 to 24h00 ( local time ) ; Frequency : From 10 to 15 minutes / 01 respective vehicle . Maintaining other means of transportation ( tram , public bus ) The signs at the actual site indicate that frequency is 10 minutes during the day time and 20 minutes in the early morning/late evening . The shuttle bus is a small coach with space underneath for suitcases . Coming from T1 arrivals , turn right and walk up to the end of the terminal for the collection point . There are LED signs indicating the way .
As <URL> managed to find , there 's information on public transport on the <URL> ( click the British flag in the top bar if it comes up in Dutch ) . It 's actually even easier than the website makes out ! In the baggage hall , there 's a sign up explaining about the two bus options , and with directions to the bus stops . When you exit the terminal , turn left and walk for an epic 20-30 meters , and you 'll reach the bus stops . There 's one stop for the # 50 , one for the # 33 , both well signed . If you have an <URL> , you can use that for the journey . Otherwise , $ 3 in cash paid onboard gets your a single ticket valid for 1 hour . The <URL> runs direct to Rotterdam Central Station , taking about 25-30 minutes . For the west of the city centre or around the station , that 's probably the best bet . Otherwise , the <URL> bus shuttles you out to the Meijersplein metro station , from which it 's easy to take the metro north to The Hague ( Den Haag ) , or south into the city centre . You can use a journey planner like the <URL> or <URL> to work out which 'll be the best for you . Both buses are pretty frequent , every 10-20 minutes depending on the time of day , and you can be at the bus stop in well under 10 minutes from wheels down if you 're travelling only with hand luggage only Depending on how many journeys you plan to take , it might or might not be worth getting an OV-chipkaart . It 's currently <URL> , which reduces the single ticket to the city centre to $ 1.66 , so you 'll need to make a few journeys to make it worthwhile . If it 's open , you can buy one from the <URL> , which is between the arrivals and departure areas ( turn right outside customs , and it 's on your left next to the currency exchange office ) . However , Ako seems to have much shorter opening hours than many other places in the airport , so take care if arriving very early or late in the day ! Otherwise , the people at the information desk just after you exit customs are very helpful , ask them for advice if you need it !
I ended up being tweeted an answer - from a TEFL teacher in Thailand : <URL>
The short answer is that Yes , the rules will remain the same as when you booked , regardless of what changes the airlines make after that date . The longer answer is a little more complex . First lets get a few term definitions out of the way . The " fare rules " for a ticket are a combination of two things - the rules that form of a part of the actual fare that you bought ( which normally spell out things like change fees ) , and the " Conditions Of Carriage " ( CoC ) that is the general terms that apply to all fares booked on a particular carrier ( Think of it as the " fine print " of your ticket and you 'll be pretty close to the mark ) . If you Google for the name of your airline and the term " CoC " you should find the relevant details . " Booking " a ticket is when you go in and , well , book the ticket ! However at the time of booking your ticket has n't actually been confirmed . At that stage , even if you 've handed over your hard-earned cash to pay for it , it 's not actually confirmed until it 's " ticketed " . " Ticketing " is what happens when the airline actually writes you a ticket . In years gone by this was the point that they actually handed you a physical ticket . Now days it 's the point where they give you a " ticket number " . At this point your reservation is said to be " ticketed " . Ticketing normally happened within minutes of you booking/paying for the flight , but it can take up to a few days or even weeks , depending on the situation ( especially if there are multiple airlines involved ) . Once your reservation is " ticketed " the actual fare is locked in , so even if the fare goes up the airline ca n't come to you and ask for more money for the flight itself . Whether they can change any fees associated with the fare - including things like baggage fees and change fees - depends what is written in the fare rules and in the CoC . There is an important distinction here between " booked " and " ticketed " - at least in theory the rules can change between these two stages , and it 's the rules that are in place when the ticket is " ticketed " that matters . In practice airlines will generally honor the rules/fares/etc at the time of booking , but there 's no guarantee that they will . Generally any change fees will be specifically written into the fare rules , including a specific amount for the fee . eg , in your example the fare rules themselves will state that the cancellation fee is $ 250 . As these rules are locked in at the time your reservation was ticketed , the airline can not change them after the fact for your booking . Some airlines , especially some low-cost carriers will NOT have the specific change fees within the fare rules , but will instead make reference to standard change fees . In this case it 's a little less clear what they can change as it will depend on the exact wording ( eg , if it says something like " at the time of the change " then it 's obviously different to " at the time the booking was made " ) . At the end of the day a lot of this comes down to the airline you 're flying . If you 're flying with one of the major carriers then their systems should automatically handle the change fees for you , at the correct amount for when your reservation was ticketed . If you 're flying a low-cost carrier , or a smaller regional airline , then you might have some more problems convincing them to charge you the lower amount - regardless of what is actually correct !
The ferry is essentially the only means of transport that was n't completely overloaded the last time . BART runs a few extra private buses , enough to accommodate 1 % of the 400,000 daily riders . And it 's only in the commute direction . Unfortunately , the Transbay tube is so efficient and so fast that there are n't a lot of good options from other transit providers . Perhaps the best option if the ferry is n't convenient is the " slug lines , " also known as <URL> . People who are traveling solo take on a few extra passengers to get the discount on the Bay Bridge . Obviously , you have to sit in traffic on the bridge , but the price is right . It sounds sketchy but is apparently very safe . As far as getting to the airport , you 're basically out of luck . You can take <URL> from <URL> and get off at the Millbrae station . That still leaves you 2.5 miles from the airport , but you should be able to get a cab from there , or walk if you 're up for it ( the bayfront area by the airport is pretty nice to walk along , but getting there is a slog from the Caltrain station ) . Also , Caltrain does n't run as often or as early as BART . Rental cars are n't cheap , but it may be worth making a refundable reservation in case you need it , and canceling before the deadline if the strike is called off .
In Wikipedia there is a <URL> about the relations between Croatia and Serbia For the first time in history , Serbia as an independent country will be represented by its national team against the Croatian team on March 22 , 2013 in qualification group A of the 2014 FIFA World Cup . For the safety of the lives of those attending the next two matches in 2013 , the football federations of Serbia and Croatia will cooperate to ban foreign guests from coming to the stadiums at which the two games will take place . So I think it 's not possible to attend this game . And even if 's allowed , it 's not a good idea . There will be a lot of police , but it will be still dangerous on and around the stadium
The metro is only $ 1,70 per ride , and if you buy a carnet of 10 the price is $ 13.30 for all 10 . Probably your best bet . I hate cycling because of the issues with locking it up , worrying about theft , and if you 're in the upper arrondissements going uphill on cobblestone sounds like a miserable experience I would rather spare myself from . The city is surprisingly small , with a most of it very walkable ( especially the major tourist attractions ) . Over three days I imagine 10 tickets is more then enough for the two of you . Tip : After you 've validated your ticket , do n't forget to hang on to it for the duration of your ride . My girlfriend once lost hers and had the unfortunate experience of random ticket inspection upon exiting the subway station : Where a guy with a machine asks to see your ticket , and if you do n't have one that 's validated , he has a fancy debit machine to collect $ 40 :-)
end question
start question
Will I get in trouble if I drink beer in public in Dubai ?
Short answer : Yes , you will get in trouble . And I personally do n't recommend public drinking in any Arabic/Islamic country . It is even illegal in many other countries . Long answer is that <URL> . By the way , Ramadan is a single month per lunar year . It was in <URL> 1 , it will be in <URL> . and yes , there are special rules for Ramadan . Also note that Dubai is a state ( county ) in a country ( United Arab Emirates ) . Rules outside Dubai are MUCH different . For example , <URL> .
Vegan is more than possible in Japan . There are a number of <URL> on the topic that I suggest you look at . In terms of the specifics of a sushi restaurant , the vegan basics are : Kappa maki - cucumber roll カッパ巻き Natto maki - roll with natto 納豆巻き Abokado nigiri/maki - avocado nigiri or maki アボカドにぎり Ume shiso maki - Plums paste with shiso herbs -- see Footnote 1 梅しそ巻き <URL> zushi - rice in an inari ( fried tofu ) wrapper - See Footnote 2 稲荷寿し <URL> maki - pickled daikon maki お新香巻き <URL> maki - dried calabash gourd maki かんぴょう巻き You can also ask for your own maki variations - especially if you can see the chef in front of you : Ninjin avokado maki - carrot - avocado maki 人参アボカド巻き Kyuuri to ninjin maki - cucumber and carrot maki 胡瓜と人参巻き <URL> maki - burdock root ( used in <URL> ) wrap - see Footnote 3 - ごぼう巻き Spinach ( horenso ほうれん草 ) , bamboo shoots ( takenoko たけのこ ) - see Footnote 3 Most sushi chefs will understand basic english terms with the exception of cucumbers ( kyuuri ) . They should take making a vegan sushi for you as a fun challenge . Now not technically sushi , but riceballs can be usually ordered at a sushi restaurant : Yaki onigiri - roasted rice ball with seaweed wrapper ( with toasted sesame seeds ) 焼きおにぎり Onigiri - rice ball with seaweed wrapper おにぎり Ume onigiri - rice ball with plum paste 梅おにぎり Konbu onigiri - rice ball with konbu seaweed 昆布おにぎり Footnote 1 : Real home-made or chef-made umeboshi plum paste does n't use katsuobushi ( bonito flakes ) . As long as you 're not at a chain restaurant , you can ask the chef if the umeboshi has katsuobushi ( 梅干しには鰹節が入っていますか ？ umeboshi ni wa katsuobushi wa haitte imasuka ) . They may give you the stink eye because it 's like asking a haute cuisine French chef if their roux has corn starch in it . Footnote 2 : Inari sushi is great if you can make sure that they do n't dip the fried tofu wrappers in a non-vegan dashi ( not all places dip them in dashi , most just soak them in mirin which is vegan ) . Footnote 3 : Spinach and bamboo shoots ( and occasionally burdock root ) are usually steamed with katsuobushi ( bonito ) dashi stock . They may be able to make a vegan variation if they still have the raw ingredients and like you . Bonus section If you 're in Kyoto , try to visit a Kyoyasai （ 京野菜 ) restaurant -- these serve heritage vegetables from the Kyoto area . Yum . If you 're by a Buddhist temple , try Shojinryori （ 精進料理 ) -- <URL> which has no meat . For both , you should make sure that the dashi ( stock ) is vegan , made from kelp ( konbu dashi ) or mushrooms ( shiitake dashi ) and not from bonito ( katsuobushi ) . A real temple would n't serve bonito dashi but a restaurant might ( especially in the case of kyoyasai which is more about the heritage vegetables and not about being vegan ) .
An easy option is <URL> ( although there 's also Telecom and Vodafone , if you 're staying in cities , I 'd recommend 2degrees ) . There are many stores in Wellington that sell the sim cards , and last I checked ID was not required ( I last bought a sim there 3 years ago ) . They have a <URL> which shows dozens of locations in Wellington to buy - I usually just go to a newsagent or ' dairy ' ( like a corner store ) . 7/11s are n't in New Zealand , despite being common in Australia ( ! ) .
I never found the stereotypical rude Parisian I was warned about . Several people went far out of their way to help me in ways I would n't expect in my own city . I did not find a great number of people outside the tourism industry in Paris that spoke English . I did always use the French words and phrases I knew " excusez moi " , " salut " , " merci " , and if I could struggle by with those I would n't even ask " parlez vous anglaise " I got the impression people appreciated that . Using single words goes far , French or English , if you ca n't form a sentence . If you manage to form a broken sentence people will often help out by correcting your mistakes ! More people know more English vocabulary that you know French vocabulary but may not be able to make or parse English sentences . Be patient . Smile a lot . Never act rude or arrogant . Do n't talk loud when people do n't understand . When you get to your hotel or tourist information people will be able to speak English .
Visa-free transfers in China are very limited . In particular , your inbound flight into China must arrive at the same airport as you are the later departing from . So arriving in Tianjin and departing from Beijing will not be possible . The train trip in between does not make a difference . For the 72-hour visa-free transit , you can find the rules at regulations at : <URL> For the 24-hour visa-free transit , you can find the rules here : <URL> - but they are even more restricted , requring you to stay in the international transfer part of the airport . Since you are taking a domestic train , these rules do not apply either .
Cell phones run on two different types of networks : GSM and CDMA . These network types themselves are subdivided into various bands ( e.g. GSM 850 MHz ) . Most recent phones will support a wide range of bands within one network type . GSM is predominant in most countries except the US , which uses both . To verify that your current phone will work in another country , you first need to find out which bands your phone works on . This will be listed on the technical specifications , which you may be able to find online ( if you ca n't , try calling your carrier ) . You 'll then need to check which bands are used by carriers in the country you 're going to . Wikipedia is good for this -- for example , <URL> . Data basically works the same way , although it is a bit more complicated . Basically , there are a number of different network technologies : HSDPA , HSUPA , HSPA , HSPA + , LTE ( I 'm not sure how complete this list is ) . The best way to do this is to check Wikipedia and work backwards ( if their network supports , say , 1800 MHz LTE , you 'll want to check if your phone does ) . In addition , if your phone has not been unlocked , you will be forced to keep using your current SIM . This seems to be what you 're planning to do , but I just want to emphasize that switching to a local SIM will not work , so if your carrier is willing to unlock your phone , do get that done . The other thing to make sure to do is check with your carrier is that you do have international roaming enabled . If not , your phone basically wo n't work outside of the US , and it 's a lot easier to get that enabled before you travel instead of trying to dial your carrier from abroad .
The google maps page you link is n't an accurate representation of the walk - your end point is n't really anywhere near the airport terminals . <URL> is a bit more realistic . I 'd reccommend getting a taxi - # 8 or less for the journey would be my estimate . Your concerns about walking are in fact perfectly justified - the route to the airport from the town centre is mostly not along streets with pavement , and while it 'll most likely be safe from the perspective of worrying about getting mugged , it wo n't be a pleasant stroll . As to getting from there to Watford , you 've identified the right bus . Other than that , the train journey you mentioned you 're trying to avoid is the only other obvious choice - it 'll be quicker , but more expensive . Source : Lived in Luton for a year , made several trips from the north of town to the airport . Used the train lines in that area extensively .
Yes . If you are approved for Global Entry ( the standards around criminal history are more stringent than for Precheck alone ) , you will receive a Known Traveler Number that you may supply with your airline reservations and you will be eligible for Precheck ( assuming you 're flying a participating airline , at a participating airport , and you are n't randomly selected for more intense screening ) . It will work the same as if you applied for TSA Precheck . Applying for Global Entry requires that you be interviewed by CBP at their <URL> , which are different locations from the TSA Precheck enrollment centers . Global Entry reserves the right to disqualify you for basically any criminal history or even just a fishy history with CBP , while <URL> follows a more constrained set of rules where even pretty serious offenses are ok if enough time has passed . People have had <URL> with Global Entry applications , though many are obviously accepted without incident . If you are denied for Global Entry , you wo n't get either Global Entry or TSA Precheck and will be out the application fee , requiring you to apply again just for TSA Precheck if you qualify for that . Note also ( with thanks to James McLeod in comments ) the existance of the <URL> , which includes both Global Entry and TSA Precheck benefits along with expedited entry into Canada . Best of all , it only costs $ 50 for five years . The catch is that you can only enroll at limited locations near the US-Canada border , and the eligibility requirements are a bit different ( must be a US or Canadian citizen or permanent resident ) . There 's a handy <URL> of all the trusted traveler programs you can consult to decide which is best for you . Weirdly , according to the chart , Canadian permanent residents will not receive TSA Precheck with NEXUS though . For an <URL> : If you are a member of Global Entry ( GE ) , you do not need to sign up separately for TSA 's PreCheck program . TSA PreCheck is an added no-cost benefit offered to members of Global Entry , when passport and fingerprints are on file in our systems . Note that your Global Entry application , passport , and airline reservations all must use the same name for this to work . Personally , I 'd go for Global Entry unless getting to an enrollment center was inconvenient or you have a concern that you might not be approved and do n't want to risk wasting the money or time .
This depends on which locals you want to speak to . If you 're in the cities , you should have no trouble at all speaking Spanish to practically anyone . If you venture out into the country side , Spanish is more the trade language , and several local languages are used more commonly . Even in such places you should have no trouble using Spanish to conduct business , but if you are invited to a local 's home , you may have a difficult time discussing personal family matters using only Spanish . Note this <URL> : The main reason that indigenous languages and cultures have been able to survive here is the rugged terrain , which isolate communities . So the answer to your question : Can you get by with only Spanish , is a resounding yes . If you look hard enough , though , in the right places , you will find people with whom you can not communicate at all .
As of now , there 's no cash back service in the UAE . There are talks about this every now and then in the GCC region , but so far it 's not implemented .
Historically Seoul has had a number of issues with drinking water . Most recently the issue was n't the water itself , but the pipes that delivered it , which many people claimed introduced contaminates . I can still remember being told by someone I was working with there about 10 years ago that the water was safe to drink in my hotel , but not in their office block located a few blocks away - I 'm still not sure exactly how he came to that conclusion ! Over recent years the local government-run water supplier has made significant efforts to replace all of the " old " pipes , and has taken additional measures around treatment of water . The water is considered safe and drinkable under UN criteria , and although many locals still do not trust it , there 's little doubt that it 's as safe as tap water in any other major first-world city . There 's numerous more information available on <URL> website . Note that all of the above comments relate to the water in Seoul . If you 're heading outside of the main metropolitan area then things could be very different and I would suggest only drinking bottled water in those areas .
For a variety of reasons , unlike most countries , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . To repeat with a footnote , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . * For a foreign traveler , even a Canadian , this is a darn good reason to <URL> * The Transit Without Visa ( TWOV ) and International-to-International ( ITI ) programs were suspended in 2003 ; all passengers connecting from and to international flights must obtain a <URL> or be covered under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . If your flight is " <URL> , " say SNN-JFK or YUL-DCA , you will be processed for health , agriculture , customs , and passport/immigration at your departing airport . Your flight into the U.S. in effect becomes a " domestic " one and your transit " domestic " as well . But Costa Rica does not have a pre-clearance treaty with the U.S. , so that is besides the point . In other words , there is no transit lounge in an airport where through passengers can wait to transfer to an outbound flight . Upon landing at your gateway airport , all passengers will disembark directly to a processing facility where they will claim their bags and go through customs and immigration procedures for entry into the United States . An immigration officer can not just take your word that you are immediately connecting to an outbound international flight , because once you have been stamped in , you are inside the United States , and could simply leave the airport if you wanted to . So if they have cause to deny you admission to the U.S. , they will deny you . As when you are denied entry to any country , the airline that brought you there is required to fly you back to your port of embarkation on the first available flight . I do not know if you would even be allowed to use your onward ticket . So , given the risk of having your trip ruined , it seems a worthy investment to avoid connecting in the U.S. and/or to get some legal advice on removing whatever blocks there are to your admission to the U.S.
You need to check with the hotel , not immigration . The hotel can report you as absconded and this will cause you all kinds of trouble when you exit the country . To be perfectly safe , I would check-in to the hotel that had the reservation , and then check-out later for my other hotel . There are rumors that hotels do report guests to immigration - but this is a post-fact reporting issue and as far as I know , there is no live link between the hotel and immigration . The reason I mention this is because frequently I have flown in for a day trip where I do n't book a hotel and this has caused no problems with immigration .
Usually , depending on the country , an embassy or consulate is where you 'd go to , in order to obtain a visa . In your case , the nearest ( that I can find ) is the <URL> . 1233 West Loop South , Park Tower North , Suite 1150 Houston , TX 77027 (713) 961-3063 / 64/65 Fax : (713) 961-3070 E-mail : consbras@brazilhouston.org So they 'd be your most likely best bet for first point of call . For a rough idea of the documentation you 'll need to apply for your visa , have a look at the <URL> - they have a solid wall of information which will be of great use . If you 're really worried about the process , your travel agent would be able to help out with the whole thing . If you do n't have a travel agent , do n't worry , really , many of us apply for visas all the time , and while the wall of documents required sounds scary , as long as you follow the steps it 's actually pretty straightforward . Note that according to the Miami website , it can take 10-45 days to process depending on the method taken , so given you are travelling in March , I 'd get the ball moving on the whole process pretty soon .
Sounds like you 're out of luck if you do n't have private transport . <URL> seems to have anything on the site itself , and it 's basically empty , so I went hunting for past reviews or blogs . As a result , there 's an excellent <URL> . Unfortunately ... You may think that the park is difficult to reach , this is not true . Fact is there is no public transport to it but to get there from Tunis , it is an easy two to two and a half hour drive . Bonus is the road is excellent , well paved and the scenery is great too . You feel like driving in southern France . So no , there 's no public transportation , but walking is probably out of the question :( You 're going to need your own or someone else 's vehicle .
Australia like most other countries have <URL> which is currently governed by <URL> . In addition there are rules for <URL> . And while Public Nuisance may not qualify as a <URL> , although there was a <URL> , you may not pass the <URL> which states among other things : having regard to the person 's past and present general conduct , the person is found to be not of good character This means that it is within the discretion of the Immigration authority to deny you visa if they find this sufficient cause to do so . So I would direct the question to an Australian Consulate on whether your particular case need to be reported as criminal record . As far as payment of a fine is concerned you can look at the results on <URL> which lists payment facilities for various states in Australia .
No , you will not get frequent flier credit if you do not fly . Irrespective of whether you check-in or not . Even if you go on board and then decide not to fly , you will be unloaded from the manifest and will not get credit * . Airlines are required to know exactly who is on board for a multitude of reasons , some of which are regulatory , and some of which are for accounting purposes . Imagine what would happen if the aircraft crashes and they 're not sure who is on board . * Mistakes happen of course , so it is possible for you to get credit for phantom flights just as much as it is possible to get no credit for flights you have flown . I 've received plenty of them ! Update responding to comments : A bit about why airlines do n't allow mileage accrual without taking a flight . Taking a flight purely for the purpose of a gaining the benefits tangential to the actual journey is termed Mileage Running . People do it because in certain circumstances , it could be possible to earn more benefits than the cost of the flight . This may be in the various different types of miles earned - redeemable ( RDM ) or qualifyfing ( EQM ) or segments ( EQS ) or points ( EQP ) and in some cases , e.g. BA or VS , Tier Points . Additionally , as Tom points out , there may be very real benefits associated with earning higher frequent flyer status . If people could do this without actually flying , there would be no such thing as a mileage run any more . Since you actually have to fly , you ca n't pounce on a cheap deal from LAX to LAS if you are currently at home in London or Paris . Even though the airlines like you to buy tickets for flights you do n't take , they do n't want you to benefit from that otherwise it would likely screw up their revenue management , amongst other things . Some links : <URL> <URL> <URL> And this one which means this thread is a duplicate ... <URL>
Although I 'd never presume to tell people what they should do , it would be quite common to tip for delivered housekeeping items such as a toothbrush , toothpaste , extra soap , extra pillow or whatever . The only thing I 'm ever likely to ask for is a toothbrush and/or toothpaste if I 've forgotten mine , and I often do n't have local currency on me . So , sometimes I have tipped and sometimes I have n't , but must say I feel a little guilty for the latter . For something like this , personally I 'd tip something like $ 2 unless I was asking for something extraordinary . What happens in some hotels is that they understand that this might be an issue and will bring up the items and hang over the door handle , knock and leave . If you rush after them you could tip them . Alternatively , ask at the front desk when you check in , especially for toothbrush and toothpaste kits . Often they have them behind the front desk and will give them to you without anyone feeling uncomforable giving/receiving a tip . If they have a shop in the hotel , it can be cheaper buying the item than getting it free .
Charging fees per guest is very unusual for the US hotels . Most charge per room , and as long as the room legal max occupancy is n't exceed , they do n't care how many people are there . Typical max occupancy is two adults ( sometime two adults and two children ) , and when you book your hotel , the booking site typically tells you this . You can test it yourself when you book your hotel by first trying to book it as " 1 adult 1 room " , and then as " 2 adults 1 room " . If you can book the same room , you 're not exceeding max occupancy , and if the price does n't increase , there are no per-guest fees . Also many US hotels , especially in the lower segment ( Motel 6 , Super 8 etc ) have open planning , meaning their doors open into the courtyard which is also a parking lot , meaning the hotel staff does n't even see you entering your room . To summarize , the easiest way would be for you to : Book a room for two adults ; Tell the hotel during check-in that your girlfriend will join you later : If you only hear back ' huh-huh ' ( I 'd say in US hotel this is 95 % probability ) , you can assume they do n't care . If they say she needs to stop by the front desk and show her ID , ask what if she arrives at 4:30 am ? If they still insist , then they do care , and in this case it is worth stopping by and showing her ID . If they say she can stop next morning , where you 'd be already leaving , then they do n't really care .
In the United States , you ca n't get into trouble just for possessing encrypted files . There is nothing illegal about encryption , and in fact most security experts recommend it for border crossings . You could , however , get " into trouble " if you refuse to decrypt it for them on request . It has happened that they have taken it to the courts and got the judge to <URL> . Considering that <URL> and <URL> alike recommend encrypting your data , it does n't seem likely to me that you will get in trouble for encrypting it , or even that the border agents would be that surprised by it ( it 's such common advice now that at least a significant percentage of tech-savvy people are probably doing it ) The US Customs and Border Patrol <URL> explaining their policies regarding the search of information and it mentions that they will take steps to ask other agencies to help decrypt files , that is , if you do n't help them first . It 's still an open question on whether they can force you to or not , for example in <URL> a woman was compelled to do it , but as they state in the article , it 's by no means a settled question yet . So it 's still worth it to encrypt your files .
end question
start question
Kungsleden ( Sweden King 's Trail ) cabins in mid-June ?
In 2016 , the cabins in that area will open on June 23 , according to the Hemavan Tourist Office : Hi David , They open a few days later that month , the 23 of june so if you can wait a few more days it is not a bad idea . Before that it can still be a lot of snow and/or very wet in the terrain so we recommend people to walk after midsummer , usually it is better conditions then . Best regards / Med vänlig hälsning Further north ( Abisko to Kebnekaise ) , the cabins actually open a few days earlier : The huts [ near Abisko ] open on June 17th . Temperatures have been really high the last weeks so chances are that the trail will be snow-free even in higher altitudes by the time the huts open . However , I would recommend contacting fjallbokning@stfturist.se for more information .
According to Wikipedia , <URL> Attempting to conceal it by disassembling will not change the legal status , but will leave you open for further legal issues . The Canadian regulations are similar , but obviously not that relevant if you ca n't first take is to Sweden .
Not quite sure what the question is . You could book a tourist trip to the USA and ask for a visa for that . If you want to wait till April 20th after you get the ticket you need to check the <URL> to get a visa interview appointment and the processing time . I checked for Chennai and it 's a week to appointment and one working day to get a visa . Delhi is only 2 days longer . Aka you have enough time . Or are you asking whether you will be given the visa just for that ? We ca n't answer that . Attending a conference is a perfect reason for a <URL> but whether you have enough ties and funds is something only they will decide .
Allemansrätten , or Every person 's right , is a freedom in Sweden which states that everyone must have access to nature . As far as I remember , there are similar rules in other Nordic countries , but I 'm not familiar with the specifics . <URL> is the Swedish environmental protection agency that regulates the access to nature . You can read the rules at length <URL> , but for your convenience , here 's the executive version : You are allowed to hike , ski , swim , ride , cycle , camp in the great outdoors , under some specific restrictions : Not allowed in cities and private gardens , or on land used for cultivation . Not allowed in vicinity of buildings ( e.g. houses ) -- at least 150 m from the nearest house . Foraging is permitted , but hunting and fishing are expressly prohibited . No motor vehicles allowed without owner 's permission , but if a private road is available , its use is permitted . When horseback riding or cycling , be careful not to damage the ground , if possible Fires are allowed , but naturally safety regulations must be observed . You can stay for a night or two in a particular spot , but for longer periods , you should ask for permission from the land owner . Or , you can just pack and go to another location . <URL> apply for natural preserves and protected areas It goes without saying that you must not destroy or damage owner 's property , and must not cause disturbance . Apart from these , the rules are pretty liberal and you are free to roam to your heart 's content in the vast Swedish countryside . Enjoy your stay !
It 's available on most ICE routes , but not all . Cost wise there it 's <URL> in standard class , though there 's a small number of roaming partners with whom you can get online in standard class too ( mostly <URL> ) . It used to be paid-for in first class as well , but as of late 2014 , it 's now free for first class customers ( matching what most other European high speed operators do for their wifi ) . <URL> that lists the current routes it 's available on , and have a <URL> . ( Note that the English language map and pages are older than the <URL> ! ) . I believe that as of 2015 , most of the major routes should offer it . A ( possibly incomplete ) list of where it 's available , as given on their website , is : Dortmund - Düsseldorf - Cologne ( also via Hagen and Wuppertal ) Cologne - Frankfurt ( Main ) Frankfurt ( Main ) - Stuttgart - Munich Frankfurt ( Main ) - Nuremberg - Munich Frankfurt ( Main ) - Hanover - Hamburg Frankfurt ( Main ) - Mannheim - Freiburg Dortmund - Hanover - Berlin Göttingen - Wolfsburg Berlin - Hamburg Fulda -- Würzburg
Usually May is a peak season because of the summer in the Philippines . Many people go to Boracay or Bagiuo . Bagiuo is the best place to go because of the cool area . It is colder than most places in the Philippines . Should you book a room in advance ? Well it depends what you are planning to do and where . Booking in advance gives you usually a better price than being in front of the hotel counter . Especially hotel websites give an instant 10 % discount if you in advance . This is their strategy to get hotel rooms booked . However , the busiest places are the usually the high priced hotels and well located . If you roam around in to the outskirt of the city or keep on searching for pensions you can get a very decent deal . They are usually not well known or they are hardly recognized as a hotel or pension . These places usually have rooms vacant and the price is low . Do not expect too much from these hotels , the standards are usually lower . If you truly ca n`t find anything try Sogo Hotel or Mircotel hotel . These hotels are usually cheap but they have a very specific clientel . Not many people want to be seen in this hotel but if you need a place this would be a last option . For weather details . In June the season is switching from Summer to Rain season . Typhoons are usually common in this season . So be prepared for much rain .
This attraction really has very very bad documentation . I would not blame your google skills for this . Unfortunately , the information is English is very bad , but not much better in German . The problem is that some years ago , all the villages had their own websites with such information , and then closed them and consolidated all to the regional and national pages . In that process , a lot of information must have been lost . I found this <URL> e to the trail , with unfortunately not much more information on it . Some more information was to be found <URL> , where they mention that the path starts in Stechelberg . That village still has it 's own <URL> dedicated to the trail . Those are also all in German however . This <URL> should be enough I hope . There is more information on site in pamphlets available . If you need more concrete information I would strongly suggest you call or email the tourist office that is listed on the website . I am sure they speak English well enough to answer the most important questions . On top of that , I can strongly recommend you the website <URL> . They list the most famous trails in the area with GPS , height and more information .
In short , the weather is great , especially towards the end of that period . The hurricane season is over ( it lasts until mid November or so ) , and it 's not extremely hot &amp; humid like it can be in the summer . In Havana , average max temperatures are between 26 and 28 ° C ( 79-82 ° F ) , while average min temperatures are 19-20 ° C ( 66-68 ° F ) . <URL> . March and April are the months with the <URL> in Cuba ; January and February may see a bit more rain , but most of the time the weather is pleasant .
Based on my experiences and conversations in Bali so far ( specifically : Ubud , Denpasar , Sanur ) , it appears that tipping works something like this : Restaurants You 're generally not expected to tip , but there are exceptions : At some restaurants , a 5 % " service fee " will be added to your bill . As printemps noted , you will encounter a sort of " share the wealth " mentality if you appear to be wealthy or are in an area heavily frequented by tourists . You should leave a 5-10k tip in these cases ( no more than 20k though ; keep reading ) . Do not leave a huge tip , even for really good service . It will be viewed as charity , and you will not leave the positive impression you were hoping for ! Taxis Taxi drivers generally do not expect tips . In Bali , taxis are not metered ; you negotiate the fare beforehand . So there is no " round up " tipping or anything of than nature . If the driver goes above and beyond ( assists with luggage , etc. ) , a 5-20k tip is appropriate . Other Services I 've heard that you should tip at spas and hairdressers , but I have n't been to any since I got here , so I can not comment . Other service providers will not expect a tip .
Too late , but for future reference and other people who are wondering : I celebrated near Skövde . Every place we visited or passed on a roadtrip after midsommar had a midsommarstång , so you can go to basically any city . Examples near Copenhagen/Lund are Falsterbö and Vikhög . Pick a city , and search google images for " cityname midsommar " , to see where they celebrate , as it differs in every place ( some use a park in the village , others a castle , some might be on a beach , ... ) . So pick a place and see if you can reach it by public transport . Or pick a place you can reach , and see if it 's good for you . Since most people do n't celebrate in a city , but rather in a small town , a small village does n't mean the festivities will be small . Looking at footage from previous years should give a good impression about how and where it 's celebrated in a given town .
Camping is always an option and is easy enough , but it may not be what you consider " similar " to roofed accommodation . Other than the ranger cabins your other option appears to be one of the three lodges in the park : <URL> <URL> <URL> All three are inside the park , just off Highway 60 . Other than that , <URL> has a number of external accommodation options within 20 or so miles of the park boundaries .
If you can stay in or near the new ' SoMo ' area - south of Moorhouse Ave , it 's the new vibrant post-quake rebuild area . My understanding is that the are some accommodation hostel / guest house spots open nearby . If you 're eyeing up motels , then Riccarton Road ( Riccarton area ) - there are lots in Papanui / Merivale as well but that area has been hit harder . There 's a mall and lots of restaurants in the area . Both ' SoMo ' and Riccarton have become more focused ' nightlife ' areas since the quakes . Riccarton will have more students , while SoMo is a slightly older demographic - late 20s/30s ( although depending on events on that night this can easily change ) .
Daytime temperatures are around 10-20 ° C which seems good for hiking ( up to 23 ° C in Tetovo ) . Nighttime temperatures can drop down to 0-5 ° C . You could get some rain and thunderstorms during a day but also few sunny days in a row ... If you go hiking for a week in April/May , you are pretty likely to get 1 to 3 days with some rain . Temperatures source : <URL>
In 2016 , the cabins in that area will open on June 23 , according to the Hemavan Tourist Office : Hi David , They open a few days later that month , the 23 of june so if you can wait a few more days it is not a bad idea . Before that it can still be a lot of snow and/or very wet in the terrain so we recommend people to walk after midsummer , usually it is better conditions then . Best regards / Med vänlig hälsning Further north ( Abisko to Kebnekaise ) , the cabins actually open a few days earlier : The huts [ near Abisko ] open on June 17th . Temperatures have been really high the last weeks so chances are that the trail will be snow-free even in higher altitudes by the time the huts open . However , I would recommend contacting fjallbokning@stfturist.se for more information .
According to the Paróquia de São Nicolau ( Church of St. Nicholas ) <URL> : Uma proposta de experiência orante em sintonia com o ritmo da comunidade de Taizé , todas as 6ª feiras das 20h às 21h . Roughly translated as : Come for a prayerful experience in tune with the pace of the Taizé Community , every Friday from 20:00 to 21:00 . <URL> on Foursquare confirm it as well : Taizé Prayer : Every Friday at 19h45m . Come and join us !
Do n't worry , you will be able to communicate in Hochdeutsch . One thing you should know is that the German you will hear and read in Austria is not the German you may hear in Hannover . There are some particularities ( <URL> , <URL> ) . However , if you have a good command of German this wo n't be a problem . Moreover , the Austrians when speaking have a typical accent when speaking German . How strong it is depends on the person . If you address an Austrian in German , he will reply in German . But how " standard " that German is depends again on the person . All this wo n't be a big issue as you have a good command of German . To get an idea of the accent and what you may here , you can have a look at <URL> . They even have features on typical Viennese words and expressions ( " Typisch Wienerisch " ) .
It being the Lake District in June , you can expect rain , gorgeous sunshine , fog , wind , calm , hot and cold , so for the first part of your question : take layers of clothing , with an outer waterproof / windproof layer take a hat take sun screen take midge repellent That 's the UK for you - very variable :-) For the second part - I would suggest booking B&amp;B 's , especially if the 5 day forecast is good , as the route can get very busy very fast . There is a lot of accommodation along the route , but you do n't want to be stuck .
Book it when you get there . Most cooking classes - even the popular ones near Bangkok 's Khao San Road - are never full . Just book them a day before you plan to attend , although sometimes you can also walk in on the day itself . Source : I did n't attend a class , but I looked around and spoke to cooking class place owners and people who took them at my hostel . I ultimately decided not to because I found them a tad expensive for my budget .
Night train through Germany are operated by <URL> . It may help to look at the map in <URL> <URL> . Another useful way to visualize your options is <URL> . For train schedules across Europe ( except the Balkans and the Russias ) , everything is conveniently available on the <URL> . If you do the whole trip by rail , there are several hurdles : From London to the continent , there 's only one option : a day train to Brussels . To cross Germany by night , you have to start in the west ( not much further than Cologne ) , and go at least as far as Hamburg ( for a very early morning arrival ) , with a train arriving in Copenhagen late in the morning . From Germany to Östersund by rail , you need to change at Copenhagen and Stockholm . You need to choose between a night trip from Copenhagen to Stockholm , one from Stockholm to Östersund , and spending the day in trains from Copenhagen to Östersund . So here are a few possibilities : There is one way to finish the trip with a long straight train journey ( on most days ; check the schedules , especially if you 're traveling near a week-end or holiday ) : take the night train 40447 to Copenhagen arriving at 10:02 , change for <URL> to Malmö then <URL> to Stockholm and <URL> to Östersund ( arriving at 22:20 ) . You need to depart from Amsterdam at 19:01 or Cologne at 22:28 ( or other points along the route ) . The problem with this approach is that since you 'll be spending so much time traveling by day that there 's no stretch of the journey left with a night train . If you 're willing to take a ferry , you can cross the North Sea from <URL> by night . You 'll be in Holland at 7:45 , giving you the best part of the day to catch the 40447 in Amsterdam or Utrecht ( 1 1/2 hours away ) . If you hurry along the western part of your journey and to the 40447 , you can be in Stockholm at 15:50 , then leave at <URL> for the night train to Östersund . That 's not much time to spend in Stockholm , and best reserved for the summer so you at least can spend some of it in daylight . If you take the <URL> , you can leave Hamburg as late as <URL> . That does n't leave much time to come from Berlin , unless you want to sample Berlin 's night life ( which is pretty lively ) . You could leave London in the afternoon , take the <URL> from Cologne to Hamburg ( 4am arrival ) , and spend a bit of time in Hamburg . You could take the night ferry to Hoek van Holland , travel to Berlin by day and spend the night there . A longer and more expensive journey goes via Paris : take a morning Eurostar , spend the day in Paris , take the overnight train to Hamburg , continue via the route of your choice . You can take a ferry from <URL> to Sweden . You can even take an <URL> on this route , the <URL> : board in Berlin at 22:31 , alight in Malmö at 08:01 ( with a connection to Stockholm arriving at 12:45 , in time to be in Östersund in the evening ) . This lets you bypass Copenhagen . If you do n't sleep through it , you 'll have the nowadays rare experience of a train loaded onto a ferry .
Ok , first of all <URL> apart from the big chains which offer free Wifi as long as you consume something . Obviously you will have to make sure that these places are open and according to your taste . A cafe or pub might be more suitable than a sushi restaurant for long-term surfing . Second of all there is a <URL> with free wifi , and this list is maintained by an online magazine and much more detailed .
end question
start question
Mexico to Tierra de Fuego , bus or own car ?
The choice is about : freedom of movement vs hassle &amp; costs . The good thing about your own vehicle is that it will take you wherever you want to go , whenever you want to go . Even to the places that are not served by public transport . The downside is that crossing borders with a car increases hassle , this will be most notable when shipping your car around the Darien Gap . The good thing about using public transport is that is easy and ( likely ) more expensive * . * ) Although public transport is considerably more expensive per mile traveled , I calculated that the costs for shipping ( + handlings and border duties ) around the Darien Gap is a big factor in the overall costs of doing this trip with your own vehicle . So driving your own vehicle may turn out to be more expensive . The more miles you travel , the cheaper driving your own vehicle will be . I did my calculations for 2 people , so I estimate it would turn out to be cheaper to drive your own car , if you do the calculations for 3 people . Most travelers I talked to told me that by selling a car in the south that you bought in the north , you will likely not lose too much money , maybe even make a small profit . ( selling a car in the north that you bought in the south is going to cost ya ) .
When it comes to tipping there are no generic rules . There are recommendations which may or may not be followed . When it comes to complimentary breakfasts or complimentary meals I usually apply a monetary value to them and tip according to that . What most people do is in this case irrelevant because it 's your money and your expectation of service if you are staying multiple days in the same hotel . So if you 're unable to see what people are leaving for tips you should consider how much this meal is worth to you and leave the tips according to that .
Most reputable car hire companies will let you pick up from the airport , although I 'm not exactly sure where the pickup point is as I live in Sydney and have never needed to do this . It is absolutely unnecessary to head into the city center from the airport , so just forget about that . From the airport you 're pretty much heading in the opposite direction from the traffic flow to the city if you are heading west towards Orange , so the likely ( not promising ) situation is light traffic . You 'll be traveling out west on the M5 whereas any morning traffic will be heading east towards the city . Just be careful not to miss the right hand turn onto the M5 , the light set up at the end of Marsh street is a bit dodgy , but once you 're on and into the tunnel just keeping heading along the M5 . Note this is also a toll road so make sure you have a handful of Aussie coins ( currently <URL> , $ 4.40 after then ) . So to answer your question , how far are you from open road ? About 5 minutes away . When I did a Google search it suggested going via Richmond , another option is to go via Katoomba . My uneducated guess is that via Katoomba is more direct , however I ca n't get Google maps to show me the calculations or the correct route for Katoomba . The problem with going through Bells line of Road ( via Richmond ) you are a little way from civilization so you may have the odd feeling of being lost every now and then whereas via Katoomba you are driving through towns and can always stop and ask directions .
Information about Russian trains schedules can be found at the <URL> : Train # 006Ь Moscow - Ulan-Bator departure at 21:35 every Wednesday , Thursday , arrival at 06:30 every Monday , Tuesday . Stop in Irkutsk at 23:25 every Sunday , Monday respectively . Train Fares <URL> departure at 17:15 every day , arrival at 06:10 . About buses from Ulan-Ude - there are some talks at local forums that buses are really go , every day , and during summer even more than one , but information is from 2009 year , and ca n't find any newer . Buses ( they said ) departure at 10-00 , and after 8-9 hours you are in Ulan-Bator , but ca n't find official link for it .
Most tours to Salar de Uyuni start from Uyuni town , you can get there both by train and bus from further north in Boliva . We took a bus from Potosí in the morning and arrived in the mid afternoon , at least 5 hours . Nice landscape but bad roads , our bus broke down twice . From Sucre you can go via Potosí , but I am not sure whether you can do the whole way from Sucre to Uyuni in one day ( light ) trip . The train leaves from Oruro , a pretty dull town between La Paz and Potosí . Even though I prefer trains as well , the reason why I did not take it was its timetable . It either leaves at 15:30 or 19:00 arriving in Uyuni at 22:20 or 2:20 respectively ( <URL> ) . Uyuni is a bit rough around the edges and I did not want to arrive there in the dark . I do n't think it is unsafe , but we still had to find accommodation and book a tour to leave the next morning . You really do n't want to spend two nights in Uyuni . Photo credit : <URL>
It is definitely better to book a car in advance , even in lower season . I would not take the risk of arriving there and not finding a suitable car . Moreover , when you book your car at home you can rent it through a broker . This way you will get a good price . And I have some doubts that you will find a better deal by pounding the rental desks at O.R. Tambo airport .
The train stops at the Niagara Falls NY train station , and everyone is inspected there . Your NEXUS card works as a passport card so you do n't need to carry your passport , but it wo n't save any time .
AIT/FIA act as guarantors for the Carnet de Passages en Douane and the <URL> do not include Pakistan in an extensive list of countries under " Where to get your CPD " . Seems may not be available in Pakistan , but it might be worth contacting Automobile Association of Pakistan and Motorsport Association of Pakistan as these are both FIA members . The <URL> has some cost information , though other issuing organisations presumably differ . Sorry , that link is dead ( there is no longer any representative in the UK that issues CDPs ) .
You should definitely try <URL> , as pointed out by mts in the comments . It is much used in the Vallée du Rhône , I 'm sure you will find a friendly driver . If you do n't find your route directly on the website , try broadening the start/finish of your trip by looking on a map . I used blablacar a lot as a driver , unfortunately not in this area . Also , if you do these trips regurlarly , there might be some subscriptions with the SNCF that could lower the price per journey .
You can catch the <URL> ( no relation ) every 15-30 minutes all day from Manhattan to Manorville , then a taxi back to Brookhaven National Laboratory . The taxi fare may be quite a bit cheaper this way than from Ronkonkoma as the distance is shorter . It may also be faster , depending on time of day , since the bus has only one stop between Manhattan and Manorville . The bus picks up at 40th and Lexington , so you 'll have to go crosstown several blocks from Port Authority ; either take the 7/7X from Times Square/42nd St to Grand Central Terminal , or walk it .
Currently , no . There is no road connecting the two countries . Briefly and recently , a ferry ran between Panama and Colombia . However , it seems it is no longer available : <URL> is empty , <URL> is suspended . <URL> suggests the ferry did n't run for most of 2015 either .
I found an official site for the <URL> , and according to it , there is really a <URL> , which will be at your station at 13:06 local time . There is no other trains to the Bucharest , <URL> ( and <URL> ) , so I think this train will be :) According this site , the price will be <URL> . All I can find about the romanian buses is <URL> with the list of sites . Most informative was <URL> , but I ca n't find any bus from Murfatlar there , only from Constanța station ( near ) , so I think the train will be cheaper .
I found a website <URL> . The quality/price range is quite significant , so it might be worth not grabbing the first thing on the shelf but rather going for a specific product . The one that the above website gave the best rating is available <URL> for example .
<URL> shows the C12 route taking 57 minutes ( and 15 stops ) , traveling more directly west-east . <URL> also shows an alternative route , the S10 train to a connection with the C10 bus in Como , which takes about 2 hours . Its <URL> that shows the numerous stops and includes towns that document the 1-hour route ( such as Cima , Porlezza , Croce ) . The <URL> is in effect between 9 June to 11 September ; winter schedule begins on 12 September ( through 8 June ) . To interpret the abbreviations used on the schedule : Scol are those that run on school days ( scolastici ) , which include Saturdays . Fer6 means buses that run Monday-Saturday ( all six feriale or working days ) ; Fer5 are for buses that run Monday-Friday . Fest indicates Sunday and national holidays ( festivo ) . Gior is every day or daily ( giornaliero ) .
The British FCO seems to indicate that Dengue Fever is still a risk in Mexico : <URL> ( Scroll down or CTRL-F to find the passage about Dengue Fever )
It does not cover all the regular busses in the country but <URL> is the main operator and does operate busses you could use . Unfortunately , it 's not a part of the national train company ( ÖBB ) and the website therefore also includes trains , which is why busses do not show up in the search results for this particular journey ... rome2rio is another site that 's very nice for intermodal comparisons , and it seems that in this case the <URL> . ( You will notice that the busses suggested by rome2rio can also be found on the postbus website , but only if you look for them one-by-one ) .
My parents live in Anuradhapura and I live in Kandy , and I make this trip up and down at least once a month . The earliest Intercity from A/pura to Kandy is at 4.30-5 AM from A/pura . Reaches Kandy at about 7.30 AM , depends on the traffic . The last bus departs at 7.30 PM , reaches Kandy at 9.30-10PM but you will not find any other buses in A6 road ( Kandy to Mahiyangana road which has many tourist hotels ) , Three-wheelers are available but expect to pay a slightly higher price . For A1 ( Kandy to Colombo ) , you will find a bus even at the mid-night . Kandy to A/pura buses are available every 30 mins from 6.30 AM to 6.45 PM . You can call +94252225257 ( A/pura bus depot ) and ask them if they have buses available . Also , there are 2 routes in between A/pura and Kandy . 42 and 43 . A/C buses are only available in 43 because the 42 is a little bumpy road near A/pura . Buses in 42 route , IMO , are very uncomfortable compared to 43 's .
OK , here 's the answer . Three hours after making my booking I 've received the following email from National Express : So the answer is to wait a few hours while they issue a ticket .
LTE is ( almost ) everywhere in Japan , I 'm writing this from a mountain resort town while tethered to my iPad . You can get prepaid sim cards at most of the electronics shops , look for " IIJ " on the package . 3000 yen data only is lots for any vacation unless you spend too much time on youtube or video calls . It is possible your home service will work , but you really do n't want to pay the roaming charges . if you want a callable number it 's a bit more difficult , but between email , messaging and audio/video call applications ( Skype , facetime etc ) an actual phone number is less important than it once was . My mobile rings maybe once a month these days , and that 's only because wifey does n't want to buy a smartphone .
The vehicle temporarily imported by the owner may be driven in Mexico by the spouse or adult children , as long as they have the same immigration status . Other persons may drive the vehicle as long as the owner is in the vehicle . <URL>
end question
start question
Can I ask for two meals for my flight without paying extra ?
A cabin crew member here ... In general , flight attendants will be happy to give you the extra meal after the service is done , because they know it will be <URL> anyway . Out of experience , there are always some extra meals , at least one or two . Sometimes passengers simply do not take a meal , some other times there 's just an extra meal or two loaded for whatever reason . In some other flights , there 's a shortage actually . They usually cover for this by using the crew meals , and this is rare anyway . Is it ok ? Yes , nothing wrong with it , flight attendants will not think badly of you . As long as you ask nicely , of course . One more thing , all meals usually get heated at the same time . Once heated they are good to be eaten for a certain time , then they ca n't be served to passengers . So , if you feel you want an extra meal , ask for it . I have seen so much food being wasted while I was sure many people were hungry but were shy just like you . When to ask When they are serving you , give them a hint that you would love to have an extra meal if it 's possible after they are done . Personally , when this happens I might give them right away if I know that there are extra meals . Otherwise I will just wait until service is done and then come back with the extra meal , or apologize if I could n't find any . Note : I am talking about full service airlines . For budget airlines where food is bought onboard , you can pay extra and get more food . That 's a different story .
It happens in quite a few countries , even in the USA . It depends on the card processing bank that the merchant is using . Some request that the merchant document validity of the card in " card not present " transactions . You find it most when a charge is done manually , such as sending your card details to a Travel Company or hotel and then they process the charge manually , usually at a later date . It provides some assurance that when they try to run the card , it is actually yours and not something that will show up stolen after they have already made bookings and arrangements on your behalf . If you are paying immediately through an online system , they usually do n't need this , as you provide some form of verification such as the CVV and billing address right then and there . And the charge is authorized before proceeding with finalization of your booking .
Unless it is a significant amount , changing coins is n't worth it . The amounts are small and most banks and foreign exchanges wo n't accept coins generally . My solution is to collect the left over foreign coins until I fly on an airline that participates in the <URL> program and then donate them . British Airways and Virgin also have their own programs . It is a great concept as a small amount of foreign coins is n't very valuable to you , but when compounded across thousands of passengers a year , it can make a real difference . If you do n't want to wait until your next flight to donate , many charity shops ( at least in the UK ) accept foreign coins .
<URL> Just choose the Whole Month as departure and arrival date . You will be presented with a graphic in which you can pick the departure date , the arrival calendar will update accordingly .
It should be fine in the hand luggage , I have never heard of having any issues carrying them before so it should be ok .
Frankly , the ' best ' raw freely available interface is ITA Matrix . While you ca n't actually book flights on it , it allows you to specify any number of airpots , combinations , routing codes and more - it 's really powerful . It then also breaks down the booking codes , so that you can in theory take those to a travel agent and they can match the route . Or , once you see that the best flight from A to B via H is with Airline Z , you then start looking at booking sites for that flight with Z , or directly on Z 's website . For amazing detail on how to use it , as well as its undocumented features , <URL> . In some ways it 's like a form of programming when you look at it , example :
The important thing to do , is to know what flag your card belongs . What I realized in my trips was the ATM machines do n't cares about the bank or country of your card . The flag is important . If the flag belongs to Visa or Mastercard , being assured that even most of ATM Machines will accept this . This is important also to discover if the bank that has emitted your card has agreement with other banks around the world . This implies on : if you ca n't withdraw your money on any in ATM Machine , you can do it on a bank that has agreement with yours . But do n't carry all your money in your card . For you own safe , it 's important to carry some amount in cash . That prevent you both in case of lost of your card and in case of you ca n't withdraw your money in an ATM machine . I hope this can help you .
Oh , I basically did this in July , from mid-afternoon until late evening when my flight out happened . Assuming you do n't want to just grab a cab and go down to the waterfront ( it 's nice and there are cafes and the market ) , the airport does n't have much . At all . Landside You have a choice of two Costa Coffees , and a small restaurant place with some Indian-like food ( much Omani cuisine is inspired by Indian food ) . It 's nothing fancy . That 's it . The rest of the shops are cellphone sim card stalls , and care-hire , basically . Airside Going through check-in , you get to go upstairs , and this is bigger - but now you 're going to have Wendy 's , Subway , and that style - plus one small restaurant that serves shish kabob and wraps . And souvenir shops and exchange places . It was pretty limited . They also claimed to have free wifi , but it was n't working when I was there . All day . My recommendation - landside , get into that restaurant ( it 's opposite the small Costa ) , and settle in at one of the booths . Each booth has a powerpoint , and you can just chill and watch movies on your device or listen to music , while people watching a bit and occasionally buying a drink . Otherwise though , no , I did a lot of laps walking , but there 's really not much else to see . If you can , you 're far better off adventuring outside , even if for a short time . Town is pretty close - go see the new mosque at night , it 's quite a sight !
You are an EU national living in the UK and want to sponsor your cousin for a short visit . Your cousin is an Indian national who is working in Oman . From Paragraph 24 of the rules , your cousin will need an entry clearance . In order to be successful , he will need to clear all of the points listed in Paragraph 41 of the rules . See <URL> Your cousin should apply on-line as a GENERAL VISITOR . Near the end of the application , he will answer some questions about making a biometrics appointment at a facility in Oman . Once the appointment is booked , he will see a page of information on what to do next . If you are lawfully in the UK and have the financial capacity along with an acceptable level of credibility , you can participate in the application process by offering to help . Because cousins do not have the degree of relationship needed to qualify as family , your cousin will be treated as a FRIEND , and they will need a pretty clear understanding of why you want to do this . For example , do you normally sponsor your cousins in the same way ? What 's special about this particular point in time ? With this background information , your cousin should start by opening an account and going through the application rigmarole at <URL>
Excess baggage fees are normally per flight but there are variations . In general , fees are charged at check-in time , so they end-up per check-in in most cases . If have to check-in separately for one leg of your flight , you will often be asked to pay the extra fee again . Arguing could help but in my experience they rarely budge , particularly if they are not the same airline as the previous leg . In practice this means : Try to check you baggage and have it tagged all the way through . Even if you have flights back-to-back , as opposed to legs , you can ask the check-in agent to tag the baggage to your final destination while makes it possible to even skip an excess baggage fee .
When reading the FAQ and different parts of the website , the provided information is quite confusing , it might be possible to add passengers for free , depending on your fare type . For one , <URL> that any change for the Dover-Dunkirk route should happen on the phone and that there will be a cost of 10GBP/15EUR plus the difference between the former and new price ( depending on the day you change your booking ) But at the top of the website , there is an <URL> link and the details of possible operations include for routes from Dover to France . There is a <URL> about this amendment feature and it says , which suggests you can change the information you filled in the first place . It mentions that before the booking is actually updated , you would have to pay the possible extra charges . On top of that , they <URL> , and clearly state the Economy type has a 10GBP charge for booking amendments , but not the Flexi type . So most likely , any change would result in a 10GBP charge . If you already made a booking , I would recommend you to try the amendment tool right away and try to simulate your changes , to see if you can actually amend your booking and if they charge you any extra . If you have not made a booking yet , try to ask your friends to make a decision before you book , since the amendment is likely not to be free if you book the " Economy " fare . Note that if you book at least 2 days in advance ( e.g. a Wednesday for the Friday ) , prices do not fluctuate a lot . They seem to change from 35 to 65 GBP , probably depending more on the time of the week/time of the year than how early you book . In particular the 10 GBP charge seems to matter more than or at least as much as the price fluctuation ( I have not run a deep analysis of the price evolution but prices 2 days away can be as low as 35 GBP , except on Friday evening , and prices a month away can be as high as 65 GBP )
As was explained in the comments : The way that all the airline booking systems work , it is not possible to have people on different booking ( fare ) classes on the same ticket . If you have two people on the same flights in the same booking classes , it 's fine . If you have two people on the same flights but different booking classes ( could be business and economy , or even just flexible vs non-flexible economy ) , then they must be on different tickets and PNRs . You therefore need to make two different bookings for you , one for the people in one booking class ( + cabin ) , one for the people on the same flight but in the other booking class . Your best bet in this case is to skip the internet , and talk to ( shock horror ! ) a person . Be that a travel agent , or the airline 's booking line , either should work . They will create the two itineraries for you , hold them while you confirm you 're happy and double check that everything else is the same , then ticket the two for you . They should also be able to attach notes to indicate the bookings are linked . Oh , and one thing to be aware of , because you 'll have two bookings , if there 's a problem with the flight and it gets cancelled , you will almost certainly have to speak with another human . Otherwise , you may find that you and your wife are re-routed one way , your kids another , because the automated re-booking system wo n't necessarily know to keep the two together because they 're on different bookings . Note that if by " mixed-class tickets " what you means was the more common " one way in economy , return in business " or something like that , then many ( but not all ) online flight booking systems will be able to sell you the ticket , as will the airline or a travel agent .
Airlines tend to charge full fare for last minute bookings , rather than discounting it to try and fill one more seat . The stereotypical last minute booking is from a business person , who has to be there and is flying on someone else 's dime , hence does n't mind paying whatever is asked . So there is no real motivation to discount the fares . The number of people like yourself who might be looking for a cheap last minute escape are a very small minority . Usually about the only thing that gets discounted at the last minute is upgrades , as airlines may try to raise a bit of last minute cash if their first class is empty and there are n't that many eligible elite flyers on the flight . All that said , there is nothing wrong with giving it a shot , as there are exceptions to every rule of thumb . Just do n't get your hopes up .
TL ; DR : If you know you 're going , and there 's a fare you can afford , book it . Waiting will almost never save you money , and never enough to offset paying double or triple the cheapo fare because you waited too long . Detailed explanation , with pictures : The problem is that there is no single " the price " that goes up and down . On any given flight you can buy as many as a dozen different tickets , each at a different price . They carry different privileges -- eligible to earn frequent flyer miles , lower change fees , lounge access , seat selection included , less credits needed to upgrade , free meal , etc -- depending on the airline . Often , some or all of those privileges mean very little to you and you will just buy the cheapest one . When all of the absolutely cheapest ones are gone , you have to buy the next most expensive class , and that means you will pay more . So how do prices go up ? By the cheapest seats getting bought . How do they go down ? By those seats being cancelled and returned to the pool ( unlikely , since they have high change fees and are bought by people who have firm plans ) , by discount codes or overall " seat sales " being issued , or by seats being moved from one class to another . That last thing is called " yield management " and it is what some very smart people do for a living . They do n't want a plane to go out with an empty seat ( getting $ 0 for it ) but they do n't want to sell it to you 3 months in advance for $ 200 if somebody with an urgent need to travel would pay $ 1500 for it the week of the flight . So they might decide to move an unsold seat from the $ 1500 fare class to the $ 200 fare class , but only if they are sure that 's the only way they 'll sell it . You can see that they can go out with an empty seat 5 times , and the 6th time sell the seat for a premium , and still be ahead overall . They are pretty good at guessing how many " urgent needs " are likely to arise in a given week . And trust me , the holiday season is rich in " urgent needs " . The chances of cheaper seats being available right when everyone wants to fly are slim to none . There are ways to watch the fare classes on a given flight . For example Air Canada offers Tango , Tango Plus , Latitude , Discount Business , and Business . Tango and Tango plus actually have some smaller fare classes inside them . If you look at a random city pair on a random day , you will see something like this : You can see that already , on many of the flights , all of the Tango fares are gone . There are clearly two prices for Tango , and only one flight has the cheaper one left . Similarly there are 3 prices for Tango Plus . And so on . As it gets closer and closer , fares will disappear from some flights . Over time , you can get familiar with the patterns between two cities . You might notice that the 7am flight is alway last to lose its cheap fares , and wait till you see a pattern like this one before you buy . As always , it helps to be unusual . If you prefer a flight at a time of day most people do n't ( like 7am ) you can pay less . If you are n't trying to fly the Friday before Xmas , you 'll pay less . And so on . But look at the difference between Tango and Tango plus here . When all that 's left is $ 597 fares on every flight , they can have a 20 % off sale and bring it down to $ 477 - but you would have been better off with $ 364 in the first place . If you know you 're going , and there 's a fare you can afford , book it . Waiting will almost never save you money , and never enough to offset paying double or triple the cheapo fare because you waited too long . Update Nov 7th , two weeks later : Look what has now happened to that same YYZ-YVR flight on the same date , Dec 23rd : Every flight has gone up dramatically , except ( for some strange reason ) for the last flight of the day . Waiting a few weeks to book would have cost you hundreds of dollars . Let 's also look at a flight two weeks later ( the same distance from today as my first set of prices , but not a holiday ) See how much cheaper those Dec 23rd flights might have been before Oct 23rd , when I took the first screenshot ? The cheapest is 229 ( each way , before taxes and addons , but that 's not the point ) while today the cheapest for the 23rd is 374 , almost double , and if landing at 1am Vancouver time , 4 am body time , does n't seem feasible then it 's going to be $ 607 , almost triple . Ouch . I see no benefit to waiting ... but I plan to update this answer again in a few weeks :-) Update Nov 24th , two-and-a-bit weeks closer to Xmas : Still looking at YYZ-YVR on Friday Dec 23rd , same airline : Now it 's really awful . The cheapest is $ 607 , in fact some of the economy classes now being sold cost more than sitting in business class would cost ! Again let 's advance to some point as far away from now as Dec 23rd was when I started this . Say Jan 23rd . Wow ! Now some flights are as little as $ 199 ! Notice also that there are two less flights on Jan 23rd than on Dec 23rd . The airline has added as much capacity as it can for the route on t
Yes , the observation deck of Haneda 's international terminal is the public landside area and open to all . Incidentally , Narita stopped doing checks on entry some time ago , but even when they were doing them , they wanted only ID , not tickets . Plenty of people visit airports to meet or see off passengers .
I 'm a German , living in Chile and extended my tourist visa several times in the past , the last time in January this year . This information is based on my personal experience . In short : Yes , you can extend your tourist visa for 90 more days for a fee of 100 US$ . In detail : It is possible to extend your tourist visa once for another 90 days . To do so you have to go to an Extranjeria ( Foreigners Office ) before your visa expires but within the last 30 days of your visa ( it is possible to go on the very last day but try to avoid it ! ) To find your nearest Extranjeria go to <URL> and scroll down to " En regiones " . You 'll have to take your passport and the Tarjeta de Turismo ( Tourist card ) , that you got when you entered the country from the PDI . You may have to present a photocopy of both documents ( I never had to ) . I advice you to get to the Extranjeria very early ( before they open ) as usually people queue up and they may only attend to a certain number of people each day ( for example 80 in La Serena ) . After taking your data you will be issued a paper in order to pay 100 US$ . You will pay this in local currency ( at the moment about Ch $ 70,000 ) at any bank ( not the Extranjeria itself ! ) . They will retain your Tarjeta de Turismo . You can collect your extended visa usually about a week later , presenting proof of payment ( the stamped paper ) . Ask how long it will take ! Anyway , it is not strictly necessary to collect your visa extension within the expiration period of your tourist visa . I advice to go at least one day later than advertised by the Extranjeria staff as your visa extension may still be filed in inaccessible parts of their system . Yes , Chilean bureaucracy is not the most efficient ... Do n't be surprised if they just hand you back your Tarjeta de Turismo with a handwritten slip of paper stapled to it . Some other points : If you overstayed your visa you have to go to the Policía de Investigaciones ( PDI ) first . You should be able to speak an intermediate level of Spanish as the staff will most likely not speak English ! The procedure may vary slightly from region to region and probably in Santiago , check the <URL> and take a copy of your passport and Tarjeta de Turismo just in case . The alternative to extending the visa is to leave the country . I advice to stay at least one day outside of Chile as I heart several stories about people being uncomfortably questioned when returning the very same day . If you plan to leave the country do so with anticipation ! The weather can be rough and routes to neighbouring countries close very frequently especially during winter time . Attempt to leave the country at least one week before the visa expires . An expired tourist visa is not a dramatic thing . You may have to pay a small fine ( or it may be waived ) but it is a bureaucratic hassle , especially if you do n't speak Spanish . More here : <URL> You can ask for another extension of the tourist visa after having re-entered Chile , essentially only having to leave the country every 180 days . I have done this for 1,5 years without any question from the authorities whatsoever . I do not recommend to leave the country instead of asking for an extension to the tourist visa . It is next to impossible to leave Chile and re-enter on a budget of 100 US$ and you will loose time also ( unless you would like to visit a neigbouring country ) . Chilean migration procedures are quite time-consuming but Chile is surprisingly open to tourists moving across the borders as often as they please , in my experience ! The latter is worth stressing ! Depending on your nationality you might get a more negative impression , especially if you are from Bolivia , Peru or Colombia ( based on talk overheard while waiting for hours in offices of the Extranjeria ) .
If your itinerary is DUB-LHR-LAX , then that Dublin and Shannon have US Pre-Clearance facilities is pretty much irrelevant . Your DUB-LHR flight , while not technically domestic , is essentially similar since you should n't have to enter the UK during transit . You will clear US Immigration and Customs at LAX . You should expect to get any required forms * from the cabin crew sometime during the LHR-LAX flight . * CBP has notably automated their processes now . BA , presumably , will play a video before arrival that describes the process and what travelers are exempt from what procedures .
If you were storing a few bags for one day , or one bag for a few days , you might have more options . To leave a few bags for a few days , however , you will need to do some legwork . The first place I would check would be with your hotel in San Francisco . Some hotels are more willing to do this than others , and storage conditions may vary widely -- a locked room in some cases , stacked in a corner behind the desk in others . It is extremely common for guests to ask that bags be held for a few hours on the day of checkin or checkout ; asking for multiple days is worth a shot , especially if you are staying there for several days , and most especially if you are staying there before and after the excursion . Generous tips ( before and after ) to the concierge or bell desk may help . The second place I would check is with the motorcycle rental agency . You 're hardly the first people to not want to lug suitcases around on the back of a bike . I know EagleRider and MotoQuest explicitly do offer luggage storage as a complimentary service . I would also check to see if any private clubs you are a member of have reciprocal relationships with San Francisco-area private clubs , and if they have facilities you could leave the bags at . For example , members of the <URL> can request an invitation from the <URL> . It 's a thought . But there 's little incentive for a company or other organization with no relationship with you to accept . They do n't want to store , or be accused of storing , anything dangerous or illegal , and they do n't want responsibility for the bags or anything in them being stolen . The only public left luggage facility in San Francisco proper , so far as I can tell , is at the <URL> at <URL> ( toward the eastern end of Fisherman 's Wharf ) , which charges $ 5 per bag . The lady with whom I just spoke on the phone , however , says they do not permit overnight storage . You could call around to other hotels and hostels and see by trial and error if anyone will take them on . The Chancellor Hotel comes up in some web searches as an option . The Pacific Tradewinds Hostel <URL> storage to its guests . Now , maybe you do n't care to stay there , but at $ 32/night , booking a bunk that stays empty would still be cheaper than the airport ATA . The <URL> and <URL> say they offer luggage storage facilities , but I could not find any information on the services , prices , or policies . Online comments about the temporary transbay bus terminal are universally negative . Emeryville is not especially easy to get to by public transportation , either ; you would need to take BART to <URL> then the <URL> shuttle bus . Speaking of BART , I have seen some people advise renting a bicycle locker , but this takes a lot of advance planning , and presumably , a local address for your application form , only to leave your bags half-exposed to the elements and at risk of theft . I do n't recommend it . Further down the list , you could rent a car , stick the bags in the trunk , and find someplace safe and cheap to park for the duration of your excursion . I extended a rental car for a day once precisely for this purpose in Hawaii , but have no recommendations for the Bay Area .
You should not apply for a tourist visa , but apply for an " <URL> " instead . You ask the EuroPython to send you an invitation letter and then use that to <URL> . The <URL> should be in Italian .
The site explains : If all the times are taken , the following message will be displayed : " no tickets available for the date requested " . Choose another day ( or purchase your ticket for immediate entry at the monument ticket counters ) . That says to me that if you ca n't buy online , you can still go up , but you 'll have to wait in a ( possibly long ) line . This is a Monday morning , 9 years ago - I would n't mind waiting in this line ( in fact , I waited in one just like it before I got the picture ) : However , it can clearly get <URL> . Investigate those pictures more closely to see what your chances might be like on a weekend .
end question
start question
Where should I travel in Europe if I want to climb a high mountain without equipment ?
Assuming you 're also exluding mountains only accessible by <URL> , the highest one I 've heard of is <URL> ( 3438 m ) in Italy near the border to France . Here 's a <URL> . The most difficult/dangerous part can be seen at 1:40 - and you can see that it 's a very popular tour .
I was in Puerto Vallarta last week , and did some asking around , but with very little success . Cycling does n't seem to be popular there . The closest I found was some motorcycle and 4-wheeler rental places . I know it 's not quite the same experience , but at least you could be " out in nature " on some wheels ... Also , in my experience in other parts of Mexico , mountain biking just is n't popular . Hiking is , to a degree , and cross-country biking . But I 've never seen or heard of mountain biking , per se . And I 've never seen any trails suitable for mountain biking ( but maybe they 're kept at great distance from the hiking trails where I 've been ... shrug ) Here are a couple places I found : Harley Davidson Rentals 322-118-8800 322 -185 -1984 On the corner of Avenida México &amp; Calle Nicaragua Cool Rentals &amp; Cool Tours 322-223-3239 On Avenida México between Calle Honduras and Calle Panamá Avenida México is the main street that runs one-way north to south through the main part of Puerto Vallarta , so both of these places should be easy to find . They were both closed when I went by , so I was not able to go in and ask for any details or prices . Likewise , I can not make any actual recommendations . I hope this is of some use to you , even though it 's not related to bicycles directly . Have fun in Puerto Vallarta !
Ireland is part of <URL> that comprises the islands of Ireland , Great Britain , the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands , but <URL> : Unlike the Schengen Agreement , the Common Travel Area provides no mechanism for the mutual recognition of leave to enter and remain , and the United Kingdom and Ireland operate entirely separate visa systems with distinct entry requirements . In general , a United Kingdom visa will not allow a traveller entry to Ireland , nor vice-versa . Since your visa is single entry I would recommend you to stay in Ireland if you can not obtain multiple entry visa .
In Netherlands there is this <URL> The entire airplane has been converted into a single luxury suite for two guests . This means you have the complete craft at your disposal -- including its top-flight facilities , which include a Jacuzzi , separate shower , infrared sauna , mini bar , 3 flat screen televisions , blu-ray DVD player with a comprehensive collection of DVDs , a pantry with oven/microwave combination , coffee and tea maker , free wireless internet , air conditioning , etc. . PRICE : An overnight stay for 2 persons including a luxury breakfast costs $ 350 . The airplane is available to you from 15:00 on the day of your arrival to 11:00 on the day of your departure . There 's also a <URL>
This map shows the tropical rain forest in the whole world . As you can recognize , the rain forest in Africa are geographically located closest to Europe . Other references also state that the rain forest in Gambia are the closest rain forest to Europe , for example <URL> . A quick matrix flight search turns out that you can get there from central Europe ( I tried Frankfurt , Germany and all airport in a radius of 300 miles ) for less than 500 Euros , and it is an only 1-stop flight . Other flights to typical rain forest destinations as for example Manaus in Brazil seem to be a little bit more expensive .
TL ; DR : You need liability insurance with a high limit . Your credit card wo n't get you that . Try to get your liability insurance from home , and failing that buy it at the rental desk . Your credit card might help you if you wreck the rental car , but read the fine print if you are relying on your credit card for that . You Need Liability Insurance ( from somewhere ) You need to secure liability insurance of some sort . If you are involved in an accident where there are personal injuries , your liability can easily exceed your net worth . In other words , an accident can bankrupt you . Exactly how much you might be personally liable for will generally depend on the following : the particulars of the accident the laws in the place where the accident occurred the liability insurance you carry By definition , you ca n't predict an accident . Getting a good handle on the laws regarding liability in motor-vehicle accidents in every place you travel is unrealistic . So , the only way you can mitigate your risk is by controlling the liability insurance you carry . What should my liability insurance limit be ? Insurance policies often have a maximum liability that they will shelter you from . $ 1 million seems to be common in North America . What does the limit mean ? Suppose you are in an accident where you are ultimately found liable for $ 3 million and you have a policy with a $ 1 million limit . Your insurance will pay $ 1 million to the plaintiff and you will owe the other $ 2 million . So , how do you work out how much coverage you need ? Warning : Unpleasant stuff coming up . If you do n't like thinking about accidents , horrible situations , and worst-case scenarios , skip to the next section . The answer is to get the highest liability coverage limit you can get . Everyone else , read on . Here 's how I work out how much liability insurance I carry . Based on some cursory research I once did , it is my understanding that many courts use , in part , lifetime lost wages and cost-of-care to calculate damages . So , the worst-case accident is probably maiming a vehicle of young professionals . Let 's make some assumptions : there are 5 people in the car all are professionals earning $ 70,000 per year all are 23 years old all are expected to live until 80 years old all are injured so badly that they ca n't ever work again all require care costing $ 30,000 per year for the rest of their lives The math goes like this : $ 100,000 per person per year x 5 people x 67 years = $ 33.5 million . You wo n't be able to buy a policy that gives you that much coverage ( the highest I 've found is $ 10 million ) , so just get the highest coverage you can obtain . Some of you might be thinking " I do n't need liability insurance because I do n't have any net worth to lose if I am liable . " That may be true . You may be broke and you may be able to maim a car full of people without you or your non-existent insurance paying them a cent . But , by knowingly driving around uninsured you are effectively saying " I am putting other humans at risk of life and limb and have declined to provide them with any possibility of compensation if I hurt them just so I can save a few bucks on insurance , and I think that 's OK . " It 's your choice . I know where my moral compass points . Your credit card ( most likely ) wo n't provide you with liability insurance . I have only seen <URL> that offers liability coverage of any kind for rental cars -- there might be others out there , but no card I have been eligible for provides liability coverage . ( If you do find one others , please link to the policy wording document in the comments . ) Credit card policies typically provide coverage for loss and damage to the vehicle but not liability coverage . You can get liability insurance from the rental car company , but you wo n't really know what you 're buying . Every car rental company I have rented from offers some sort of " liability insurance " at the point where you sign the rental agreement . There are a few problems with buying such insurance : the coverage limit is usually $ 1 million or less there are usually all sorts of exclusions in the policy wording sometimes the rental desk can not even provide you with a policy wording document assuming you can get a policy wording document from the desk , it would generally take hours of reading to understand what you are actually covered for it is almost impossible to obtain a policy wording document beforehand , and , even if you can get a rental company to provide you with one , there 's no guarantee that the one you agree to when you pick up your car will be the same Despite all of these problems , buying coverage at the rental desk is almost certainly better than not having any coverage . Furthermore , there are many circumstances where it is your only practical means of obtaining liability coverage . Get liability coverage for your rental car from an insurer in your home country/state/province . It is common that you can obtain liability insuran
I will be travelling around many Western European countries which I expect to not have these sorts of experiences . Actually , <URL> .
Right , this took some searching , as most sites just mention the artists like Youssou N'Dour . According to the <URL> , number 687 ( in the edition I looked at ) is experiencing Mbalax in Dakar , Senegal . And apparently , local and international legend Seck hosts live mbalax nights at the Kilimanjaro club , next to the Soumbedioune evening fish market .
I 'm afraid I ca n't find any government numbers to back up my anecdotal evidence , but Shinjuku , Shibuya and Ikebukuro are all very safe - much safer than their equivalents in London , New York or any other ' world ' city . I 've spent many nights in each , in varying states of sobriety , and never had any problems at all . I 've lost my wallet a few times ( on trains , in bars and the like ) and never failed to retrieve it - either at the time from a fellow reveller , or at a police box ( koban ) later on . Kabuki-cho is the closest thing you 'll get to a ' red light ' district . Plenty of ' love hotels ' , hostess clubs , adult shops and yakuza ( Japanese mob ) to go around . Even so , much like Amsterdam 's equivalent , it 's as much an entertainment spot and centre of nightlife as it is a red light district . Whilst I would n't go swearing in Japanese at any of the well-heeled , little-finger-deprived yakuza that hang out there , they will seldom even look at a foreigner , never mind cause them any trouble . Too much hassle . Roppongi is slightly different in that it 's really a foreigner hotspot - plenty of dodgy bars and clubs , particularly of the ' hostess ' variety , which will invite you in and charge you hundreds of dollars for a drink and some chat time with a Japanese hostess . Technically you 're paying for the drink , but argue at the price and expect a rude exit from the establishment . If there were anywhere in Tokyo you should n't go , it 'd be here at night - but only because it 's not very nice , as opposed to dangerous . During the day Roppongi has some rather spectacular architecture , and is home to a bunch of Western and Japanese companies , as well as a ton of embassies . Not really a hellhole by any standards . As with any country , common sense rules . Make sure to keep your valuables in a safe place or tucked away on your person . If you 're dangling a wallet full of holiday fun time yen as you saunter through a train station it 's more likely someone will try to help you and point it out , but still , it 's better not to in the first place . Do n't leave luggage lying about either - it wo n't get stolen , but the police do n't like that sort of thing in case it 's something more sinister . Long story short - at no point in Tokyo will you ever cross some boundary from ' nice part crime-wise ' to ' holy christ it 's the Baltimore projects ' . Those boundaries do n't really exist .
Assuming you 're also exluding mountains only accessible by <URL> , the highest one I 've heard of is <URL> ( 3438 m ) in Italy near the border to France . Here 's a <URL> . The most difficult/dangerous part can be seen at 1:40 - and you can see that it 's a very popular tour .
Yes , not because the bars and hotels want to check it ( some will ) , but because the police have the authority to stop you in the street and demand identification and the proof that you are staying in Japan legally . Source : got checked for passport in JR Tokyo Station .
I ended up getting a typhoid shot at the Zagreb city-run Andrija Stampar Teaching Institute of Public Health ( Croatian : Zavod za javno zdravstvo " Dr. Andrija Štampar " , <URL> ) . The address is <URL> . Look for the signs for " epidemiologija " , just to the left inside the main entrance . The medical staff spoke good English , the cost was around $ 30 ( April 2016 ) , and I was in and out in about 20 minutes .
Usual regional ( not highspeed ) trains do n't require ( or offer ) reservations ; so yes , you can just go there , buy a ticket , and enter the train . However , the South Korean " standing seat " system ( if I understood it correctly ) is not known here . With reservation , you 'll have a guaranteed seat ; and without reservation , you may have to stand ( anywhere ) or you 're lucky and find an empty , unreserved seat . There are no lower prices for people refraining from using seats at all . For many high-speed trains ( ES Frecciarossa/Frecciargento/Frecciabianca , InterCity ) , seat reservations are mandatory . For Pisa-Firenze , this wo n't be a problem , there are many regional trains ( I 'm not even sure if there are non-regional trains at all ) . If you need/want to take a high-speed train somewhere , usually it 's still no problem to buy the ticket right before entering ; most trains are not sold out . However , buying in advance is probably cheaper .
I used to tie the zips of my backpack together with my hair , thinking that if notice the loose hair being broken my luggage would have been tampered with . On one occasion the hair , binding one zipper was broken , so I went to customs to express that I suspect somebody went through my stuff . There was nothing wrong with my luggage , but the custom officer also told me that in case something was found in my luggage , I would still be a prime suspect even after I reported it . So having a lock might not be waterproof against tampering . The answer by a very knowledgeable travel.se contributor might provide a better alternative then a locked suitcase , that is <URL> .
Kangaroos are wild animals . While you will come across them if you are driving in rural areas , do not approach them . While most will simply run away , some may enter a more defensive posture especially if there are young ( joeys ) nearby . A kick from an adult can kill a human ( <URL> ) . Kangaroos can be mean vicious creatures . When I was growing up as a kid in Australia , we were cautioned away from getting anywhere near them . The best and safest way to get a selfie with a kangaroo that is n't a cardboard cutout is to go to a zoo that has a petting zoo component . Instead of kangaroos , they often pick the smaller/friendlier cousin , the wallaby ( <URL> ) . This is just one of many petting zoos that have wallabies : <URL>
To be somewhat of a nitpick , there are two types of bounces . The more common type is when a visitor arrives who does not need a visa ( e.g. , Canadian , American ) or already holds a visa . I wrote a very detailed description of this in an article which starts with ... Sometimes people arrive in the UK and do not perform well in their landing interview ; some people lie , some plan to abuse the system , others exhibit strange behaviour , some appear to be incoherent . And others do not have a convincing reason to be in the UK , for example some people visit too often and other people appear to be a potential overstayer . A percentage of these visitors get ' bounced ' ( i.e. , turned around , denied entry , refused entry , sent home ) . This most frequently happens to Americans , Canadians , Austrailians , and New Zealanders . Even though these nationalities do not generally require visitor visas in advance , they are required to have a convincing reason to visit the UK and to exhibit that they are not a potential overstayer . What happens when somebody gets bounced ? Clearly many situations are too hopelessly complex to even attempt explanation in an article like this ; but we can take a look at some common features . Things begin with the Immigration Officer ( IO ) , who may have observed the person acting strangely ( or stressed ) in the queue , or who may not be satisifed with the response to one of his questions ( for example lying or intending to break our laws ) ; or worse , the person is flagged up on the computer . At that point the IO will remove the person from the rest of the traffic so that other travellers can be processed . This is called ' being detained ' . The first level of detention is a segregated area in the arrivals hall . The person detained may be escorted to the luggage collection area to collect their luggage and to consign this to UKBA for inspection . The complete article is here ... <URL> The other type of bounce is when someone is transiting the UK and does not have the requisite DATV visa or fails to qualify for the concession . These are not very common because the Immigration Act 2000 stipulates fines for the airline and as a result the airlines will apply lots of diligence before take off . In the usual case , the person will not be allowed to board the flight . The Office of National Statistics produces a report that indicates the OVERALL chance of a bounce is 1 in 3,000 , and I think the bulk of those are of the first kind . If you subscribe to their publications you will get an email notification when new statistics are available . Our laws mandate that the decision to admit or bounce lies solely upon the Immigration Officer who conducts the landing interview with the agreement of the duty CIO . I have never seen a case where a CIO has overruled an IO 's decision , but the law allows for it to happen . You would be surprised at how many are American women coming over to see a guy they met on the net . It 's fine to do that , but incredibly they lie about it and get caught in a lie . If an IO catches you in a lie , you are out of here . So what goes through an IO 's mind when they smell a bounce ? What are they thinking ? What signs are they looking for ? Fortunately , the Home Office Research Unit has published two studies on exactly this topic . Do n't ask me for the links because I make hard copies and save them on my hard drive , and the Home Office site gets reorganized at the drop of a hat anyway . Any link I posted would be rotted following the next election . Basically the IO will suspect single women travelling alone , young men with lots of technical gear , people with lots of cash , people presenting brand new passports who have recently renewed their passport ( you 'll understand why ) , people with no peripatetic history , people who are stressed or acting nervous , and the list goes on . Business men and women , for example , get bounced frequently because they do not have a work permit . Once you get bounced , you 'll have your biometrics on file plus your passport will be recorded ( changing passports does not help ) . And whether you like it or not , your biometrics will be sent to the USA . So to answer the question : Yes , reports have been published on how the IO reaches a decision ; and yes , statistics are available . Posting their links in SO invites quick rot . Having said that , you can use this link to get started . <URL>
what is expected of me while I stay there If someone carries your luggage to your room , they expect a tip ( $ 1 to $ 2 per bag ) . It 's also customary to leave a tip for the maid ( $ 1 to $ 3 per day ) . Otherwise , it 's really the other way round : it 's the job of the hotel staff to meet your expectations ( within reasonable bounds ) - you 're paying , after all . what is provided for me and what I should bring The <URL> can give you some idea of what you can expect . The hotel will provide towels , and you can get new ones every day ( nowadays there 's usually a sign that says to leave the towels on the floor if you want new ones ) . Bedsheets will be changed at least once per week , and the room cleaned daily . They usually also provide small packages of things like toothpaste and shampoo , but not necessarily enough for a stay longer than a few days . There may be a clothes cleaning service , but you 'll have to ask for it . Many ( but not all ) hotels have hair driers in every bathroom . You should bring any other appliances you need . Nowadays , many hotels have some sort of internet connection in the rooms , but it may or may not be free . If you have booked the room with breakfast included it will be served in a dining room in a fixed time frame ( e.g. between 7AM and 10AM ) . is there any gotcha that I should keep on the look out for ? There is a " check-in time " ( typically late afternoon ) - you probably can not get into your room before that time when you arrive , as it may still be need to cleaned up after the previous guest . Correspondingly , on the day you leave you have to vacate the room and " check out " at the reception before a certain time ( usually 10AM or 11AM ) - if you do n't , you may have to pay for an extra day . If you arrive before the check-in time or leave significantly after check-out time , most hotels offer to store your luggage for you while you spend the time somewhere else ( at no extra cost ) . Many hotels have a " minibar " in the rooms , which is a small fridge containing various beverages . These usually cost extra ( prices are listed on the fridge door or a leaflet somewhere ) and may be very expensive . But this seems to have gone out of fashion and I 've seen a lot of empty minibars ( which can be useful to keep your own stuff in ) . The maid will come into your room every day to clean up - usually around noon . You can hang a sign on the door handle if you 're in the room and do n't want to be disturbed , and they 'll come back some other time . Theoretically they could steal things from you ; this is very rare , but many hotels have installed a small safe in every room to deposit exceptionally valuable items .
It 's very easy , and a quick google search for ' antipode ' and ' map ' will find sites that find it for you . For example , <URL> either detects your location , or you can enter one , and it 'll show you on a zoomable map where your antipodal destination is . Unfortunately as shown by <URL> , only about <URL> , and only a tiny fraction of Brazil is antipodal to Japan ( in fact , to the islands of Okinawa and Amami ) . A rather larger amount of Brazil ( but still a small fraction of the country as a whole ) is antipodal to the Philippines and Indonesia , along with Brunei , parts of Malaysia and the South Korean island of Jeju . Without knowing your exact location I ca n't be sure where it ends up . I 'll leave that last step up to you ! Another <URL> site shows it quite nicely side by side . I can click and zoom in on New Zealand and the other window zooms in at the same time to show me northern Spain - the antipode .
I never used a bidet , but in my travels I always have a pack of wet tissues with me . There is a lot of choice around - from individually packed to large , 50 + pieces packs , antibacterial , scented , for make-up removal , etc. . You can choose between hand wipes , facial wipes or even baby wipes . There are a couple of good things about them . First of all , they are versatile - you can use them as a bidet substitute but also to cleanse your hands before/after food , to refresh your face and in general , to clean your skin if it gets dirty . They are much lighter than a bottle of water so can be easily carried around in a pocket or a small bag . In places where water is scarce it seems like a waste to have a dedicated water for the ' bidet business ' . Wet wipes are also easy to share between fellow travellers . And finally , if you are travelling by plane only with the hand luggage , you can take your wet wipes on board ( at least according to what <URL> . )
It 's not much of a " quarter " but <URL> suggests there 's a few stores between the 5th and 11th wards , with more a little bit scattered around . <URL> listing suggests there 's a few to be found in a block between 50th and 50th lower street , around Sule Pagoda , as far west as Bo Ywe Road . Very few of these actually have websites ( though some list a phone number ) , and a lot of them seem catered to cellphone accessories , but that should hopefully give you a place to start and narrow it down .
end question
start question
Is 50 minutes of transit time ample in Amsterdam airport ?
50 minutes is doable , especially since airlines tend to arrive ahead of time these days . In case you miss your connecting flight it is good to know your <URL> . Since , KLM and delta are in the same alliance , I woud n't worry . If you miss your connecting flight , you will most probably get the next flight without additional costs .
my name is Karyne . I am French , 40 years old and started fulltiming 8 years ago in my RV . I have been fulltiming mainly in South Spain , South Portugal and some parts of France , and I 'd like to share my experience and observation with you . First of all , to avoid confusion : we call European recreational vehicles " motorhomes " , and US ones " RVs " . Most Fulltimers in Europe chose to live onboard RVs for the obvious reasons that they are made for proper living onboard in all comfort , when motorhomes are mostly made for Partimers . We call Fulltimers people who live 100 % of the time in their RV or motorhome . Anybody staying part of the year in a house are Partimers . Amongst all RV and motorhome users in Europe , I 'd say that there might be around 5 % Fulltimers . Fulltimers in Europe are probably around 95 % retired people above 60 years old . There are very few mid-age Fulltimers . The Fulltimer community , in particular for mid-age people is not organised at all like in the US where there are special web-sites for temporary jobs or jobs-on-the-go dedicated to RVers , so it is n't easy to find a way to earn a living . The elder community however is better organised . perhaps because they move less than us and tend to go from point A ( North country ) for 4 month in same campsite to point B ( South country ) for the rest of the year . They tend to Jamboree and have plenty of time to spare and meet friends . Many of us mid-age RVers often need to " square-wheel " for a while , parked in a place where there is work ( my case for the moment ) , but we never ever leave our trucks !!! It 's in you or not ... Well hope this might have helped a bit . Plenty of hellos from Southern Spain to all Fulltimers ... xxx Karyne Hi guys , Karyne again . I have red some of the posts , and I think there might be a big confusion for all of you between Partimers and Fulltimers . Please read above for details . However , as far as the Partimer market is concerned , it is surely huge and predominant . I also forgot to mention that the worse the economical crisis gets , the more people are looking towards alternative ways of leaving and moving to other countries . So yes surely campsites are full of square-wheelers all over the place . A monthly campsite 's pitch fee is not cheap , very similar to a small apartment 's rental ( 300 $ to 400 $ ) , and to get best rates we always ask for a special long term stay , usually 3 month , but once you add all extra costs ( electricity , water , taxes etc ) , campsites are cheaper , kids can still play in a safe garden , there is no maintenance at all to do apart from your own rig , etc etc. . Karyne ... AGAIN ... lol I was contacted in 2007 by Jim Twamley , Professor of RVing , in order to write an article for www.rvtravel.com about fulltiming in Europe . You can read it here : <URL> Of course since then loads of things have changed in my life , including husband , lol , I started to travel alone , following friends or my parents who are also fulltimers nowdays , but I 'm still in the same RV ... Concerning fulltimer cost of living , of course it all depends from how many people are travelling , if there are any pets , pulling a trailer or A-frame for a car ... it all adds up . I have personally noticed that campsites stay or wild camping often evens out . Simple , if you wild camp you do n't spend on your pitch but you do on gas ( there are extremely few wild camp places where you can stay longer than a few nights ) . Of course the longer you can stay the more you are saving . The rest stays the same ... food etc. . We take the principle of 800 $ to 1.000 $ a month for a couple , assuming you stay in a campsite at least 3 month at a time to get up to 50 % discount , or keep on moving from wild camp to wild camp . Feel free to contact me by mail on barb.fulltimer@hotmail.com or look for my name Karyne Fouillet on FaceBook . If I can be of any help , it 'll be a pleasure . xxx
70 Euro 's per day is indeed ridiculous . It is however not uncommon to demand a large deposit . So could it be that the 70 euro is to cover the deposit ? It will be difficult to find a sport bike . The surroundings of Amsterdam are really flat , so you only would need a sport bike if you go for speed . When renting a bike , you could ask a city bike with gears . It is not uncommon for city bikes in the Netherlands to have at least 3 gears . A good renting spot for bicycles are the train stations of the Dutch rail ways . Their <URL> is Dutch only which shows that they typically do n't aim for a audience of tourists . Which does n't mean that you ca n't rent a bike there as a tourist . Their prices are however quite affordable : Om een fiets te huren , heeft u een geldig legitimatiebewijs nodig . U betaalt een borg variërend van $ 50 , - ( voor de eenvoudigste fiets ) tot $ 145 , - ( voor een tandem ) . Een merkfiets zonder versnellingen met terugtraprem kost circa $ 7,50 tot $ 15 , - per dag . Dit bedrag is inclusief verzekering tegen diefstal . Vaak is het ook mogelijk om een toerfiets met versnellingen , een tandemfiets of een elektrische fiets te huren . Which translates to : You 'll need formal identification to rent a bike . A deposit ranging from 50 ( for the simplest bike , to 145 ( for a tandem ) is required . A bike from a known brand without gear costs between 7,50 and 15,00 . This includes theft insurance . It is also possible to rent a tourbike with gear , a tandem of an electric bicycle . There are a few train stations in Amsterdam , which offer rental bikes . Amsterdam Central is included , however I would advice to go to a less central station ( e.g. Amsterdam Amstel ) , to avoid the crowds a bit . The bicycles from the train stations are quite decent . In know people who traveled > 200 km in one day on such a rental .
In the case of Amsterdam , what you 're looking for are ( ex - ) squats . Ex - , because squatting in Amsterdam became illegal in late 2010 . <URL> has some back-story for that . One of the most famous ones is <URL> , which is right in the <URL> . You can find these kind of places in the Canal Belt , Old Center , but especially in <URL> , which also has quite a few hip restaurants etc. . Also , you have to realize that Amsterdam is very small , so staying anywhere in the center you 're in walking distance of all these neighborhoods .
You do n't indicate what time of day you will arrive and depart , but Incheon Airport offers a series of <URL> of varying lengths and departing at various times of the day . The shorter tours are within the city of Incheon , which is a major city in its own right , whereas the 5-hour tours are of sights and sites in Seoul . While such bus tours are by nature superficial , they will give you a small taste of Korea beyond the airport spa . Because no planning effort is involved beyond purchasing the ticket ( and because they are accustomed to dealing with rushed travelers ) , they are far less stressful than trying to tour an unfamiliar city independently in just an hour or two . 1-hour <URL> in Incheon ; OR <URL> and " motor boat training center " 2-hour Over the <URL> to <URL> or <URL> and <URL> 3-hour <URL> and the Old Incheon Prefecture Government Building 3 1/2 - hour Incheon Bridge to <URL> , the port , and <URL> 5-hour <URL> in Seoul , <URL> , <URL> culture and crafts shopping district , <URL> ; OR <URL> gate and market district and <URL>
Provided you would like to go to the Hardrock Cafe in Amsterdam : take the train from Schiphol Airport to Amsterdam Central station ( 15 minutes or so ; you can plan details on <URL> ) . From Amsterdam Central Station take a tram number 1 , 2 or 5 and get out on <URL> ( again , some 15 minutes ) . <URL> ( 5 minutes or less )
It has always been illegal and people have been arrested for smoking it in the open . I always love the faces of the tourists being arrested at Schiphol airport or in front of the Central station in Amsterdam for smoking weed . It is a global misconception that in Amsterdam it is as free as smoking cigarettes on the street . The principle has always been , what is called " Gedogen " , which means that it is tolerated as long as you do n't use it in the open and do n't create annoyances . It is the Dutch way of dealing with social problems . It is similar to the so-called " afwerkplekken " for street prostitution . These are designated area 's where street prostitution is tolerated . When ever there is a social problem that is hard to eradicate , the Dutch approach is encapsulate it in known zones , relieving other area 's from problems related to that social problem . In the seventies the Dutch government introduced so called " coffeeshops " , which are designated establishments where cannabis use is tolerated . Again recognize the difference between tolerated and allowed . What has changed recently is the legal status for these coffeeshops . They are now only allowed as a member-only organization for local residents . To get access to a coffeeshop you need to register as a member providing proof you live in the same city . The change of this regulation was guided by the pressure from Belgium and Germany . Border cities like Maastricht , Roosendaal , Terneuzen were like magnets to weed smokers from France , Belgium and Germany , causing problems in those cities and the surrounding countries . This was the reason behind introducing the member-only requirement for coffeeshops . This is also why the weed-pass as it is informally called was first introduced in the border regions and later imposed on other cities like Amsterdam . As Mark already said , again some cities like Amsterdam chose not to spent resources on enforcing this . Border cities did introduce the legislation to require the member-only status of coffeeshops , with the effect that most coffeeshops did close .
That is easy : <URL> If you like garlic you might also consider <URL> . The options regarding steak are not huge , but you 'll never forget the experience
The purpose of a transit visa is ... to transit through a country on the way to another destination . In some cases , a transit visa is simply a regular visa with a different name based on the purpose of the journey . When there is a distinction between a transit visa and a regular visitor 's visa , there might be several differences : Nationals of some countries might face extra scrutiny/restrictions ( e.g. in the Schengen area most people can transit through an airport without a visa but some do need one even in this case ) . The transit visa is a way to implement such a policy . Holders of transit visas might be unable to leave the airport and actually enter the country . The transit visa is a way to enforce this restriction ( e.g. " airport transit visa " in the Schengen area ) . A transit visa might be cheaper than a regular visitor 's visa ( e.g. " Direct airside transit visa " in the UK , transit visas are even completely free of charge in Canada ) , possibly to make transiting through the country more attractive and increase the local airports/airlines ' turnover or in acknowledgment of the fact that such a visa is generally less useful . In theory , I guess that someone landing without a transit visa where required could be refused entry and forced to return to their point of origin , be detained until they get their connecting flight or , if none of this is possible for one reason or another , face deportation . However , the rules are designed to make sure that it does n't happen in the first place . Airlines are bound by international agreements to take back people who are refused entry and might face additional fines when it happens , depending on local law . This provides them with strong incentives to check if passengers fulfill any relevant visa obligation before boarding . Note that in many cases , someone making it to a state 's territory has the right to apply for asylum , even if they got there illegally or do n't have a visa to enter the country . They could be detained and ultimately deported if their application is unsuccessful but ( in principle ) not immediately returned to their point of origin . Requiring transit visas for citizens of high-risk countries is one way potential destination countries make sure asylum seekers do n't even get that far and limit the number of requests .
Foreigners in transit in China with booked itineraries departing within 24 hours and not wishing to leave the transit area of the airport do not need a visa , according to <URL> : Visa Exemption 2 . For Direct Transit No visa is required for foreigners who hold tickets to the final destination and have booked seats on international airlines , ships , trains transiting directly through China , and will stay for less than 24 hours and do not leave the specified transit area . Foreigners are able to apply for a Temporary Entry Permit to leave the port for city sightseeing or going to a dock or a railway station . Those who transfer in two cities of China within 24 hours are also available to enjoy this policy . For instance , if one 's trip is Los Angeles -- Beijing -- Kunming -- Chiengmai and the time in China is less than 24 hours , the passenger can enjoy the direct transit . This is also confirmed by <URL> : Visas are not required of aliens ( includes Indonesian ) , who hold final destination tickets and have booked seats on international airliners flying directly through China , and will stay in a transit city for less than 24 hours without leaving the airport .
No , you will not need to pay any additional fees . Any applicable airport tax will be included in your ticket and is irrelevant to whether you spend the entire 6 hours inside Schiphol 's security zone or if you use some of it to venture outside the airport . It is entirely at your discretion how you spend that time . Just make sure you are back in time to pass through security in time to catch your flight .
By default , if you do n't see a ' no dog ' sticker , your dog will be allowed into restaurants . Dogs are not allowed in any of the major museums or churches but are allowed pretty much everywhere else . ( <URL> ) . From same source : Dogs of any size are allowed on the public transportation system including trams , metro , busses and trains . Dogs are allowed for free on all types of transportation except for trains which charge a 3 euro dog day ticket fee . You may also be interested in : <URL> .
If you bought it on one ticket then yes , it is sufficient time or it would not have been sold to you ( alright perhaps I am an optimist ! ) . Your luggage will be through-checked to CDG , if on one ticket . ( If it is on two tickets it should still be possible to arrange for it to be through-checked and to pick up your GRU-CDG boarding pass at FOR . However I would not advise buying your tickets this way . ) You have n't said which airport it is ( São Paulo has two ) , but since you are flying to Paris on TAM I conclude it is Guarulhos ( GRU ) . The minimum connect time at GRU for domestic to international ( D/I ) is 1 hour : ( There are some exceptions , but your flights are not in the list . ) There is a terminal change going from terminal 2 to terminal 3 . Unfortunately , I think you will have to re-clear security at terminal 3 -- perhaps someone can confirm this ?
Strange choice of transit but not mine . There is no visa required for transit as long as do n't leave the terminal . All international departures happen in terminal D and the visa information from <URL> is as follows : China - Destination Passport Passport required . Document validity rules : Passports and other documents accepted for entry must be valid on arrival . Type : Ok China - Destination Visa Additional information : Valid visas or resident permits in expired passports are accepted if holding valid passport of the same nationality . Type : Notice China - Destination Health This information is for guide purposes only . Other health organisations may recommend alternative precautions . Passengers arriving within 6 days after leaving or transiting countries with risk of yellow fever transmission and not holding a yellow fever vaccination certificate are subject to vaccination upon arrival . At the airport of Dalian ( DLC ) passenger will be kept in quarantine for 10 days or deported . Exempt from Yellow Fever vaccination : Children under 9 months of age . Recommended Health and Vaccination precautions : Malaria prophylaxis . Malaria risk , including P. falciparum , exists in Yunnan and Hainan . P. falciparum resistance to chloroquine and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine reported . Limited risk of P. vivax malaria exists in southern and some central provinces . There is no malaria risk in the urban areas . Recommended prevention in risk areas : B ; in Hainan and Yunnan : C . In Timatic , the recommended type of prevention is referred to as : - Type A ( very limited risk of malaria transmission ) - Mosquito bite prevention only . - Type B ( risk of P. vivax malaria only ) - Mosquito bite prevention plus chloroquine chemoprophylaxis . - Type C ( risk of P. falciparum malaria with chloroquine and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine resistance ) - Mosquito bite prevention plus atovaquone-proguanil or doxycyline or mefloquine chemoprophylaxis . - Type D ( risk of P. falciparum malaria plus reported multi-drug resistance ) - Mosquito bite prevention plus plus atovaquone-proguanil or doxycyline or mefloquine chemoprophylaxis , depending on local drug restistance . Chemoprophylaxis should be started preferably one week before departure and no later than the first day of exposure ; it must be taken with unfailing regularity and continued for 4 weeks after the last exposure . No prophylactic regimen is 100 % protective against infection , but even if it fails to prevent the disease it may , nevertheless , render the infection milder and less life threatening . Type : Notice Ukraine - Transit Visa Visa required . Transiting without a visa is possible for : Holders of onward tickets for a max . transit time of 24 hours through Kiev Boryspil ( KBP ) . Type : Ok Ukraine - Transit Health This information is for guide purposes only . Other health organisations may recommend alternative precautions . Vaccinations not required .
I give this 50/50 chance at best , especially this time of year . 40 minutes is tight even in the best of circumstances but Newark has lots of traffic , lots of delays and is prone to weather issues ( as is Boston for that matter ) . The United terminals are huge , so it can easily be a 10 minute hike between gates . I never had to go through security while connecting , so I doubt that 'll be an issue . Get the United app installed on your phone : that 's the quickest way of checking what gate your connection is departing and on whether it 's on time or not . You can do this while your still taxiing after landing . If it 's super tight you can sometimes beg the other passengers or the flight attendants to let you get off first . If your stuck in the back of the plane , that 's going to be a problem . I would call United ask for a change , perhaps an earlier flight out of Boston . 40 minutes in a massive airport like EWR seems unreasonable . And do n't check any bags !
From at least <URL> : Whether clocks stay set on " ship " time or are changed as the vessel moves through time zones depends on the ship , the itinerary , and the time of year so it 'll depend on the company you use , and the zone of the ship and where it travels during the tour . Most ships adhere to the time zone they are in and clocks are set forward or back to adhere to local time . Passengers are also advised to change their watches to the ' correct ' time -- there is usually a reminder card on your pillow before you go to bed . However , not all ships do that , particularly in the Caribbean ! Some ships stay on " ship " time , which can be different from " island " time . So the best authority is the ship itself , and they 'll know from experience that people get it wrong , and will do their best to ensure you do n't miss the boat . From friends who have travelled on a cruise ship in the Mediterranean , breakfast and lunch could be literally ' whenever we wanted ' - there was often a buffet . <URL> has seating times for dinner that you can request , and for breakfast , say , on their ship <URL> : Breakfast times vary daily , so please check the Personal Navigator -- the Disney Cruise Line daily newsletter detailing all there is to see and do -- for specific dates and times while onboard . So yes , times can change , and meal times can change accordingly as well , so in the end you 'll have to check with your operator and whether they have any special time-operations on the ship you 're travelling on .
From the SBB Web site it seems that all you will need is your daughter 's passport or other official ID ( to prove her date of birth ) and the fee . You 'll need to give an address as well , which will be printed or written on the travelcard ; it 's not clear whether this needs to be an address in Switzerland or your own home address abroad . You 'll get two travelcards , one for each parent . A photo is not needed . ( From <URL> [ PDF , German ] ) As Roflcopter says , Zurich airport railway station can be busy and it can be quiet . If the ticket counters are busy you could try the SBB travel agency next door . I 'd be surprised if issuing the ticket takes more than five minutes . But assuming you do n't live in Switzerland , you 'd probably be better off with <URL> tickets for yourself and the free Family Card which Max mentions for your daughter . Even if you 're not doing enough travelling for a " go-anywhere " Swiss Pass to be worthwhile , a Half Fare Card ( CHF 120 ) will more than pay for itself just with one return journey from the airport to Jungfraujoch ( CHF 340 full fare ) .
Generally , Austrian trains are quite punctual and on time . However , two minutes to change a train is really tight , and 4 minutes is n't really better . The train station in Schwarzach-St . Veit is quite small and this will enhance your chance that you will catch the train . On the other hand , the train station in Salzburg is quite big , so if you 're unlucky , there is a chance that you have to cross the whole train station to reach the appropriate track . When you check the connections at oebb.at , you can see , that this connection is proposed by ÖBB . This means , it is a guaranteed connection . And even , if you will miss your connection , there are plenty of other connections , and you would n't have to wait too long . So if I were in your situation , I would take this connection . But I would make sure to tell the train conductor that you have to catch the train in St.Veit . If your train is not really late , it might be possible that he can make sure that your connecting train waits for you . The same applies for your leg from St.Veit to Salzburg . ( Btw : It is not too bad to spend a night at the station in St. Veit as I experienced myself on my trip to Hungary some years ago :) )
There is no Terminal 2 . Terminals are assigned by airline , not by destination . There are divisions within each terminal for destination , but you start at the desk for your airline . Transat uses Terminal 3 . You can get this information for any airline from <URL> . If you are being driven to the airport by a paid professional ( taxi , shuttle bus etc ) , do n't tell them to take you to Terminal 3 . They might drop you at the wrong end or have to ask you more questions . Instead , tell them " Air Transat International " and they will take you to just the right place .
Compare the last page of the <URL> document to your map . It says : A new connection between the Domestic and International Terminals A new connection to help cyclists and pedestrians travel from Qantas Drive to the Domestic Terminal via Airport Drive . ( The orange dotted line shows the upgraded section ) . And your map is basically riding the orange dotted line .
end question
start question
How early should I get to the Oktoberfest tents to get in without a reservation ?
As a Munich native I simply ca n't just move on after seeing this question =) Please forgive me if I expand the scope of this question too much - but there is simply no way to explain the biggest Volksfest in one or two sentences . There are quite some different factors influencing your chance to get your Mass beer : Yourself If you 're travelling alone and therefore only need to seat a single person you might always get some free centimeters on a Bierbank as long as the tents are not closed . Couples and small groups ( maximum of four or five persons ) who are able to wait patiently and sober ( you wo n't get something to drink as long as you do n't have a place to sit down ) , while a drunken horde is dancing on the tables around them , have a realistic chance of capturing a fair amount of space . But be aware of the fact that you will need to defend the new gained territory against others ! Larger groups really need to develop negotiation skills ( bavarian tongue preferred ) or arrive much earlier . The party tent Beer tents are like clubs : divided in different areas . There are boxes mostly reserved by local companies to amuse their partners , clients and staff . You wo n't get into one if you are not invited ! The largest part of the tents is offered as first come , first served . These areas have the highest demand and get really crowded . Outside and around most of the tents you find so called beer gardens which mostly do not have a roof upon . These places are seeked for by families , elderlies and those who want to escape the enormous noise level inside the tents . Here is a constant coming and going . ( Good chances to catch some seats ) Food is also served out here . The day of choice The first weekend attracts the largest crowds . Simply do n't try to come here on the first day . Local youths and young adults get to the Wiesn on the first crack of dawn just to wait until noon when the first beer is served . Also simply avoid the last day of Oktoberfest : locals mourn about the ending of the fifth bavarian season . People are queuing up in front of the tent entrances already before 7 o'clock . Sounds like the second weekend is the perfect time spot to have some beers ? The one in the middle is traditionally called the Italian weekend . Around 200.000 Italians cross the alps to populate the tents - that could get a bit crowded . On Tuesdays all rides offer special prices for families and kids . That 's why the whole Theresienwiese is jam-packed with small humans from toddlers to teenagers . A good day to escape from the hordes to a tent for one or two ( or some more ) beers . The weather Sunny and hot weather makes the Wiesn show her beauty : Everybody heads to the Oktoberfest and needs to get some beer to cool down . Tents close at least an hour earlier than usually . Bad and rainy weather in the morning keeps the large crowds off . This gifts you some time : the tents close later . On weekdays the tents are sometimes not closed at all . A sudden rain break out in the afternoon drives everybody into the tents . Those might be closed within a few minutes . TL/DR Both statements quoted in the question describe the situation rather good . On weekdays arrive at least before three or four o'clock . On weekends try to get to the Festwiese around 8 o'clock . But as long as you stay friendly and ask kindly you always might find a little spot and you will make contact to great people from all over the world . So have fun , enjoy our beer and have a safe way home . See you in September ;)
In Borovets you 'll find it very easy to rent skis or other equipment you might need . Most if not all of the places that rent skis speak multiple languages and will be clearly marked around the resort . In case you find difficulties , just ask anyone around in English and they should be able to help you . Expect around 20 BGN/day for ski + boot + poles rental .
I am from Croatia and I find their site confusing as well . Maybe <URL> can help you . IMHO , on this link you have very clear timetable for selected date if that is what you want to find
1 to 3 months is not too long term to get travel insurance . Many insurance companies offer travel insurance and there are many options depending on what you want covered , how much you want to cover it for , and the duration of the coverage . Your travel agent might only suggest one company though which may not be the cheapest or best . They seem to have some kind of exclusive arrangements in my experience . One factor is the cost of healthcare in the destination countries . For travel to the United States the general recommendation is to get " unlimited " health coverage , which is of course the most expensive . For property theft and damage , Visa Card provides a kind of automatic travel insurance on items purchased with it . I do not know if Mastercard has the same policy . I did n't want to do too much searching so I stopped at the first one that seemed to answer your question . I have never used them so do not take this as a reccommendation . <URL> advertises " long term travel insurance " and says " Indefinitely extend your policy while you are away " . There are some restrictions which should n't affect you such as being younger than 66 years and being from one of the countries in their list ( I noticed Yemen was n't included ) . Also the price depends on whether or not you will enter these three countries : USA , Canda , and Japan
When Kosovo grants Turkish citizens visa-free entry for short stays , it is a sign that they do n't plan to subject most entering Turks to greater scrutiny than what can reasonably be done on the fly at the border checkpoint . This has to mean that they do n't routinely demand extensive paperwork such as letters of invitation -- if they did , there would be a visa requirement so they had a chance to get a good look at it in peace and quiet . So unless you arouse more suspicion in the border guard than most other Turks do , what you will need is just your passport , and convincing answers to standard questions : What is the purpose of your trip ? Where will you stay ? When and how will you leave Kosovo again ? Be prepared to document your accommodation bookings , tickets for the journey back home , and that you have enough money for your expenses during the trip . ( if you think you do look suspicious , arm yourself with as much documentation as you can lay your hand on , and hope for the best ) .
From Tokyo , you 've got two choices : <URL> from Shinjuku to Kawaguchiko , about 1:45 . JR Chuo line express train from Tokyo station or Shinjuku to Ōtsuki , transfer to Fuji Kyuko line to Kawaguchiko ( Japan Rail Pass [ JRP ] not valid ) , total travel time around 2:30 including transfer times . To Osaka , life gets more complicated : There is one ( 1 ) <URL> from Lake Kawaguchi to Osaka . It costs & yen ; 8,500 and takes ~ 10 hours depending on where in Osaka you get off . Fujikyu Bus runs <URL> to JR Shin-Fuji and Mishima stations , from which you can catch the Tokaido Shinkansen bullet train to Osaka . Both buses take ~ 2 hours , JRP not valid . Alternatively , backtrack to the Chuo line and either return nearly all the way to Tokyo to Yokohama to board the Shinkansen bullet train ( both the cheapest &amp; fastest option if you have a JRP ) , or head north towards Shiojiri and then loop back towards Osaka ( scenic but slow and connections infrequent ) . I rarely recommend rental cars in Japan , but the <URL> is one of the few areas on Honshu where it makes sense . Do n't rent from Tokyo , though , but at a suitable station along the way ; then if heading towards Osaka , you could drive around Fuji and drop off the car at ( eg . ) Shin-Fuji stn before continuing by Shinkansen .
I now called Ryanair 's telephone support for Germany ( +49 900 116 0500 , 0.62 EUR / minute ) . To find my booking , I had to specify my email address , my postal address , and flight data . Support said that , possibly due to a technical glitch , my email address is missing in their system . They then entered the email address , and soon after I received my booking confirmation . Fortunately , the call only took three minutes or so , and thus was not too expensive . I can live with that .
The journey is typically split in 2 . Cemoro Lawang to Probolinggo Probolinggo to Yogyakarta Cemoro Lawang to Probolinggo This journey takes around 1.5 h regardless of the type of transport you take . Renting a motorbike in Probolinggo is the nicest option , see <URL> Catch a ride in a shared taxi with some other tourists . Typically , you book a whole car with driver from Probolinggo to Cemoro Lawang &amp; back for around 650 ' 000 IDR . So a ride back should cost half of that , for a whole car , with a driver . Catch a ride on a motorbike taxi , locals in Cemoro Lawang will be happy to provide that . Be ready to negotiate . I would not pay more than 150 ' 000 IDR . Note : you may be stuck in Cemoro Lawang if you have n't already organized your journey , so unless you 're prepared to spend a bit of extra time waiting for a good deal , you could end up being in a weak position to negotiate , and pay quite a bit for your ride . Probolinggo to Yogyakarta train journey is around 8h if I remember well , and price for that is around 260 ' 000 IDR . You can have info on train timetables online , at train stations &amp; in local supermarkets ( indomart , alfamaret &amp; the likes ) , more on this on <URL> buses are leaving from Probolinggo bus terminal , be ready for an epic ride . Train vs buses/taxis in Indonesia After traveling for a month in Indonesia , I really appreciate the train a LOT . Train tickets are usually a bit more expensive , but the price difference is definitely worth it . Here is a non exhaustive list of advantages : fixed price ( no annoying &amp; time consuming negotiations ) buying a ticket is easy ( online , or local supermarket , or train station ) it 's more reliable than road transportation it 's faster than buses it 's comfortable ( even the economic class ) it 's clean there are plugs next to the seats ( charge your electronics ) it supports the country for improving its railway infrastructure the list goes on ...
The <URL> is located just north of Cape Canaveral , and is definitely worth a visit . The best time to visit is obviously when there is a launch occurring at Cape Canaveral . The Space Shuttles may no longer be flying , but there are still regular rocket launches ( the next occurring in just over a day ! ) , however it 's still worth going at any time . There are bus tours available - I ca n't recommend any as I 've never been on one although Google finds several including <URL> - but I would strongly recommend renting a car . Not only will this give you much more flexibility both around time and exactly where you go , but it 'll probably work out to be cheaper , especially if there 's more than one of you . Orlando is the biggest rental car market in the world , so it 's not hard to rent there ! There is no public transport to KSC .
Ryanair flies to Oslo and Haugesund . From there it is still 1500 , respectively 2000 kilometres to Tromsø . Berlin to Oslo is 2000 kilometres as the crow flies and 2700 over land . The fast option is flying . Just have a look at the usual search engines to learn about the options . The train is probably not much cheaper . Only much slower . You will have to travel through Hamburg , Copenhagen , Stockholm and Narvik . The last leg will be by bus . Train schedules can be found via the <URL> . However , as you have a railpass it becomes cheaper . You only have to pay the reservation fees for the X2000 in Sweden , the extras for the sleepers and the bus for the final leg . The whole trip will last about 40 hours . You may find some useful additional information on <URL> .
To be somewhat of a nitpick , there are two types of bounces . The more common type is when a visitor arrives who does not need a visa ( e.g. , Canadian , American ) or already holds a visa . I wrote a very detailed description of this in an article which starts with ... Sometimes people arrive in the UK and do not perform well in their landing interview ; some people lie , some plan to abuse the system , others exhibit strange behaviour , some appear to be incoherent . And others do not have a convincing reason to be in the UK , for example some people visit too often and other people appear to be a potential overstayer . A percentage of these visitors get ' bounced ' ( i.e. , turned around , denied entry , refused entry , sent home ) . This most frequently happens to Americans , Canadians , Austrailians , and New Zealanders . Even though these nationalities do not generally require visitor visas in advance , they are required to have a convincing reason to visit the UK and to exhibit that they are not a potential overstayer . What happens when somebody gets bounced ? Clearly many situations are too hopelessly complex to even attempt explanation in an article like this ; but we can take a look at some common features . Things begin with the Immigration Officer ( IO ) , who may have observed the person acting strangely ( or stressed ) in the queue , or who may not be satisifed with the response to one of his questions ( for example lying or intending to break our laws ) ; or worse , the person is flagged up on the computer . At that point the IO will remove the person from the rest of the traffic so that other travellers can be processed . This is called ' being detained ' . The first level of detention is a segregated area in the arrivals hall . The person detained may be escorted to the luggage collection area to collect their luggage and to consign this to UKBA for inspection . The complete article is here ... <URL> The other type of bounce is when someone is transiting the UK and does not have the requisite DATV visa or fails to qualify for the concession . These are not very common because the Immigration Act 2000 stipulates fines for the airline and as a result the airlines will apply lots of diligence before take off . In the usual case , the person will not be allowed to board the flight . The Office of National Statistics produces a report that indicates the OVERALL chance of a bounce is 1 in 3,000 , and I think the bulk of those are of the first kind . If you subscribe to their publications you will get an email notification when new statistics are available . Our laws mandate that the decision to admit or bounce lies solely upon the Immigration Officer who conducts the landing interview with the agreement of the duty CIO . I have never seen a case where a CIO has overruled an IO 's decision , but the law allows for it to happen . You would be surprised at how many are American women coming over to see a guy they met on the net . It 's fine to do that , but incredibly they lie about it and get caught in a lie . If an IO catches you in a lie , you are out of here . So what goes through an IO 's mind when they smell a bounce ? What are they thinking ? What signs are they looking for ? Fortunately , the Home Office Research Unit has published two studies on exactly this topic . Do n't ask me for the links because I make hard copies and save them on my hard drive , and the Home Office site gets reorganized at the drop of a hat anyway . Any link I posted would be rotted following the next election . Basically the IO will suspect single women travelling alone , young men with lots of technical gear , people with lots of cash , people presenting brand new passports who have recently renewed their passport ( you 'll understand why ) , people with no peripatetic history , people who are stressed or acting nervous , and the list goes on . Business men and women , for example , get bounced frequently because they do not have a work permit . Once you get bounced , you 'll have your biometrics on file plus your passport will be recorded ( changing passports does not help ) . And whether you like it or not , your biometrics will be sent to the USA . So to answer the question : Yes , reports have been published on how the IO reaches a decision ; and yes , statistics are available . Posting their links in SO invites quick rot . Having said that , you can use this link to get started . <URL>
There are trains to Schiphol every hour through the night , it 's the Heerlen end of the trip that make it difficult . So you could first go to Utrecht , sleep there and catch a train in the morning . Or go all the way to Leiden or Amsterdam by train on Saturday afternoon and take a train , bus or taxi on Sunday morning . Depending on the type of accommodation/level of comfort , it should be possible to find cheaper ho ( s ) tel or B&amp;B in those cities than at the airport . You would also have more time to sleep in the morning than if you were to take your own car or a long-distance train during the night .
Firstly - more for the benefit of anyone else in this situation in the future - Vietnam Airlines should rebook you for free if your flight is scheduled to depart earlier than planned : <URL> The same link also alludes to compensation for delays of over 4 hours ; for the benefit of anyone who speaks Vietnamese , it 's in regulation 14/2015/TT-BGTVT . In the case of a flight from Ho Chi Minh City or Hanoi to Siem Reap , that would be 25 USD as both flights are under 1000km . It 's not clear to me whether this would also apply to an early departure , but regardless it does only apply if you 're told about it less than 24 hours in advance . From personal experience , it 's not uncommon for Vietnamese carriers to cancel flights on their more frequent routes , and to do so relatively close to departure ( but more than 24 hours in advance ) . My educated assumption would be that if they can fit everyone onto three flights say , rather than four , they 'll gladly cancel the fourth .
Like any country , a visa is just an endorsement allowing you a specific period of time in a country based on your citizenship ( and other potential factors ) . However , once you 're at the border , the border agents / authorities can and will still make a further assessment . They might evaluate : your ability to support yourself while in the country your intent in the country ( you might be on a tourist visa , but they suspect you 're coming to work/do business ) your possessions ( eg if found with something illegal ) your history ( some countries wo n't let you in if your passport shows you 've been to countries that they 're not fans of ) as a result , yes , even if you have a legitimate visa , it 's still possible ( generally unlikely , but possible ) for you to be rejected at the border . For another question we have which is related to this , see <URL>
Although I 'd never presume to tell people what they should do , it would be quite common to tip for delivered housekeeping items such as a toothbrush , toothpaste , extra soap , extra pillow or whatever . The only thing I 'm ever likely to ask for is a toothbrush and/or toothpaste if I 've forgotten mine , and I often do n't have local currency on me . So , sometimes I have tipped and sometimes I have n't , but must say I feel a little guilty for the latter . For something like this , personally I 'd tip something like $ 2 unless I was asking for something extraordinary . What happens in some hotels is that they understand that this might be an issue and will bring up the items and hang over the door handle , knock and leave . If you rush after them you could tip them . Alternatively , ask at the front desk when you check in , especially for toothbrush and toothpaste kits . Often they have them behind the front desk and will give them to you without anyone feeling uncomforable giving/receiving a tip . If they have a shop in the hotel , it can be cheaper buying the item than getting it free .
The answer depends on 4 things : How you are getting to the airport What airline you 're flying with How frequent the flights on that route are How good your travel insurance is If you have great travel insurance , are on a route with one flight roughly ever hour , and are just hopping on the tube for 20 minutes to get there , then arriving just before you 're airline 's cut-off time is probably fine . If you 're taking two trains a bus on a 3 + hour journey , with travel insurance that is n't very good about missed departure compensation , to take a once-a-day flight , I 'd say aim to be there at least 3 hours before The close of baggage check and at-desk checkin times varies between airlines . BA , for example , have a <URL> , AA <URL> , so check with your specific airline to see what they require . Security queues can be bad at Heathrow , but not as bad as you find at some other airports world-wide . I often grumble about the Heathrow ones , but frankly I 've had worse at JFK and Seattle recently ! If you 're a frequent traveller who knows how to properly unpack your bag , take out liquids properly , already has liquids in a suitable bag etc , you should be fine within the minimum checkin times . For less frequent travellers , I 'd say 1 hour should be OK . The question then is more about possible delays getting to the airport . You need to leave enough time so that if you get delayed , you wo n't miss the flight . The 2-3 hour figure tends to be more about that , at least for Heathrow . Think about what could go wrong , what 's likely to go wrong , backup options , delay lengths etc. . Then , check your travel insurance , and see what they require . If your travel insurance wo n't cover missed departures due to delays getting to the airport , go for 3 hours minimum unless really close . If your travel insurance says you must have aimed for 2.5 hours before if they 'll cover it , obviously leave 2.5 hours ! Finally , there are shops airside in T3 , and some restaurants , so it 's not the end of the world if you get there with lots of time to spare . There are also some lounges you can pay to enter ( the No. 1 Traveller lounge in T3 is very nice , for example ) . If you have status or are travelling in a premium cabin , that could be a reason to get there extra early so you can enjoy the lounge more ! There is no universal answer
In theory , a mountain hut should never send away a tired tourist , especially if he does n't have a chance to reach another safe place before sundown . But in summer some of the huts are so full , that tourist need to sleep in dining room on the floor . In Slovakia , the huts range from small , with capacity of 20 people , to large with capacity of over 100 people . I suggest checking <URL> for information about the hut , find their phone number and under you can check their capacity . As for tents , most of Tatra area is a national park , and in such you are not allowed to camp or walk away from marked hiking tracks .
All ATMs in the Thai Bank Pool charge the 200 baht fee * , the two exceptions are Citibank ( only in Bangkok ) and AEON who charge 150 baht ( neither are technically banks which is why they are outside the pool ) . A traveler really needs to pull the max amount of baht allowed to keep the fee more minimal in terms of percentages . Most machines limit you to 20 notes , or 20,000 baht , though I heard a couple of bank chains now have new machines that will dispense 30 notes . You can go inside the banks and get a Visa or MasterCard cash advance . Some banks like Bangkok Bank do it without any fees , some others add a 2 or 3 % surcharge . But you need to use a Visa or MC debit card , not credit card , because credit cards charge you interest from the moment you get the advance , there is no 30 day grace period as you get on purchases . You also need to ask for an amount greater than the ATM allows or the teller will point you to the ATM machine outside . Travelers checks carry fees to exchange as well so are n't really any cheaper , plus only a few brands are accepted these days because too many counterfeits were circulating . Cash is , of course , the best in terms of no fees , but adds the worry for some folks about carrying that much cash around . With cash you need to make sure you have crisp new notes , banks are finicky about taking old tattered notes . You also need to consider that some currencies like the US Dollar , the rate you get depends on the denomination of the note , ie : you get a better exchange rate using $ 100 bills , than using $ 10 bills . * The ATM fee is scheduled to increase to 250 baht in August 2016
It 's a common problem I had in South America - I really wanted to improve my Spanish while travelling as it gives you a much better insight into your travels , and can talk to locals more . But so often they 'd just switch to English because they welcomed a chance to learn English themselves . You can either do the obvious ( ask them to speak French so you can learn ) or what I did occasionally - we 'd hold dual-language conversations - I 'd try speaking in Spanish and they 'd speak in English , as it gives you speaking practice - the hardest of the language skills , in my opinion . Alternatively , you can switch - you speak English , they speak Spanish , and you both get to practice listening skills in the language . Remember that travelling is a shared experience , they welcome visitors to their country ( well most of them do ) , and if you can both benefit from a conversation , everyone wins !
Normally you being there in plenty of time should ensure you are the first-came , and excess passengers would be put on after the rest of you . However , this is Greyhound we 're talking about , and to further complicate , this is Thanksgiving , the day of the year rules just do n't apply ;) According to <URL> : As the ticket policy suggests , Greyhound does not assign you a seat when you buy a ticket . If you show up at 8 AM for your 8 AM bus , the bus may be full . If you show up at 7:30 AM and the bus line already has 55 people in it , you may not get to ride that bus . If you 're riding for your first time , you will get a good seat on your bus if you arrive an hour ahead of time , and will probably catch it ( unless you need to check bags ) if you arrive fifteen minutes ahead of time . For the expert , how early you show up can be calculated by four variables : ( 1 ) Are you checking bags ? ( 2 ) Is your bus " originating ? " ( 3 ) Is your departure station popular ? ( 4 ) Is the route popular ? If you 're checking bags , you will have to wait in line . Depending on station , you may have to wait in the general ticketing line . At peak times , there can be 30 people in the general ticketing line -- all of which have urgent needs . You do n't have a choice about waiting , so budget 15-30 minutes . An " originating " bus means that your bus will be empty when boarding begins . If your bus is originating , you can show up later , because more seats will be available . If your departure station is popular ( i.e. a large city ) , more people will be in line , so budget another 15 minutes . If the route is popular ( and most are , especially on the weekends and at night ) , you may wish to budget another 15-30 minutes . Your best situation is an originating bus , leaving from small town X , at 10 AM . Your worst situation is a North Hollywood bus originating in Los Angeles , CA going to San Francisco at 10 PM on a Friday night . So given all that , I 'd try and get there as early as you possibly can . Because after all , this is Thanksgiving , and you 'll already be thankful you have a seat ;)
end question
start question
How can I calculate the sun rising time for a specific point on earth ?
Google Earth can do this . Click on the Sun-icon and draw the slider around until you see the sun rising : Example is from Google Earth 6.0.3.2197 . This is mainly suitable if you need only one place and time , not if you need full tables of many places and times . Also , of course , in mountainous areas the answer is extremely local , but no tool can give you an answer on a meter-precision , so unless you have a highly detailed digital elevation model , Google Earth is probably the most accurate you can get . Otherwise , you might want to ask over at <URL> .
From at least <URL> : Whether clocks stay set on " ship " time or are changed as the vessel moves through time zones depends on the ship , the itinerary , and the time of year so it 'll depend on the company you use , and the zone of the ship and where it travels during the tour . Most ships adhere to the time zone they are in and clocks are set forward or back to adhere to local time . Passengers are also advised to change their watches to the ' correct ' time -- there is usually a reminder card on your pillow before you go to bed . However , not all ships do that , particularly in the Caribbean ! Some ships stay on " ship " time , which can be different from " island " time . So the best authority is the ship itself , and they 'll know from experience that people get it wrong , and will do their best to ensure you do n't miss the boat . From friends who have travelled on a cruise ship in the Mediterranean , breakfast and lunch could be literally ' whenever we wanted ' - there was often a buffet . <URL> has seating times for dinner that you can request , and for breakfast , say , on their ship <URL> : Breakfast times vary daily , so please check the Personal Navigator -- the Disney Cruise Line daily newsletter detailing all there is to see and do -- for specific dates and times while onboard . So yes , times can change , and meal times can change accordingly as well , so in the end you 'll have to check with your operator and whether they have any special time-operations on the ship you 're travelling on .
The exact limitations of the eVisitor ( subclass 651 ) visa are listed in the " <URL> " act : 651.611 Conditions 8115 , 8201 , 8527 and 8528 must be imposed . The description of these conditions is spelled out in the <URL> section : 8115 The holder must not work in Australia other than by engaging in a business visitor activity . 8201 ( 1 ) While in Australia , the holder must not engage , for more than 3 months , in any studies or training . 8527 The holder must be free from tuberculosis at the time of travel to , and entry into , Australia . 8528 The holder must not have one or more criminal convictions , for which the sentence or sentences ( whether served or not ) are for a total period of 12 months duration or more , at the time of travel to , and entry into , Australia . Therefore you are free to study in Australia under the eVisitor visa , as long as you do n't do it for more than 3 months .
Google Earth can do this . Click on the Sun-icon and draw the slider around until you see the sun rising : Example is from Google Earth 6.0.3.2197 . This is mainly suitable if you need only one place and time , not if you need full tables of many places and times . Also , of course , in mountainous areas the answer is extremely local , but no tool can give you an answer on a meter-precision , so unless you have a highly detailed digital elevation model , Google Earth is probably the most accurate you can get . Otherwise , you might want to ask over at <URL> .
If the liquid is red , it 's mostly likely alcohol ( ethanol ) , not mercury ( so less of an issue - even if it broke it would be no worse than spilling a few drops of wine ) . Even small mercury thermometers are <URL> , as Johnny says : By the TSA and some other authorities ( but Cathay Pacific , for example , does not allow them ) . So I think it should be okay , but you never know - you might lose it if some overzealous agent deems it a danger .
There seems to be no limit as such . However if you carry more than 10 ' 000 $ , you <URL> depending on the country . For example in <URL> , you are to declare it when orally asked to do so . For the <URL> on the other hand , there seems to be no need to do so . So if you consider taking more than 10 ' 000 $ , you should check the rules for the specific country you are flying to .
The Minimum Connection Time between flights landing in Terminal 2 ( Lufthansa ) and flights departing from Terminal 1 ( Vueling ) is 45 minutes . Thus technically this is a valid connection . However valid connection does not mean that you will make your flight - it just means that the airlines will let you book such a connection when booked on the same ticket . If you are planning to book these two flights on the same ticket , then it 's potentially worth the risk . If you miss the outbound flight then it will be up to the airlines ( most likely Lufthansa ) to get you to your destination , either by moving you to a later Vueling flight , or more likely by putting you on one of their own flights to your destination . However , if you are considering booking these flights on separate tickets then your chances of something going wrong are very high . One of the reasons that MUC has such a low Minimum Connection Time is that they will make arrangements for getting people directly from inbound gate to outbound gate - especially in cases of delayed inbound flights ( eg , using vehicles that drive across the airport itself ) . If you are on multiple tickets then they will not know that you are connecting , and thus will not make any such arrangements for you . On separate tickets it is still possible that you will make your connecting flight , but personally I would never consider such a short connection . Your odds of missing the flight are too high , and if you do miss it you 'll likely have to purchase a new ticket to get yourself to your destination .
<URL> does that . When you do the search , one of the options is to subscribe for updates for the route and dates you 've selected , and they 'll email you when the prices change .
<URL> Just choose the Whole Month as departure and arrival date . You will be presented with a graphic in which you can pick the departure date , the arrival calendar will update accordingly .
Weather Underground has a nice <URL> feature for exactly this use-case . Tell it where you 're going and when and it will show you the average temperature and range for the last 20 years , how many days it rained , and other such historical weather data . You can play with the dates and see how much the results vary .
Yes , you probably should get insurance . <URL> : While medical care in Japan is good , English-speaking physicians and medical facilities that cater to U.S. citizens ' expectations are expensive and not widespread . Japan has a national health insurance system which is available only to those foreigners with long-term visas for Japan . ... Medical caregivers in Japan require payment in full at the time of treatment or concrete proof of ability to pay before they will treat a foreigner who is not a member of the national health insurance plan . So basically , if you 're hit by a bus or have a heart attack or something , you 're going to be stuck with a large bill and could potentially even be denied care . Japanese hospitals tend to be a bit overloaded , every now and then a case of somebody dying after being denied entry to multiple hospitals makes the news , and not having insurance is certainly not going to help . That said , simple doctor 's consultations and the like are quite inexpensive in Japan even if you foot the bill yourself . So I 'd look specifically for basic/catastrophic travel insurance that will cover you in cases of dire need , but has a high deductible/does not cover minor mishaps and thus has a lower premium .
I think the only purpose to read the dating tips is to know , what themes should be avoided , and what themes or phrases can be rude for your opponent . But if you think this ca n't help you - you should not read the tips .
Google maps seems to do the trick . You first select your Route description ( e.g. <URL> ) . Once you have your route , type shell in the upper search field and Google will show you Shell in the <URL> of your route . EDIT : The second link does n't show both the route and shell stations integrated , but this is a screendump on how the result would look
Try these in search engine in google : inurl : tripadvisor.com " fireplace " " central europe " " hotel " inurl : booking.com " fireplace " " central europe " " hotel " Add more keywords to place a specific country , etc. .
You do not need to pass through emigration when leaving the US . Unlike in most countries , US airports do not have dedicated international areas . The airline staff will check your passport and collect any documents you are required to hand in when you leave the country . Thus , this will not affect your connection in MSP . If the itinerary is being offered as a single ticket , the airline clearly believes that most passengers will be able to make that connection . This seems quite feasible if both flights are from the same terminal at MSP ( very probable if it is the same airline ) . You 'll probably be checked into both flights at LAX and only have to get between gates at MSP . This can be accomplished <URL> within the same terminal ( less if you are really in a hurry ! ) . If you need to <URL> ( <URL> ) , this becomes much trickier . You 'll need to take a train ( runs every 10 minutes ) and than you will need to go through security again at the other end . I suspect that you will not need to change terminals . Note however , that if there is any delay in the inbound flight , even if you are able to race to the departure gate , the odds of your checked-in luggage making the transfer is not good . Also , keep in mind that any non-trivial delay will cause you to miss your connection . They will try rerouting you if you miss your connection because of a delay in the first flight . However , there is no way of knowing how long or convoluted that rerouting will be . You may easily lose a whole day . Consider how important not being delayed is to you . If it is critical , this may not be a chance you 're willing to take .
Have you tried <URL> . <URL> but not even in the range of <URL> or <URL> . You can also see the virtual tour of the tower and the views on their website as well . <URL> though pretty gruesome .
Your best bet is to sign up to a crew-finding website like <URL> . A friend who cycled from London to New Zealand did this for the ocean parts - hung out in port and used the site . What was observed is that there are different levels of opportunities . Some berths require that you have licenses or sailing experience , or a particular skill ( eg cooking ) , while others will take anyone . The alternative , if you have the time ( like she did ) is to hang out by the docks and ask people - even if they are n't taking anyone , they may have heard of someone who is . Often it 's just spur of the moment opportunity .
Yes ! Google maps recently added the possibility of doing exactly this ! I noticed it for the first time today . When you query the route for a specific destination a new option shows up above the possible routes which allows you to choose to depart at a particular time or arrive at a particular time . In the later case it suggests the time that you should leave . The length of the drive is given as a range of times which can , admittedly , be pretty broad . I have <URL> , but it has not received an answer as of yet .
Short answer : No , you will not get such a discount . Longer answer : For any significantly-sized airliner , the commodity they have to sell you is floor space in the cabin , not weight . If you 're occupying one seat of the same size , you 're costing the airline almost exactly the same as someone who weighs twice what you do . Let 's consider some numbers : Assumed average weight of a passenger : 150 lb ( 68 kg ) . <URL> : 274,500 lb ( 124,500 kg ) . Weight of the <URL> : 150 x 293 = 43,950 lb ( 19,940 kg ) . Example fuel load on an A333 : 150,000 lb ( 68,000 kg ) . ( It can carry <URL> ( 79,460 kg ) of Jet-A ) Total before cargo for our fully-loaded A333 : 468,450 lb ( 212,490 kg ) . Now let 's say we double everyone 's weight . Adding another 43,950 lb ( 19,940 kg ) adds another 9 % to the gross takeoff weight for our A333 full of 300 lb ( 136 kg ) passengers . Also , one must consider that fuel is a major operating cost for airlines , but far from the only one . The other costs for operating your flight include : Cost of paying the flight crew . Cost of paying the cabin crew . Cost of paying the ground crew ( baggage handlers , maintenance , wing walkers , etc. ) Cost of paying the check-in agents , gate agents , and other customer service personnel . Cost of paying all of the administrative staff back at corporate ( marketing , executive staff , IT staff , logistics planners , weather forecasters , dispatchers , etc. ) Amortization of that <URL> . Maintenance of said $ 246 million aircraft ( parts , hangars , ferry flights , etc. ) Airport fees ( landing fees , gate fees , hangar rental , check-in desk rental , etc. ) All of these costs add up so much that fuel costs <URL> in the most recent quarter and they were on the high end . So , our A330-300 full of 300 lb ( 136 kg ) passengers would only increase airline costs by around 9.38 % x 0.27 = about 2.5 % . Conclusion : Your below-average weight is decreasing airline costs from those of flying an average 150 lb ( 68 kg ) passenger by probably a fraction of a percent . This is certainly not worthwhile for the airline to create such a small discount , especially not considering the business they 'd likely lose over people not wanting to be weighed and/or feeling discriminated against and/or feeling that their privacy is being violated . Baggage In addition to the title question of whether you can get a discount for weighing less , baggage was also mentioned . The situation is a little different with baggage and actually varies depending on the type of baggage . What you 're paying for when you buy a ticket is : A certain amount of floor space in the passenger cabin ( namely , the amount your seat occupies , ) A certain amount of carry-on baggage , and A certain amount of checked baggage . The reasons for this are : Carry-On Baggage With carry-on baggage , you 're again paying more for space than for weight . There 's only so much volume available for carry-on baggage in the passenger cabin , so there are limits to how much any one person can bring so that , hopefully , everyone can get theirs in . No U.S. airline I 've flown on has ever even bothered to weigh carry-on baggage . They only care that you have no more than the allowed two pieces ( namely , one that will fit in the overhead bin and one that will fit under the seat in front of you . ) Some non-U.S. airlines I 've flown on have weighed carry-on baggage , but only for safety purposes ( i.e. to make sure it did n't exceed the weight capacity of the overhead bin . ) In those cases , overweight bags did n't have an extra fee , but were rather banned outright , since it was a safety concern , not a cost concern . Checked Baggage With checked baggage , the situation is a little different . As densely-packed as passenger cabins may feel these days , the reality is that they 're mostly filled with air . That 's not necessarily the case with the cargo hold where checked baggage goes . It still has volume limits , but its weight limits also become significant , since the cargo is packed much more densely than the passenger cabin . With cargo , in addition to the volume limits , there are multiple weight limits at play : The Maximum Takeoff Weight ( MTOW ) of the aircraft . For this , all weight on board does matter . The weight limit of the particular cargo deck itself . For this , only cargo weight matters . The weight limit that any one baggage handler is required to lift by himself . For this , only the weight of your one particular bag matters . In practice , the last of those ends up being the reason for overweight bag fees . If your bag weighs more than an individual handler is required to lift by himself , they 'll need multiple handlers and/or special equipment every single time they handle your bag , which can be quite a lot of times . It 's for this reason that you 'll be charged an extra fee for carrying one 55 lb . ( 25 kg ) bag , but not for two 50 lb . ( 22.7 kg ) bags . Of course , as long as the bags are all under the maximum a handler is required to lift , more bags means more cost to the airline ( it takes them 5 times as
Ramadan is the 9th month of the Islamic year , it can be 29 or 30 days ( as every other month in this lunar calendar ) . Usually this is determined by visual observation of the moon in the 29th of the month , if the moon was observed then the month is 29 days , if not then the month will continue to 30 days . FYI , this is why the crescent is considered the symbol for Islam . So , there is no way to know in advance . Calculations are accurate most of the times but still it can go wrong especially if the weather is cloudy and the moon could not be observed while calculations suggest the month is 29 days , then the month will continue to 30 days regardless of the calculations . This is of course in most countries . Some countries do depend totally on calculations , while others do not . One more thing worth mentioning , the same rules apply to the month before Ramadan ( Sha'aban ) , which means any altering to that month will affect Ramadan , causing the two days difference than the calculated dates , as was suggested in your question . In many years , Islamic countries have three Eids ( the first day after Ramadan , it is like Christmas for Muslims ) , one would end Ramadan two days earlier than the others , while some end it one day earlier , and the rest end it on 30 days ! so there is a chance to attend three different Eids . Bahrain , as most of the Sunni countries follow Saudi Arabia , Shia countries ( or groups within countries ) mostly follow Iran . Some countries like Indonesia can have two different dates ! some will stop fasting on a date and the rest will add one more day . The official Islamic Calendar in Saudi Arabia is called <URL> , which is also followed in Bahrain in this regard , if you want to have the best guess then this is it , and according to it , Ramadan will end on 16th of July , 2015 .
end question
start question
Marital status for re-entering USA if you got married abroad without registering ?
I have been through this same situation , except that I was on H1 visa . My spouse was a GC holder and we got married in India . All I had was a certificate issued by the religious institution where our marriage ceremony was held . To register and get the Marriage Certificate from State , we had to wait there for 90 days and physically present to receive the certificate , which was not possible for us as I only had three weeks of leave . I re-entered US in the same H1-B visa and had no issues . I waited till my spouse became a US citizen and the applied for my GC , which got approved in 4 months . I had the certificate i got from the religious institution notarized by a notary in India and following are the things I used to prove that we are married while applying for my GC Latest tax filing report - filed as " Married Filing Jointly " Kid 's Birth Certificate with both our names Mortgage on both our names Finally , the notarized marriage certificate You will be re-entering the US in your existing F1 visa and if you are talking about declaring your status during the tax filing process , or the W2 you are referring to - declaring yourself as " Single " , will not be an issue - but prefer declaring yourself as " Married Filing Jointly " or " Married Filing Separately " - as it might help you when you apply for the GC . That being said - was entirely my story - please be advised at the same time that Marriages must be registered under the Hindu Marriage Act of 1955 if the persons concerned were married under Hindu , Buddhist , Jains or Sikh rites . The Registrar of Marriages will issue a certificate which the consulate will accept as primary evidence of marriage . As per <URL> Religious Ceremonies In India , a religious marriage ceremony is generally considered a legal marriage . However , for marriages registered under the Hindu Marriage Act ( affecting Hindus , Jains , Sikhs and Buddhists ) , the certificate issued by the temple or gurudwara may not be legally sufficient for all purposes . Individuals married under the Hindu Marriage Act may seek a formal marriage certificate from the Registrar of Marriages . If one of the parties is not Indian , the registrar may request a " no objection letter " ( see above ) and proof of termination of any prior marriages . If the parties are married in a Christian , Muslim , Parsi , Jewish , Baha’i or other religious ceremony , the certificate issued by the religious authority ( e.g. , the church 's marriage certificate , the mosque 's nikah nama , etc. ) generally is sufficient proof of marriage , and no certificate from the marriage registrar is necessary . Civil Ceremonies Parties who do not wish to marry in a religious ceremony can instead opt for a civil ceremony pursuant to the Special Marriage Act . Also , individuals of different religions should register the marriage under the Special Marriage Act , even if a religious ceremony has also been performed . This may also require a " no objection letter " ( see above ) , as well as proof of termination of any previous marriages . You can download a blank " No Objection " letter here ( PDF ) . The parties generally are required to wait at least 30 days from the date of the initial application to formalize the marriage so that the marriage officer can publish a newspaper ad allowing for the opportunity for any objections to the marriage to be voiced . The marriage registrar 's office generally is located in a local community 's court complex or municipal building . So , if your marriage was held in a temple , according to Hindu marriage Act of 1955 , it might not be valid in US and you will need a Marriage Certificate from the Registrar of Marriage . But , no one is going to deport you from the US , just because you got married in another country . PS : The legal information is provided " as is " without any representations or warranties , express or implied . I make no representations or warranties in relation to the legal information on what said above .
The <URL> in it 's portuguese version states : All foreigners , required or not to obtain a short stay visa , who wish to enter France must have a 30.000 Euros health insurance that covers all Schengen territory . " Strange that the same requirement is not mentioned in the <URL> . The <URL> in it 's portuguese version states : To reduce risks or delays in the border it is advisable to : Hire an international insurance , valid for Europe during the period of stay in the Schengen territory with a coverage of at least $ 30.000,00 for medical or hospital expenses . Even though it is not mandatory for entrance in the Netherlands , some other countries in the Schengen territory require this insurance . Additionally , I looked a few other ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) embassies sites in Brazil and none of them mention the health insurance requirement Besides that , it is common sense in Brazil that a Brazilian who wish to travel to Europe , must have this 30.000 EUR health insurance . For instance , credit cards like <URL> or <URL> advise that they will give such insurance if the airline tickets are bought using the credit card . A few travel forums and sites like <URL> ( backpackers ) or <URL> ( talking about travel ) also mention the need to have such health insurance . All in all , it 's hard to say if the health insurance is really mandatory or no . Evidences suggest it is not for brazilians , besides the common sense , but I just ca n't be sure .
The application only asks for your initial arrival date , not dates of every trip . Transit visas like most other US visas have a period of validity and a specified number of entries . The potential of getting a multiple entry C-1 or a limited number of entries ( 1 , 2 , etc ) depends on your citizenship . There is a webpage that you can enter the country of citizenship and see what the limits are on entries , validity , etc. . But these are maximums not guarantees , as the consular staff can decide to limit your visa to less time or less visits . <URL>
I would expect most countries to allow exceptions to their usual immigration procedures in cases of emergency ( there may even be some pieces of international legislation about this ) . Japan does , in <URL> : In the case of disease or any other accident which urgently requires the landing of a foreign national aboard a vessel or aircraft for the purpose of medical treatment , an immigration inspector may grant permission for emergency landing to the foreign national concerned based on an application by the captain of the vessel or aircraft or the carrier who operates the vessel or aircraft until the cause thereof ceases to exist , subject to a medical examination by a physician designated by the Minister of Health , Labour and Welfare or the Minister of Justice . ( Note that in Japanese immigration parlance , landing means entering Japan by passing through immigration , etc. )
Some airlines will match , others wo n't , so it 's tough to answer in the abstract As a general rule though , you 're more likely to get matching from a North American airline , and quite unlikely to get it from a European one except during one-off promotions . Also matching inside of an alliance is usually tough to get , between alliances is easier . For some examples , BA , Emirates , Lufthansa and Singapore are known for not offering status matching , where as Delta and Continental do . Things do change over time , but at the moment your best bet is to look through the <URL> , look up your new " local " airlines and see .
What kind of passport do I need ? See the <URL> . ( The VWP applies to German citizens among others . ) It says this about biometric passports : October 26 , 2006 -- Each Visa Waiver Program passport issued on or after this date must be an electronic passport with a digital chip containing biometric information about the passport owner . My passport does n't contain fingerprints ( to my knowledge ) , but that was n't a problem ( 2011 ) . What happens is they take your fingerprints &amp; photograph when entering the country . ( If the passport does contain your fingerprint data already , I 'm not sure if they 'd just read that or take the fingerprints again . ) So yes , your friend should be fine . To be more precise , the passport only needs to be electronic &amp; biometric if it was issued on or after October 26 , 2006 . ( Except for citizens of Czech Republic , Estonia , Slovakia , Hungary , Latvia , Lithuania , Republic of Malta , South Korea , and Greece who always need an electronic passport . ) In any case it needs to be machine readable ( i.e. contain two lines of text with numbers and chevrons ( < < < ) at the bottom ) . How long does the passport have to be valid ? To answer your updated question : And how long has the passport to be valid ? Is it okay if it expires on the day after his return date ? For citizens of Germany ( and most other ESTA-eligible countries ) , yes , this is okay ; no extra validity is required . The passport only needs to be valid for the duration of the visit . A document entitled <URL> from a <URL> ( found through <URL> ) has this to say : Visitors traveling to the United States are required to be in possession of passports that are valid for six months beyond the period of their intended stay in the United States . Citizens of the countries listed below are exempt the six-month rule and need only have a passport valid for their intended period of stay . Germany is on the ( long ) list of counties that follows . Finally , tell your friend to just go ahead with the ESTA application already ( unless the trip is a very long time away ; the <URL> for multiple trips over a period of two years ) . As <URL> : Have you signed up for the ESTA program yet ... if not you need to do it right away . Getting your Esta clearance is another confirmation of your passport being fine .
Ceuta and Melilla are administered by Spain ( though Morocco disputes their sovereignty over the cities ) . Both countries maintain border controls at the borders and Spain has built border fences around both cities . Residents of the Moroccan provinces of Tetuan and Nador have a special local border crossing scheme whereby <URL> ( but they can not enter mainland Spain or the rest of the Schengen area ) . Moroccan nationals living in other provinces can obtain a limited territorial validity visa from Spain for those cities only . ( b ) The specific arrangements for visa exemptions for local border traffic between Ceuta and Melilla and the Moroccan provinces of Tetuan and Nador shall continue to apply . ( c ) Moroccan nationals who are not resident in the provinces of Tetuan or Nador and who wish to enter the territory of the towns of Ceuta and Melilla exclusively shall remain subject to the visa requirement . The validity of these visas shall be limited to these two towns and may permit multiple entries and exits ( " visado limitado múltiple " ) in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 ( 3 ) and Article 11 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the 1990 Convention . Notably , while the cities are part of the Schengen area , there are passport checks upon departure by air or ferry , in order to ensure that Moroccan visitors without visas and illegal immigrants can not migrate to Europe or elsewhere . ( e ) Pursuant to its national law and in order to verify whether passengers still satisfy the conditions laid down in Article 5 of the 1990 Convention on the basis which they were authorised to enter national territory upon passport control at the external border , Spain shall maintain checks ( on identity and documents ) on sea and air connections departing from Ceuta and Melilla and having as their sole destination any other place on Spanish territory . To the same end , Spain shall maintain checks on internal flights and on regular ferry connections departing from the towns of Ceuta and Melilla to a destination in another State party to the Convention . There 's no provision that I can find for Tunisian nationals , so it appears that <URL> .
From <URL> : If you find you 're missing some Avios or Tier Points on your account you can claim them back within six months of your flight . New members can even claim Avios and Tier Points for any British Airways flights flown in the three months before joining . Note that you <URL> * for flights on partners , you 'd have to check to see if you could claim on the partner airline themselves . No credit will be granted for flights you flew on our airline partners prior to your enrolment in the Executive Club . Post-login link
Companies like Western Union ( they 're the biggest and because of the Nigerian scams the most notorious ) exist that allow people to wire cash to other countries . No actual cash is ever transferred of course , it 's these days all electronic :) A person in country A deposits an amount of money with the company , say $ 150 , and lists a recipient in another country . After taking a percentage ( or a fixed fee ) the recipient can then go to the company 's office the money has been " transferred " to and pick it up . If there 's a massive imbalance between offices , no doubt electronic transfers take care of shoring up the actual bank balances of the various national subsidiaries of these global entities . Used to be post offices around the world would cooperate to do much the same , they still may .
Well , let 's look at whether it 's possible first , to be <URL> . You 'll want to enter one of the cars that 's empty , obviously , otherwise you run into other problems ( being accused of tampering or theft ) . This means you 'll want to do so out of sight . You could do this along the tracks , if you know the train stops at a signal , or in the changing yard - both tricky , and the latter probably trespassing - given you 're not allowed off passenger platforms by law . Metafilter has a <URL> , but repeats time and again - if you get caught , you 're in trouble . Not " we 'll kick you off the train " trouble , but we 're talking arrests . Possible charges include : Tickets ( fines ) Warrants WILL be issued if you do n't pay the fines in the county issued wilful trespassing ( train tracks and yards are federal property , so you WILL get charged ) breaking and entering ( although if it 's unlocked and open you could probably contests that one in court ) It also amuses me that <URL> exists ... Another thing to remember , from anecdotal experience . Two friends and myself were on an overnight train from Bucharest , Romania to Istanbul , Turkey . The train was fairly full , and we wandered through looking for more space . We found three empty boxcars at the back . We have NO problem with lack of comfort , but we thought space could be pretty good . It then turned out we 'd been allocated two seats each somehow ( they seemed to actually have a backpacker class ) so gave up on that idea and enjoyed our seats . Mid-way through the night we stopped in Bulgaria to change engines . We got off , and then realised what could have gone horribly wrong - the boxcars were no longer attached , and had long since gone somewhere else ...
You are unlikley to be banned from the US for a short overstay where you did not breach other terms of your entry ( ie you did not work or comit any criminal acts ) . <URL> . I am not sure if it possible to do this retrospectivly however . Until ( and if ) you get a special dispensation for your health issues , you are however no longer eligible for use of the Visa Waiver Program ( the scheme that you used to enter the US , which is not the ESTA - ESTA is permission to travel to the US , not enter in to it ) . The US <URL> says under its requirements section : Previous Compliance and No Prior Visa Ineligibilities If you have had a U.S. visa before or previously traveled to the United States under the VWP or another status , you must have complied with the conditions of previous admissions to the United States , and you must not have previously been found ineligible for a U.S. visa . So unless you were given dispensation to stay , you have not previously complied with your visa waiver and will need to apply for a visa for future vists to the US . If you do this , you would be advised to explain and provide documentation for why you previously overstayed . You will certanly find out at this point if you have been banned . Nobody would have mentioned any of this on your departure from the US as the US does not have any exit immigration controls . You can however check your records for entries and exits under the VWP on <URL> . You could also try to contact the CBP directly to inquire if you are banned , I am not aware of any automated way to inquire ( and can find no obvious reference to visa/travel bans on their website ) .
This seems to be in violation of their stated policy . See <URL> which for " international to USA " states " Please note that your bags will be automatically transferred to your connecting flight . "
Yes , Switzerland is part of the Schengen area , so you will have no trouble traveling there , provided you remain within <URL> . You will still see border checkpoints for commercial traffic , as Switzerland is not part of the EEA , but you should not be affected .
if merchant has secured booking in advance and locked your payment does n't matter card is valid or cancelled , you will be charged after no show . if debit/credit card payment is not secured and cancelled before no show up then you will not be charged
I know somebody in a similar situation to you : she lived illegally in the US for some years , and many years later she wanted to return as a tourist . Although she would otherwise have been eligible for the Visa Waiver Program , her local US Consulate recommended that she apply for a visa because of her history . She got a visa and visited the US without any problems . When applying for the visa you will be asked whether you have ever overstayed in the past ; you can answer yes to this and still get a visa , but if you lie and get found out you almost certainly wo n't .
The decision whether and for how long is made <URL> : At the port-of-entry , a U.S. immigration officer of the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) decides whether to allow you to enter and how long you can stay for any particular visit , as part of the Admission process . Only the U.S. immigration officer has the authority to permit you to enter the United States . Six months is the normal maximum but this may be extended <URL> . Leaving USA terminates the validity of the visa , where that is single entry , or utilises one of the allowed entries where multiple entry . Returning from the EU ( after Christmas ) is a further entry , the duration of which is again up to the immigration officer -- and might be six months .
Short answer : The captain has to divert to the nearest airport in case the urgent medical attention will save a life . Long answer : The first thing the crew should do once there is a sick passenger is looking for a medical professional onboard . A doctor will be preferred but a nurse or so will do the job in case no doctor is available . Now if there is a medical professional onboard then he/she will be in charge of deciding whether to land the aircraft in the nearest airport or not ( emergency landing ) . The confusion comes when no doctor is available onboard , usually the pilot will decide to land right away in case of heart attacks or seizures or when the passenger is unconscious . Meanwhile the crew will try their best to save the passenger 's life , all crew members are trained for <URL> and almost all aircrafts are equipped with <URL> , doctor kits and first aid kits .
There is no problem driving in Morocco if you can not understand Arabic . I think the impression you get from your Google query is not quite correct . The road signs are bilingual Arabic/French , sometimes even with pictograms : <URL> In cities the signage can sometimes be a bit meager . Combined with the Moroccan style of drive , this makes crossing a city a bit more stressful . For overland travel , the signage is fine . Nevertheless it is a good idea to have a road map .
Are your tickets separate or one booking ? If they are two different tickets , then the Passenger Service Charge applies because you are technically / legally originating from Bangkok for the second one . The fact that you arrived in Bangkok only 12 hours earlier and did not leave the transit lounge does not negate this aspect . If you have a single ticket and Bangkok is just a layover , then the airline should not have charged the fee and you need to contact them about refunding the incorrect charge .
By default , yes . There are a few cases where you might not : the company has some sort of flight pass . Some of those passes accrue miles only by being bought , not by being used the company got you a ticket by redeeming miles or the like - reward tickets do n't earn miles the company booked and bought a super cheap fare that does n't earn miles If the fare earns miles , you 'll be the one who earns them . Make sure your number is recorded ( when you check in , ask the person to make sure it 's there and add it if it 's not ) and you 'll be all set . Most Frequent Flyers earned their status with tickets their employers and clients paid for .
end question
start question
Vancouver to Toronto by train in December : How warm is the cabin ?
The trains have both heating systems for the winter and cooling systems for the summer . I have not ridden through the Rockies , but I have ridden in the Toronto-Ottawa-Montreal zone and never noticed temperature to be an issue . In the winter you will have your coat etc with you because you will need it for outside . You wo n't need to layer on sweaters or bring a blanket . Your coat will doubtless be hung up or be in an overhead compartment , and your hat , gloves and scarf with it . ( The <URL> says " You may want to bring a sweater as temperatures on the train may vary " which is a useful disclaimer . Sweater . Not sweater , jacket , and blanket . ) It 's possible that if you were right by the door , you might feel a draft while the train was at a station . I always take Via 1 and there are no seats by the door , just baggage compartments and the galley , so I ca n't speak to that . However the door is n't open much because the stations are hours apart . It 's also possible that if the sun was really streaming in through a window that you would feel hot . You could close the blinds if that happened .
I have checked in many a cabin sized piece of luggage and never noticed them being handled any different from bigger sized items . At times I have chatted with the check-in staff when checking in a small case , they always reacted in a way that suggested that it is often done . They do understand the need when you are having two pieces when only one is allowed for carry-on or when you mention carrying items not allowed in the cabin . Looking out of the plane to the luggage carts on the tarmac you see all sizes of luggage mixed and when they put in the belly of the plane one by one , they are thrown no more gently nor more wildly than the bigger pieces of luggage . On reclaiming luggage , the smaller items are , again , mixed with the bigger pieces and come the normal way . So make sure your cabin allowed trolley is sturdy enough to handle normal luggage handling . In all cases of luggage damage , get to the location within the luggage reclaim area where you are going to be helped when luggage is missing . Often the same location as where you collect out-sized luggage , but it can also be a different office off the main hall or a glass walled one in the hall . Get forms filled out and photos taken ( if only by yourself if they do not do it as well ) and do not leave till you have been seen by staff . Claiming online or by mail after you come home is not as likely to be successfull , as they can easily claim you have damaged the case since or have substituded a damaged case for the one you used . But I have always taken sending in luggage as taking a risk . If it breaks in a predictable way , I replace it . I might take action if a new strong trolley is broken or ripped open , but a small dent or even a broken off wheel on a used one , bad luck . In some airports you can get your luggage plastic wrapped . In some you can get sturdy plastic bags that encase your whole luggage ( mostly for backpacks but if you see them supplied you can ask . ) And you can of course buy a bigger case or bag and put it outside your cabin sized trolley .
The trains have both heating systems for the winter and cooling systems for the summer . I have not ridden through the Rockies , but I have ridden in the Toronto-Ottawa-Montreal zone and never noticed temperature to be an issue . In the winter you will have your coat etc with you because you will need it for outside . You wo n't need to layer on sweaters or bring a blanket . Your coat will doubtless be hung up or be in an overhead compartment , and your hat , gloves and scarf with it . ( The <URL> says " You may want to bring a sweater as temperatures on the train may vary " which is a useful disclaimer . Sweater . Not sweater , jacket , and blanket . ) It 's possible that if you were right by the door , you might feel a draft while the train was at a station . I always take Via 1 and there are no seats by the door , just baggage compartments and the galley , so I ca n't speak to that . However the door is n't open much because the stations are hours apart . It 's also possible that if the sun was really streaming in through a window that you would feel hot . You could close the blinds if that happened .
Apart from the regular travel search , DB also features a <URL> ( rough translation : cheap price finder ) . You will need to use the out-of-country one that I linked ( hopefully the link does n't die ) , select Sweden as the country and Stockholm as the station . It features four options from Saarbrücken to Stockholm ranging from $ 139 to $ 169 if you do n't have a BahnCard ( and are 31 ; I randomly put in an age because it asks you to and I did n't want to risk youth prices ) . If you can , you really should book a single through ticket . If you do , then it 's not your fault if you miss any train due to delays . No matter how you do it , there is going to be a night connection somewhere . Since German railways do not see themselves as competent enough to offer night trains with sleeper cars , you are either restricted to a night in a sitting train or one at a station ( one connection I can see has you wait 3:50 h in Neumünster -- not exactly my definition of a successful night ;) ) . Of course , you can always break your journey into two , but you ca n't book that via the Sparpreisfinder directly . However , if you set your eyes on a specific part in Denmark/Sweden , you can go back to the usual journey planner and select a stay of however long at a German station of your desire . You will still be able to book a through ticket . The connections I got : Regional train ; leaves Saarbrücken at 15:47 , arrives in Mannheim at 17:13 ( RE 4114 ) ICE ; leaves Mannheim at 18:00 , arrives in Hamburg at 22:54 ( ICE 572 ) InterCity ( operated by DSB ) ; leaves Hamburg at 23:42 , arrives in Copenhagen at 06:56 ( IC 231 ; this is a typical Danish intercity train set ) X2000 ; leaves Copenhagen at 08:20 , arrives in Stockholm at 13:39 ( X2 530 ; <URL> ) Regional train ; leaves Saarbrücken at 16:46 , arrives in Mannheim at 18:18 ( RE 4116 ) ICE ; leaves Mannheim at 18:29 , arrives in Kassel-Wilhelmshöhe at 20:41 ( ICE 274 ) ICE ; leaves Kassel at 21:36 , arrives in Hamburg at 00:36 ( ICE 782 ) Regional train , leaves Hamburg at 00:45 , arrives in Neumünster at 01:41 ( RE 21140 ) A night at Neumünster station Regional train , leaves Neumünster at 05:30 , arrives in Flensburg at 06:46 ( RE 21050 ) InterCity , leaves Flensburg at 06:50 , arrives in Fredericia at 08:10 ( IC 5721 ) Lyntog , leaves Fredericia at 08:22 , arrives in Copenhagen at 10:41 ( LYN 51018 ) X2000 , leaves Copenhagen at 11:20 , arrives in Stockholm at 16:39 ( X2 536 ) Regional train ; leaves Saarbrücken at 21:47 , arrives in Mannheim at 23:35 ( RE 4126 ) InterCity ; leaves Mannheim at 02:15 , arrives in Hamburg at 09:05 ( IC 60478 ; I suspect that this is also a night train , but the Sparpreisfinder can not find sleeping cars or whatever ) ICE ; leaves Hamburg at 09:28 , arrives in Copenhagen at 14:22 ( ICE 33 ; crosses the Fehmarn belt by ferry ) X2000 ; leaves Copenhagen at 15:20 , arrives in Stockholm at 20:39 ( X2 544 ) All this was plugging a random day . You see that you get two general routes : Northwards to Hamburg and then either across the Danish mainland to Copenhagen or across the Fehmarn belt . The last leg is identical .
I work in Reading and regularly cycle in the area and also use the station . I can tell you that no such provision exists for secure bicycle storage . The station is a known hotspot for cycle theft so I would not risk leaving a decent bike there . But ... if your bike is n't particularly expensive and does n't stand out you 'll probably be OK . Just remember to follow <URL> .
According to <URL> , this is either <URL> line ( 3315 km ) , closely followed by Paris-Moscow ( 3217 km ) . I would have thought that the Venice Simplon Express on the route <URL> or the <URL> route would be a good candidate too , but I ca n't really find the distances . A google maps route plan using a car suggest that both are shorter than the above , but obviously this will depend on the exact route taken .
The TSA actually has <URL> on their website : You may bring skydiving rigs with and without Automatic Activation Devices ( AAD ) as carry-on or checked luggage . Typically , a rig will move through the checked luggage or carry-on security screening process without needing physical inspection . However , TSA security officers have a duty to thoroughly inspect any item that raises suspicion . If security officers determine that they need to open a rig to inspect it , you must be present and will be allowed to assist . For this reason , we encourage skydivers to add at least 30 minutes to the airline 's recommended arrival window when they are traveling with their parachutes . Fox News also has <URL> which mentions it , along with pot-bellied pigs and monkeys ... : Skydivers need to add 30 minutes to their arrival time because although you can carry on your skydiving rigs , with and without Automatic Activation Devices ( AAD ) , security may choose to open a rig to inspect it . You must be present and will be allowed to assist with the inspection . Of course , given the pressurisation issues of a cabin , the speed of the plane , and other factors involved in an emergency , the odds of you being able to use it successfully are extremely ... small ...
It might be possible to use only Euro , but as the others have already pointed out , the conversion rate is not very favourable . In the last year , new ticket vending machines have been installed in Budapest , which accept credit cards , but obviously not Euro banknotes so at least for public transport you will need either HUF or a credit card . So if you do n't want to use HUF , you might use your card ( depending on its conditions ) . Of course , if you want to go to small shops , restaurants etc you will most probably need HUF .
Night train through Germany are operated by <URL> . It may help to look at the map in <URL> <URL> . Another useful way to visualize your options is <URL> . For train schedules across Europe ( except the Balkans and the Russias ) , everything is conveniently available on the <URL> . If you do the whole trip by rail , there are several hurdles : From London to the continent , there 's only one option : a day train to Brussels . To cross Germany by night , you have to start in the west ( not much further than Cologne ) , and go at least as far as Hamburg ( for a very early morning arrival ) , with a train arriving in Copenhagen late in the morning . From Germany to Östersund by rail , you need to change at Copenhagen and Stockholm . You need to choose between a night trip from Copenhagen to Stockholm , one from Stockholm to Östersund , and spending the day in trains from Copenhagen to Östersund . So here are a few possibilities : There is one way to finish the trip with a long straight train journey ( on most days ; check the schedules , especially if you 're traveling near a week-end or holiday ) : take the night train 40447 to Copenhagen arriving at 10:02 , change for <URL> to Malmö then <URL> to Stockholm and <URL> to Östersund ( arriving at 22:20 ) . You need to depart from Amsterdam at 19:01 or Cologne at 22:28 ( or other points along the route ) . The problem with this approach is that since you 'll be spending so much time traveling by day that there 's no stretch of the journey left with a night train . If you 're willing to take a ferry , you can cross the North Sea from <URL> by night . You 'll be in Holland at 7:45 , giving you the best part of the day to catch the 40447 in Amsterdam or Utrecht ( 1 1/2 hours away ) . If you hurry along the western part of your journey and to the 40447 , you can be in Stockholm at 15:50 , then leave at <URL> for the night train to Östersund . That 's not much time to spend in Stockholm , and best reserved for the summer so you at least can spend some of it in daylight . If you take the <URL> , you can leave Hamburg as late as <URL> . That does n't leave much time to come from Berlin , unless you want to sample Berlin 's night life ( which is pretty lively ) . You could leave London in the afternoon , take the <URL> from Cologne to Hamburg ( 4am arrival ) , and spend a bit of time in Hamburg . You could take the night ferry to Hoek van Holland , travel to Berlin by day and spend the night there . A longer and more expensive journey goes via Paris : take a morning Eurostar , spend the day in Paris , take the overnight train to Hamburg , continue via the route of your choice . You can take a ferry from <URL> to Sweden . You can even take an <URL> on this route , the <URL> : board in Berlin at 22:31 , alight in Malmö at 08:01 ( with a connection to Stockholm arriving at 12:45 , in time to be in Östersund in the evening ) . This lets you bypass Copenhagen . If you do n't sleep through it , you 'll have the nowadays rare experience of a train loaded onto a ferry .
Take your own food . As a rule , the food served on trains is bland and overpriced . He will probably have time at the stations to purchase extra drinks , or if not get them on the train . He is probably not going to sleep that well in a regular train compartment ( I never do at least ) . Obviously he should take a book . The main risk if he is travelling alone is that he will have an aisle seat and will have to try not to accidentally lean on the person in the window when he falls asleep . Have the details of the changes written down and near to hand . Do n't look at the tickets themselves whilst on a train station platform - the risk of accidentally losing them in the rush is too high . Instead write down all the info ( including your seat number ) on a seperate piece of paper that you can just shove in your pocket and keep your tickets safe in your bag . Always try to get the window seat ! Find out what the words for " departure " , " arrival " and " platform " are in the countries that you will be changing in . It is usually in English too , but knowing the German ( or whatever ) wo n't hurt . Like mindcorrosive said , you have to watch out for things being stolen whilst you 're sleeping . Personally I always have a seperate , small backpack ( that I carry on my front if I have two backpacks ) , with all my valuables in and a padlock on it . I use it as a pillow , so it would be pretty hard for anyone to take it without me noticing , plus I get a free pillow :) If he is taking a night train he should have booked a sleeping compartment ! I know it seems expensive , but trust me , after one trip like this he will really understand why it 's good value for money . You may not sleep that much better in a bunk , but at least you have space to put your feet and a personal reading light . I know the difference in price makes you think twice , and I 've been persuaded by the cheaper ticket many times , but every time I cave and buy the cheaper seating ticket I end up regretting it . Obviously it 's too late to change this , but for anyone else who reads this I ca n't recommend it enough . I 've taken 100 + night trains in Europe and maybe 25 % of them were miserable experiences because I had to sit in a six person compartment ( 3 people facing 3 people ) , in a middle seat , in the carriage next to the engine , with 5 people who did n't speak English and refused to turn the light off , with nowhere to put my feet and nowhere to rest my head for 12 + hours overnight . Source : Taken many train journeys with 8 + changes lasting 48 + hours :)
There are things I would try doing and there are the others . Attempting to enter Russia before my visa is valid ( or attempt to overstay my Russian visa ) even if by a few hours only clearly belongs to the others . The visa is valid from a minute before 00:01 of its first validity date and until a minute after 23:59 of its last validity date . Entering the country earlier ( even two hours ) is illegal entrance . While the Finnish conductors and even the passport/toll people often seem rather nice ( and I have heard one joke around with the passengers ) , the same can not be said for the Russian ones . I perceive them as people I would not want to cross . Even if the Russian border personnel does not board until Vyborg ( Viipuri ) , they will know that the train entered their country at 22:00 and that you need a valid visa for today if you are on that train . On an unrelated note : I read it on VR 's ( Finnish state railway 's ) website ( but ca n't find it anymore ) that if you intend to travel with Tolstoi , the night train from Moscow , you must make sure that your visa is valid for an ' additional ' day , since the train does not cross the border until well after midnight . So : No , just no . If your visa is valid from day X , do not enter Russia until day X.
According to the <URL> , the last connection from Helsinki-Vantaa airport T2 to Turku leaves the airport at 22:50 , arriving in Turku at 01:30 . ( There 's also an earlier bus at 21:50 which you 'll likely make if your flight is on time . ) Both also serve T1 ( leaving 10 minutes earlier ) and involve a change of bus at Espoo 's Ikea along the way , but the buses are run by the same company ( Pohjolan Liikenne ) as a guaranteed service , so this should be pretty painless . Should you miss the 22:50 , the next services are at 0:30 AM , 01:25 AM and 03:45 AM . So you 're definitely not going to get stuck at the airport for the night ! There are also other options if you detour via central Helsinki , eg . transferring to a <URL> at Helsinki Central ( last departure 23:00 , but arriving slightly earlier at 01:00 ) and the supercheap <URL> service ( last bus from central Helsinki at 22:45 ) . But if it 's your first time in Helsinki and/or you 're tired after a long flight etc , the direct bus is the easiest option .
Yes , it is acceptable . However , it is etiquette that if the baby does start to make noise that you take it to the " deck " area beyond the doors ( where the bathrooms , telephone , vending machines , etc. ) are . This is the same protocol if you have to make or receive a telephone call , want to have a loud conversation with your seatmate , or do anything that might disturb other passengers . I should note that this has nothing to do with the green car -- the main cars nominally operate under these protocols , it 's just that the other passengers ( and conductors ) are less likely to enforce them .
There are no stages , early booking is usually cheaper , as you will get your place . If you want to press price down , select shared accommodation , but you lose the privacy . You can pick some special offer if is available . Best guide I ever found for this is on <URL> Follow the links mentioned to discover/monitor if there is a special offer suitable for you . It does not look so at the moment .
Try these in search engine in google : inurl : tripadvisor.com " fireplace " " central europe " " hotel " inurl : booking.com " fireplace " " central europe " " hotel " Add more keywords to place a specific country , etc. .
There are political reasons behind this and I believe that this is n't the appropriate website to discuss this . Anyway , you can find cheaper rail and air tickets for the BCN-MAD route . Try with <URL> for instance . This website returns prices for airlines and Renfe trains . I 've tested for you some dates and you can fly for less than 30 euros and go by train for less than 40 euros . For example , on february 21th go by air is 27 euros ( Vueling ) and go by rail is 32 euros ( renfe ) . So , the response is : going by high speed train is very expensive but " slow " train has a reasonable price .
Yes , you can leave the airport . Green card holders do n't need a visa to visit Canada . You will need to go through Canadian immigration after arrival to Vancouver , no matter whether you decide to leave the airport or not . You should arrive at the airport in advance since you will need to clear the US immigration in Vancouver before the departure . Update : If anybody can suggest how to spend time in Vancouver , please post a separate answer . But clearly if you take a cab to the city and back , you 'll have at least 5-6 hours in Vancouver .
I am from Croatia and I find their site confusing as well . Maybe <URL> can help you . IMHO , on this link you have very clear timetable for selected date if that is what you want to find
Most tourists are not even looked at for this kind of thing as they have no value to the drug cartels . As always , you just have to be mindful and be safe . For taking the bus , one thing to consider is have a few peso coins handing for the restroom along the way . Also , take some toilet paper with you . As far as smuggling , border control is pretty tight , and getting through with anything smuggled is going to be quite difficult . Most of that stuff happens out in the desert anyway . Enjoy the bus ride , Dallas to Monterrey sounds like a great trip to take .
The ones I 've seen work on a scratch-off method and <URL> , so I think you 'd be lining up to show it to the guy in the booth . Day Passes are printed on card paper ; Weekly Passes and Metropasses have a magnetic strip for automatic turnstiles and so , like tokens , work at all subway/RT station entrances whether staffed or not . On surface vehicles , the pass is simply shown to the driver .
end question
start question
Do Vietnamese citizens need a visa to enter Spain for short term ?
Spain is a Schengen treaty country , so you will need a Schengen visa : Holders of a Vietnamese passport require a visa for the " Schengen States " . <URL> The cost for all temporary visas is 60 EUR , and you also need insurance and a lot of documentation . If your summer school regularly takes in foreign visitors , they should already know what visa you need and how to apply for it , so talk to them first .
So as you have realised , a visa is required for tourist purposes for citizens of Saudi Arabia visiting South Africa . It depends a little on how thorough you want to be - but basically , the more prepared you are , the better chance you have . For example , the most <URL> include : Passport valid for 6 months beyond date of departure . 2 passport-size photos with signature on reverse side . 1 completed application form ( failure to complete the application fully and in detail may result in visa being delayed or refused ) . Proof of sufficient funds to cover visit . Onward/return ticket and , if in transit , proof of sufficient documentation for admission to the country of destination . Extra ones that <URL> include : No criminal record ( if you have proof of this , it could be useful ) Be of sound body and mind ( hard to prove this though ! ) A plan describing your intent while in South Africa - where you 're staying , what you want to do Evidence of hotels booked , car rentals and the like Contacts in case of emergency in South Africa ( if you have any ) A vaccination certificate Passport valid for no less than 30 days after the expiry of the intended visit . Proof of travel insurance / medical cover Now the problem you have is most sites seem to say it can take 3-10 days to process . Of course as you travel a lot , you 're probably aware that money can usually make these delays go away . Talk nicely to the embassy staff , ask if there 's anything extra they might need , make sure all your documents are nicely organised , ask them about South Africa while talking - see if they 're from there and if they have favourite places ( makes a connection , meaning more chance of them helping you out ) .
<URL> You can then extend this for another 30 days by paying a fee . Visas on Arrival If your country of nationality appears on the list below , no advance visa arrangements are required to visit the UAE . Simply disembark your flight at Dubai International Airport and proceed to Immigration , where your passport will be stamped with a 30-day visit visa free of charge . This can be extended for an additional 30 days at an additional charge . <URL>
Okay , while all the answers here were awesome , I got mixed responses . So I ended up contacting the US Consulate in Lilongwe , Malawi . Here was their response : Entry visas for U.S. travelers are available upon arrival in Malawi at both of the international airports , Lilongwe and Blantyre , as well as at border crossings . You will have to complete a one-page visa application form and pay the USD $ 75 ( U.S. dollars only ) but it 's fairly routine at this point . I 'm copying our official announcement below for your reference . <URL>
Depends where you are coming from , and how to get to that transit country . If you come by air , you can go form Australia or Chile . More people however seem to come by boat . Most boats leave from New Zealand , Argentina , Chile or Australia . I would decide between those 4 depending where is the easiest to get a Visa , and then search for operators through those specific countries . I would not assume that you can just transit through the country without a visa , since you will have to stop over at those places to get equipment , change from airplane to boat etc , so you will have to go through immigration . If you travel by plane only even you will have the same issue because most of the airplanes going there are cargo , research or military planes that do not work like normal passenger airplanes with a switch on the airport . <URL> .
If you were gone for a little less than three months , rather than three months or more , it qualifies as a " short gap " in coverage and so you 're exempt from the requirement to have insurance . From the <URL> What are the statutory exemptions from the requirement to obtain minimum essential coverage ? ... Short coverage gap . You went without coverage for less than three consecutive months during the year . For more information , see question 22 . Otherwise , I suspect that you 're out of luck . There 's an exemption from having coverage if you 're gone for an entire year ; from the <URL> U.S. citizens living abroad are generally subject to the same individual shared responsibility provision as U.S. citizens living in the United States . Starting in 2014 , the individual shared responsibility provision calls for each individual to have minimum essential coverage ( MEC ) for each month , qualify for an exemption , or make a payment when filing his or her federal income tax return . However , U.S. citizens or residents living abroad for at least 330 days within a 12 month period are treated as having MEC during those 12 months and thus will not owe a shared responsibility payment for any of those 12 months . Also , U.S. citizens who qualify as a bona fide resident of a foreign country for an entire taxable year are treated as having MEC for that year . It may still be cheaper to pay the tax penalty for the three months in question than it would be to buy insurance that 's valid in the US , though . You might want to look in to how much the penalty would actually be for you . The penalty for full-year non-coverage is <URL> this would be pro-rated for the parts of the year in which you do n't have coverage , so your penalty would be about a quarter of this amount . Disclaimer : I am not a lawyer or a tax professional of any kind , so my reading could be entirely off-base . There may be other exemptions that I 'm not aware of .
" Leave to enter " is short for " Leave to enter the United Kingdom " . It is defined in <URL> ... <URL> Six months was initially selected as the maximum amount of leave that can be given to a non-visa national because that interval ties in to lots of other legislation rooted in English common law where the interval of six months plays an important part . In the <URL> , the usage of six months is explicit per <URL> ... A visitor is a person who is coming to the UK , usually for up to six months , for a temporary purpose , for example as a tourist , to visit friends or family or to carry out a business activity . How is the six months counted ? Is it a number of days or is it six calendar months regardless of the number of days in each month ? Days have nothing to do with it . Sometimes six months can be 181 days or more and other times it can be 179 days or less . You add six months to the date on your leave to enter and that 's your expiry date . The counting method for corner cases where the person arrives on the 31st of the month is the final day of the 6th month . Examples : People granted leave to enter on 31 Aug 2015 should be gone by midnight 29 Feb 2016 . But consider that people granted leave to enter on 28 Feb 2015 should be gone by midnight 28 August 2015 . However , it is not carved in stone . People have tried taking some of these corner cases to court and have achieved mixed results depending upon what they were trying to accomplish . I have also seen a case where a silver-tongued individual was able to out whittle an official on a corner case and avoid an overstay penalty . Any ambiguities are built into the law from a long , long time back and they are not likely to become more precise in the current era because ' six months ' has a lot to do with a lot of things in the legislative framework . If you think you are in a corner case , it is best to query the IO on arrival what your expiry is . Related : <URL> See also : <URL> See also : <URL>
Since the 72 hour visa is only available to the EU countries , UK , Switzerland , and Japan . Which means that the rest of the people will have to enter under the regular tourist visa . There is also agreements being put in place regarding <URL> , so I would just apply for that and use it to enter both Kaliningrad and St. Petersburg . Or you could wait until <URL>
I believe the answer is immigration , immigration and immigration ( real or perceived ) . In Europe at least , visa requirements and enforcement measures are motivated mostly by the risk that the people in question would try to enter the country and stay there illegally ( and of course all the political posturing around that risk ) . It could be argued that immigration is generally a net gain for a country ( cf. your point about talented people ) or that the risk of illegal immigration is overblown or entirely the result of an overly restrictive policy regarding legal immigration but none of this changes the politics . Just to provide some direct evidence of all this , the following is from the preamble of the Schengen visa code : In accordance with Article 61 of the Treaty , the creation of an area in which persons may move freely should be accompanied by measures with respect to external border controls , asylum and immigration . [ ... ] As regards visa policy , the establishment of a ' common corpus ' of legislation , particularly via the consolidation and development of the acquis ( the relevant provisions of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 and the Common Consular Instructions , is one of the fundamental components of ' further development of the common visa policy as part of a multi-layer system aimed at facilitating legitimate travel and tackling illegal immigration through further harmonisation of national legislation and handling practices at local consular missions ' , as defined in the Hague Programme : strengthening freedom , security and justice in the European Union . [ ... ] It is necessary to set out rules on the transit through international areas of airports in order to combat illegal immigration . Thus nationals from a common list of third countries should be required to hold airport transit visas . Nevertheless , in urgent cases of mass influx of illegal immigrants , Member States should be allowed to impose such a requirement on nationals of third countries other than those listed in the common list . Member States ' individual decisions should be reviewed on an annual basis . This is only one example but it 's explicitly all about immigration . I think the other considerations ( reciprocity , passports ) only factor in tangentially . Note that until now the EU has not really been insisting so strongly on reciprocity , so that US citizens still enjoy visa-free visits to the whole Schengen area despite the fact that after years of discussion there are still several EU countries whose citizens are not eligible for the Visa Waiver Program . Similarly , some or all EU citizens enjoy visa-free ( or visa-on-arrival ) access to countries such as Turkey , Morocco , Tunisia and most of South America so reciprocity is clearly overemphasized as an explanation .
In general , you need a visa as an Indonesian passport holder . The only exemption , which applies to you , is where you have a re-entry visa and a travel plan including travel tickets to a country like the USA or Canada . If you have a re-entry visa to the US , and you do not plan to stay in Korea longer than 30 days , you can enter <URL> , bound for the USA as a holder of a re-entry visa to the USA .
You have to make a distinction between the Schengen area on the one hand and the UK , Ireland , Cyprus , Romania , Bulgaria and Croatia on the other hand . All EU countries should grant your wife the right to travel together with you ( but not alone ) with minimal formalities but those that are not in the Schengen area might still require her to get a separate visa . For the Schengen area , you only need one visa . So if you want to go to Switzerland ( technically Switzerland is not in the EU but for this purpose , it 's pretty much the same for the time being ) , you would apply to the Swiss consulate . With the visa issued by the Swiss consulate you will also be able to travel in most of the EU without any other formalities ( but , again , not to the UK , Ireland , etc. ) If you really want to visit all non-Schengen EU countries , then yes , you might need up to 5 or 6 visas ( although Romania , Bulgaria , Croatia and Cyprus have some special rules for Schengen visa holders so it might be possible to go there with your wife 's Schengen visa as well ) . Furthermore , being married should in principle make things easier ( at least in the EU proper , not entirely sure about Switzerland , see comments ) . In your quote , " these " in " check what these are " should be something like a marriage certificate , not the whole documentation package ( insurance &amp; financials &amp; itinerary ) that other applicants have to provide and the consulates have very little discretion in deciding to issue the visa or not . The visa should also be free of charge ( regular Schengen visa fees are currently EUR 60 ) . Beware , however , all those rules only apply if you are travelling together as they are derived from your right , as EU citizen , to travel freely in the EU . Note that , since you are a UK citizen , these rules also do not generally apply to the UK . Going there might even be more difficult , depending on UK law .
If were a citizen of the Kingdom of the Netherlands , with a passport issued by that country , you would need a <URL> . If you are a citizen of Italy , with a passport issued by the Kingdom of the Netherlands , again , you would need a visa . If you are an Italian citizen , with a passport issued by the government of Italy , then you are exempt , as you yourself indicate .
The Rainbow Bridge is a land border crossing between Canada and the US . There are no facilities to cross it without departing one country and entering the other , so as a result you will need whatever legal status is required to enter the other country - which obviously depends on your citizenship . If you are a Canadian or US citizen then you do not normally need a Visa , but you will require a passport or a passport card . There are exceptions to this if you have a criminal record , etc , but these are the same for any Canadian citizen entering the US or vice versa . If you are a member of a Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) for entering the US then you do not normally need a visa ( again , with the usual exceptions around criminal records , etc ) . As you are entering by land you do not need an approved ETSA as you would if entering by air , however you will need to fill in an I94W form . If you are from a country that requires a visa to enter the US , then you will require a visa . Technically if you do not have a visa then the US would most likely " deport " you to the country you arrived from ( ie , back over the bridge to Canada ) - do not think of this as an easy way to get around the requirement if you are just expecting to see the bridge . Doing this will give you a permanent mark against your US immigration record , and make it harder to enter the US in the future ! The main thing you need to keep in mind is that you will be departing from and then re-entering Canada , and thus if you require a visa for entering Canada you should make sure that it will allow you to re-enter . eg , if you are on a single entry visa for Canada , you will technically not be allowed re-enter after visiting the USA .
Yes there is a form to be filled , and that is the arrival card which you usually get it during the flight . The form has simple fields : Name , date of birth , passport information , address in Indonesia , duration of stay and flight number along with other usual stuff . No tricky or smart questions like in visa forms of other countries . This form should be handed to the immigration desk currently , not to the VOA desk like before . UPDATE ( 2016 ) : Earlier in 2016 , no more landing cards and no more VOAs are required , except for business visas . All tourists who required a VOA before are now eligible to enter without landing cards or a printed VOA for 30 days , no more fees to be paid as well . The customs form is still required .
This turns out to be surprisingly nuanced . In short , while officially discouraged , short-term rentals are legal , or at least not illegal , in Singapore . The Urban Redevelopment Authority ( URA ) , the Singapore government body responsible for private housing , <URL> that : Private residential properties or their rooms within the premises should not be rented out on a short-term basis for less than 6 months on a daily/weekly/monthly basis . And quite a few third-party sources go on to conflate this with the HDB 's legal prohibition on sublets , with the URA also <URL> . But a <URL> by James Chua , CEO of Singapore-based short-term rental company <URL> , quotes his own laywers : " ... the Guideline is not law as it is not codified in a statutory instrument . The URA , in response to a query from the public , made a statement in The Straits Times on 26 May 2012 in which it conceded that the Guideline was not a ' ruling ' , but stressed that the URA " issue [ s ] guidelines from time to time to provide transparency and clarity on how the URA exercises its functions under the Planning Act " ... " And goes on to summarize : Short-term renting is NOT ILLEGAL for private property The popular " 6-month minimum rental period " quoted widely in the press is not a law but a guideline by the URA ( Leasing guideline ) Owners of short-term rental homes should ensure guests do n't cause disturbance to the neighbourhood or they are at risk of getting in trouble with the URA The URA has the authority to take action only if guest causes disturbance to the neighbourhood . Singapore being Singapore , the URA will probably at some point " scare the monkeys by killing a chicken " and make an example of some poor Airbnb host who rented his apartment to a bunch of frat boys who terrorized the neighbours ... but at least for time being , it 's OK to host , and it 's OK to stay with a host . Yay !
Yes , both foreigners and Russian citizens usually need a special permission to enter regions in Russia designated as border zones and Chukotka is one of them . On <URL> , you can along the Finnish border find some of the signs indicating the start of the regulated border zone . This might sound as an odd , paranoid remnant from the communist era , but you will actually find a similar , though not so broad ( up to 3km ) , <URL> , for which you need a special permit to enter as well . The Chukotka government offers a web page in English on the subject <URL> , but the text is somewhat confusing and addresses the ' inviting party ' . The thing is , that to obtain a border zone entry permit , you need a formal ' invitation ' from a subject within the border zone and the government 's information page seem to indicate that the inviting party must apply for the permit on your behalf . Such an ' invitation ' is by the way even required for a regular Russian tourist visa and for tourists in most cases issued by a Russian tourist agency . Even if I ca n't find any tangible information , I would be pretty sure that you need assistance from a Chukotkan tourist agency for them to apply for an entry permit on your behalf . On the web site visitchukotka.com , you can both find a list of <URL> and some details on the <URL> they offer .
The exact limitations of the eVisitor ( subclass 651 ) visa are listed in the " <URL> " act : 651.611 Conditions 8115 , 8201 , 8527 and 8528 must be imposed . The description of these conditions is spelled out in the <URL> section : 8115 The holder must not work in Australia other than by engaging in a business visitor activity . 8201 ( 1 ) While in Australia , the holder must not engage , for more than 3 months , in any studies or training . 8527 The holder must be free from tuberculosis at the time of travel to , and entry into , Australia . 8528 The holder must not have one or more criminal convictions , for which the sentence or sentences ( whether served or not ) are for a total period of 12 months duration or more , at the time of travel to , and entry into , Australia . Therefore you are free to study in Australia under the eVisitor visa , as long as you do n't do it for more than 3 months .
You do n't need to apply for a visa in advance to enter the UK with a Nicaraguan passport , as long as your period of stay is less than six months , <URL> . However , the length of the visa issued on arrival is at the discretion of the immigration official who processes you at border control .
Well until some time in 2014 Australians were still granted 360 day visas on arrival . However at the last election there was a change of government and the new government eventually changed the visa regime to a " 90/180 " type where visitors who qualify are now granted permission to stay for ninety days out of any 180 day period . Much like Schengen , Turkey , etc. .
The Myanmar entry permits granted at Mae Sai/Tachileik are not full-fledged visas : they 're only good for 14 days and do not allow travel elsewhere in Myanmar , and this is enforced by them keeping your passport ! On the upside , they 're granted to anybody with a crisp 10-spot and a pulse , and I suspect that second requirement is optional . Details at <URL> . And it 's a good thing you do have that Thai double-entry visa , since Immigration has recently ( May 2014 ) <URL> . Obviously this only applies to people abusing visas on arrival though , and I 'm kind of curious about what they can realistically do to a busted visa runner returning from Tachileik , as there 's literally no other way out than through Thailand -- probably a toss between a short this-is-your-final-entry stamp , or a spell in Immigration detention before they deport you through Bangkok .
end question
start question
What clothing should I bring to Dubai during February ?
Dubai is the heart of the Middle East , people from all over the world come to Dubai and in a place with this mixture of people you will not face a problem with clothes , simply because many of these tourists are coming from many places with different clothing cultures and many of them just wear whatever they wear at home ! Anyway your profile says that you are from the US , just wear exactly what you wear in the US and you will be fine , such as jeans and shorts . Regarding the weather , daytime it will be warm , night time it might be little cold sometimes so a sweater will help . Regarding dinner it depends what kind of restaurant ( high class , normal , etc ) . Regarding night clubs , many of them have a dress code , so avoid wearing blue jeans . I also suggest that you buy an Arabian dress ( in the UAE they call it Kandoura ) and try it in daytime especially if it was hot , you will like it . It was designed to be worn in the hot areas and the way it was designed helps in cooling the body during hot days . You really should try it .
Lavatories ( airplane toilets ) can be inoperative for many reasons , they could get blocked by someone vomiting in the sink , or by throwing tissues or other objects in either the sink or the toilet seat . Sometimes , when a waste tank is full , or there 's a problem in the sensor of the tank giving a wrong signal , all flushes connected to that tank will not work , this happens in modern aircrafts . If a sink or a flush are not working , the toilet has to be blocked by the crew/maintenance or stuff would be piling up ! For each aircraft type ( usually depending on the passenger load and toilet locations ) , there is a limit of toilets that can be inoperative while airborne before the flight has to land at the nearest airport . This depends on the model and airline 's policy . But a rule of thumb is : half of the toilets in each zone should be operative . Otherwise the flight has to land if this happened during the flight . If the flight is on ground and for example all toilets in business class are inoperative , the plane can take off but no passengers should be in that class . In some airlines , if all the toilets at the front are inoperative , even if there are no passengers , the plane has to land if it 's flying or will not be able to take off if it 's on ground because pilots are only allowed to use toilets in the front .
There are many exchange places , both in airports and in city proper . Technically and officially they all are bank branches , but often it consists of an exchange office only . The airport exchange rates are not the best , though if you are not changing lots of money , probably the price difference will not be worth your time . You can withdraw rubles from ATMs ( and certainly you can pay by card , which is widely possible ; in fact , you will not need much cash ) , unless your bank prohibits this ; check with your bank in advance . Also find out the fees they could charge and the exchange rate they would apply ; you may find the exchange rate quite decent . ( Only beware that exchange rate changes daily or even hourly , so compare exchange rate of bank with current Moscow exchange rate . ) In fact , I do n't know about French card in Russia , but in opposite situation ( Russian card in Europe ) , I often find it to be the best rate to simply pay by card wherever possible , and withdraw from ATM if I need cash .
Apparently , you can only import them if you purchased them in Cuba , and carry them with you . From the <URL> : Can I import or bring Cuban cigars into the U.S. for personal use ? Persons authorized to travel to Cuba may purchase alcohol and tobacco products while in Cuba for personal consumption while there . Authorized travelers may return to the United States with up to $ 100 worth of alcohol or tobacco or a combination of both . Products acquired in Cuba may be in accompanied baggage , for personal use only . Purchasing Cuban-origin cigars and/or Cuban-origin rum or other Cuban-origin alcohol over the internet or while in a third country ( i.e. not Cuba ) remains prohibited . This <URL> who enter the country . A non-U.S. person ( i.e. not a U.S. citizen or resident ) arriving in the United States is authorized to import Cuban-origin merchandise , other than tobacco and alcohol , as accompanied baggage provided the merchandise is not in commercial quantities and not imported for resale . See 31 CFR § 515.569 . If the non-U.S. person is arriving in the United States from a trip that included travel to Cuba , the person also is authorized to import as accompanied baggage alcohol or tobacco products purchased or otherwise acquired in Cuba with a value not to exceed $ 100 for personal use only . See 31 CFR § 515.560 ( c ) ( 3 ) .
tl ; dr It boils down to this : Are you travelling with family/kids ? Do you have a flexible budget ( able to consider more than the cheapest options ) ? Are you easily annoyed or frustrated while travelling ? Do you have onward travel once you have arrived in India ( by road , train , connecting flights , etc. ) ? If the answer to any of the above is YES , I would n't choose a late night flight . ... these flights are prone to unruly passengers , dirty aircraft , and so on . He even mentioned that these flights are called punishment flights by the crew , because no one wants to be on this flight . There is some truth to this . Keep in mind that there are a fair number of Indian labourers in Dubai . This group of people is always looking for the cheapest flights between Dubai and their destination in India . Consider the following factors : Your budget It all depends on what it is that you can afford . If you can afford to fly business class , you will receive good service on almost all airlines . Bear in mind that airlines like Air India will probably have more rowdy passengers in general and you probably do n't want to spend business class fare on such an airline . However , Emirates or Jet Airways will give you good service regardless of the flight times . Your destination It is relatively easy to find a variety of airline options if you are going to a major city like Mumbai , Bangalore or Delhi . However , if you are going to a second tier city like Goa or Pune , your options are limited to Air India and possibly a couple other airlines . Alternate starting points Sharjah airport is the closest international airport to Dubai and the airline that flies out of here is Air Arabia ( budget airline , popular choice among the labour class ) . However , you also have Abu Dhabi which has options like Etihad Airways . This one , like Qatar Airways offers good service - it is something to consider if you have a couple hours to spare and want to visit Abu Dhabi . So my question is : How bad is the situation really and is it worth to avoid these flights and fly other routes , even if these other flights might be a little bit longer or more expensive ? If you are a single traveller , it is easier for you to adapt to noisier and rowdier flights . If you are with family and kids , you probably want to have a more relaxed journey . All in all , I would say that you are better off choosing an airline like Jet Airways or Emirates at a non late night time . If you do n't , it is still just a 3 hour flight . However , if you are not familiar with India and are going there as a tourist , you want to save some energy for what might hit you when you get to India :) If you are not a tourist and are familiar with India , then you are probably used to rowdy people and should have no extra problems . Edit : a matter of perspective After reading the other answer , I feel it important to mention that what some people may think of as unruly and hectic , others may not . It is a matter of perspective . Since the OP mentions that they are originating in Europe , I think it is safe to assume that from a non-Indian tourist 's perspective , passengers on some of these flights tend to come across as relatively abrasive . I can say this out of personal experience - I am a non resident Indian who has lived in Dubai and now in Canada and travels to India once in a while . I find myself losing patience when travelling in India especially after having lived in Canada .
In short , the weather is great , especially towards the end of that period . The hurricane season is over ( it lasts until mid November or so ) , and it 's not extremely hot &amp; humid like it can be in the summer . In Havana , average max temperatures are between 26 and 28 ° C ( 79-82 ° F ) , while average min temperatures are 19-20 ° C ( 66-68 ° F ) . <URL> . March and April are the months with the <URL> in Cuba ; January and February may see a bit more rain , but most of the time the weather is pleasant .
Yes . HiHostels has not one , but two hostels in Dubai . They 're not terribly imaginatively named , but : <URL> <URL> You do n't need to be an HI member to stay there , but you do get a discount if you are one .
If the flush mechanism does n't work Flush manually : In fact in many developing countries or even elsewhere such as out in the bush you can find modern toilets without running water . All you need to do is find a large container , fill at as full as you can manage , and pour it into the bowl . The faster you poor and from the greater height the better . But start slow and low because if you are too aggressive you can cause icky splashing . The mechanism is often easy to fix : Take the lid off the cistern . Be careful if it 's ceramic it will be heavy . You can break it or your toe if you drop it . There is usually a string , wire , or chain connecting some kind of lever , float , and rubber seal . Often this gets caught on something causing the plug not to reach the seal or not to close it fully . Sometimes the string , wire , or chain has come loose from one end and can be reattached without any special tools . Sometimes it can help to bend the arm the float is attached to for fine adjustments if the plug almost reaches the seal but not quite . If the bowl is blocked See if there is a plunger near the toilet or in a cupboard . If your 5-star hotel has a kitchenette and there 's a plunger there but not in the toilet , then maybe throw it away after cleaning up , or at least leave it in the toilet room . If there is no plunger to be found then the " manual flush " method above may be stronger than the built-in flush if you can drop in a lot of water at once from a great enough height without making a mess . This is much safer in " low water " toilets than with the " high water " toilets typically found in North America . Let it soak and come back from time to time when the water level has gone down and flush again . Again be careful with " high water " toilets as in North America - they are notorious for overflowing in such conditions . If you are a man , aim your stream at the obstacle each time you go . This will break it up . These techniques are hampered if you used too much toilet paper . If you are in a country where you do n't know the language , get online and look up the local words for " hardware store " and " plunger " . In my experience the latter can be quite tricky . I was in this situation once in Berlin , found at least half a dozen words for " plunger " , most of which must 've been regional words only known to people in other parts of the German-speaking world ! I also could n't find a hardware store and could n't find a plunger in a discount store . ( Lidl style or 1-euro-shop style ) DO NOT USE DRANO !! Caustic pipe un-blocking products are not intended for use with toilets . They can melt the wax used to seal the ceramic toilet to the pipes . You can create a far worse situation this way . ( Non-caustic products should be fine though . ) If all else fails You can use this situation to work on your problems of finding natural bodily functions embarrassing . Go tell somebody working at the hotel . If it 's a 5-star hotel they specialize in being discreet about far far worse things their guests might do . If you can not bring yourself to overcome this personality defect then you can leave an apology note somewhere the housekeepers will find it before finding the surprise you left them . You can even include a tip . The housekeepers have definitely dealt with this situation and much worse before . If you just leave it they are pretty used to that .
Kids that age are too large for car seats and probably do n't need booster seats . Their parent should bring : books , handheld video games , smartphones , headsets , crossword or similar puzzle books that they enjoy ( and plenty of pens/pencils/etc in case some get dropped or lost ) snacks like granola bars or carrot sticks that they like paper towels/wetwipes chewing gum for the descent a small camera for each child so they can document the heck out of the whole thing - their suitcase in their room just before it 's zipped shut , driving to the airport , the checkin line , etc etc - this makes it start to be fun long before it starts You can bring : earplugs in case the engine noise bothers them , You can also offer them to any nearby passengers who seem upset . wristbands that prevent motion sickness ( they may or may not be placebo , who cares as long as they help ) gravol or the like to help with motion sickness ( and also makes some children sleep ) ( my distinction is that parents should bring things that need to fit the child 's taste or preferences , or cost a lot , and you can bring small things that you pull out of your pocket to help when trouble arises . ) Toys are generally problematic . Anything with small pieces is out because losing a piece will cause more trouble than the toy prevented . Anything throwable is out . In advance , you can give the children a book about planes and airports , or a video , to reassure them about the process . A 6 year old should have no reason to be afraid of flying , but the cure for fear is knowledge , so provide it .
Indonesia uses European-style two-pin round plugs ( ' C ' - type is the most common variant found ) : Voltage is at 220 V 50 Hz ( as opposed to 110 V 60 Hz in US ) . Most modern electronic equipment that has auto-sensing capability should work without needing a voltage converter , you will need a plug adapter though which can buy cheap online . As for Apple products specifically have a look at <URL> .
<URL> ! Try to find a brand that is not in every Ikea store , though :
I suspect your cheapest option would be to find a round-trip that goes to Vietnam via Taiwan , which will be priced competitively with other US-Vietnam flights , then add a stopover in Taiwan on way over , which would typically cost around $ 100 extra ( YMMV ) . Your two options for this would be Taiwanese carrier China Airlines and EVA Air , or if you flip the itinerary and stop over in Vietnam , Vietnam Airlines . As tickets like this are difficult to impossible to book online , I would recommend <URL> and then using a bricks 'n' mortar travel agent to do the actual booking .
When I was last at T3 in Dubai , the terminal did have free wi-fi but it was excruciatingly slow . Boingo hotspots are present in all terminals in Dubai International Airport . <URL> . <URL> : <URL> : For a more long term option , and if you are a frequent traveller , consider purchasing a data stick from your home country that you could use in Dubai . If you travel to Dubai often , consider purchasing a data stick from one of the two ISP 's : <URL> and <URL> .
LTE is ( almost ) everywhere in Japan , I 'm writing this from a mountain resort town while tethered to my iPad . You can get prepaid sim cards at most of the electronics shops , look for " IIJ " on the package . 3000 yen data only is lots for any vacation unless you spend too much time on youtube or video calls . It is possible your home service will work , but you really do n't want to pay the roaming charges . if you want a callable number it 's a bit more difficult , but between email , messaging and audio/video call applications ( Skype , facetime etc ) an actual phone number is less important than it once was . My mobile rings maybe once a month these days , and that 's only because wifey does n't want to buy a smartphone .
I suggest : Eurostar from London to Paris ( 2h30 ) or to Brussels ( 2h00 ) Train to Istanbul ( 47 to 49h ) Train to Tehran ( 66h ) Bus to Bandar-e-Abbas Ferry to Dubaï Train may be faster and more comfortable in Europe . Bus may be faster and more comfortable in Middle-East . Information sites are : Train in Europe : <URL> ( I choose multilingual belgian site ) Turkey : <URL> Iran : <URL>
Yes , you probably should get insurance . <URL> : While medical care in Japan is good , English-speaking physicians and medical facilities that cater to U.S. citizens ' expectations are expensive and not widespread . Japan has a national health insurance system which is available only to those foreigners with long-term visas for Japan . ... Medical caregivers in Japan require payment in full at the time of treatment or concrete proof of ability to pay before they will treat a foreigner who is not a member of the national health insurance plan . So basically , if you 're hit by a bus or have a heart attack or something , you 're going to be stuck with a large bill and could potentially even be denied care . Japanese hospitals tend to be a bit overloaded , every now and then a case of somebody dying after being denied entry to multiple hospitals makes the news , and not having insurance is certainly not going to help . That said , simple doctor 's consultations and the like are quite inexpensive in Japan even if you foot the bill yourself . So I 'd look specifically for basic/catastrophic travel insurance that will cover you in cases of dire need , but has a high deductible/does not cover minor mishaps and thus has a lower premium .
Dubai is the heart of the Middle East , people from all over the world come to Dubai and in a place with this mixture of people you will not face a problem with clothes , simply because many of these tourists are coming from many places with different clothing cultures and many of them just wear whatever they wear at home ! Anyway your profile says that you are from the US , just wear exactly what you wear in the US and you will be fine , such as jeans and shorts . Regarding the weather , daytime it will be warm , night time it might be little cold sometimes so a sweater will help . Regarding dinner it depends what kind of restaurant ( high class , normal , etc ) . Regarding night clubs , many of them have a dress code , so avoid wearing blue jeans . I also suggest that you buy an Arabian dress ( in the UAE they call it Kandoura ) and try it in daytime especially if it was hot , you will like it . It was designed to be worn in the hot areas and the way it was designed helps in cooling the body during hot days . You really should try it .
Normally you being there in plenty of time should ensure you are the first-came , and excess passengers would be put on after the rest of you . However , this is Greyhound we 're talking about , and to further complicate , this is Thanksgiving , the day of the year rules just do n't apply ;) According to <URL> : As the ticket policy suggests , Greyhound does not assign you a seat when you buy a ticket . If you show up at 8 AM for your 8 AM bus , the bus may be full . If you show up at 7:30 AM and the bus line already has 55 people in it , you may not get to ride that bus . If you 're riding for your first time , you will get a good seat on your bus if you arrive an hour ahead of time , and will probably catch it ( unless you need to check bags ) if you arrive fifteen minutes ahead of time . For the expert , how early you show up can be calculated by four variables : ( 1 ) Are you checking bags ? ( 2 ) Is your bus " originating ? " ( 3 ) Is your departure station popular ? ( 4 ) Is the route popular ? If you 're checking bags , you will have to wait in line . Depending on station , you may have to wait in the general ticketing line . At peak times , there can be 30 people in the general ticketing line -- all of which have urgent needs . You do n't have a choice about waiting , so budget 15-30 minutes . An " originating " bus means that your bus will be empty when boarding begins . If your bus is originating , you can show up later , because more seats will be available . If your departure station is popular ( i.e. a large city ) , more people will be in line , so budget another 15 minutes . If the route is popular ( and most are , especially on the weekends and at night ) , you may wish to budget another 15-30 minutes . Your best situation is an originating bus , leaving from small town X , at 10 AM . Your worst situation is a North Hollywood bus originating in Los Angeles , CA going to San Francisco at 10 PM on a Friday night . So given all that , I 'd try and get there as early as you possibly can . Because after all , this is Thanksgiving , and you 'll already be thankful you have a seat ;)
There are two issues that sometimes get confused : What 's allowed on the plane - This is determined by security rules . If a prescription drug is not a liquid that takes you over the liquids limit , then it 's allowed . If it takes you over the limit , it 's generally still allowed as long as you can prove that it was prescribed to you . Prescription drugs in pill form are not a problem at all . What 's allowed into the country / EU - This is determined by customs rules of each individual country . I do n't know the exact EU rules , but I would guess it 's similar to US/Canada rules , where less than 1 month supply of a prescription drug is certainly ok , but for some stronger/psychoactive drugs you need to have proof of prescription . In any case , DO NOT try and hide the fact that it 's Xanax by putting it into another bottle , etc. . Anything like this will just be a red flag for any official , either security or customs . Prescription drugs should be in original packaging , ideally with your name and prescribing doctor 's name / contact info on the packaging .
Traveling is a personal experience and the things you will need really depend on what you want to do . If you are going on holiday where you will be doing a bunch of things , I will pack all the necessary things I need at home and not worry too much about my trip . To cut to the chase , here 's my list of essentials : Shades or sunglasses , do n't forget them . If you are a swimmer or just to want to make yourself wet in a pool , have a pair of your swimming clothes and goggles . A laptop , assuming you do n't want to escape the rat race . Condoms , assuming you are married and want to have sex with your partner without the risk of making her pregnant . A towel , good to have when you are lying somewhere on a beach . Novels or books in general . Will help you enjoy long flights where passengers setting next to you are as grumpy as Donald Trump . Do some research on what to read and what 's new . It all depends on your interest . ( I carry my Kindle all the time ) . A flashlight . Good to have when you are out on a beach at night , or travel to an unknown land where you need to find your way around in the dark . Cash in local currency . And make sure you have some singles . You can do this after you land in your destination . Research the place before you travel . With that , you are making sure about what to do and where to go . Travel documents . Make sure you have them on you at all times . Shit happens , and you never know when . Have both the two and three pin plug adapters for your computer or electronic devices . A multi-adapter might be even better . Make sure you have your chargers in your handbag or backpack . Your credit card . Inform your bank that you are traveling so that they do n't block your card when they see a charge from a place in a far away land . At least that 's what I need to do in the US . A pen and paper . Training clothes and shoes . Most hotels will not let you use their facility in flip-flops . Last but not least , a nice backpack .
end question
start question
What is the best month ( weather and budget wise ) to visit Houston area , Texas ?
I 'm planning on visiting Texas ( Flying to Houston , planning to drive around somewhere between Houston and New Orleans ) from The Netherlands some time soon . We want to do a mini ( = 2 weeks ) roadtrip in and around the Houston area . Well , with this in mind you would want to avoid the summer months . In Houston it can get quite hot and its humid since its right on the coast . The drive to New Orleans ( which I have done as well ) is nice , as you get to go across the bottom of Texas and Louisiana ( on I-10 ) . Its about a 6 hour drive ( depending on the traffic ) . You may even catch a glimpse of a riverboat casino around Beaumont ( the border town to Louisiana ) . However , we are not used to hot and humid weather and would like to avoid really hot weather if possible . So far I have been reading good things about the end of October , beginning of November . ( Good temperature ) Will this be a good time to visit this area ? What about hurricanes or storms ? Do some tourist attractions close during specific months ? Thunderstorms and other severe weather is a spring time phenomenon . I would be surprised if you ran into a tornado warning in October or November , as during these months the weather is getting progressively cooler . This would a good time to visit as you 'd have quite a respite from the heat . The major tourist attractions in Houston have to do with the space program , and these are open during your time frame . I spent a great amount of time in central Texas ; here is what I can tell you : Texas is big . It is the largest of the contiguous states ; ( the largest by area is actually Alaska ) . You can find all kinds of terrain , environment and even weather in Texas . You can easily spend a few weeks and still not explore everything there is to see . It gets hot in the summer time . You are looking at temperatures around 45C during the day . At night it cools down a bit . The really humid part of Texas is in the south near Houston / San Antonio . If its not hot , then you have to worry about severe weather ( tornadoes ) and thunderstorms . They are rarely as bad as what the movies show . The midwest is also known as tornado alley . In my opinion : July - August ( hot + humid ) September - November ( best time in my opinion , very nice mild weather , and it gets pleasantly cool at night ) December - Jan ( avoid , it can get cold during these months ) . Late Feb - Mid-march ( great time to visit , lots of sporting events and great weather ) . Budget wise , Texas is actually quite affordable . The main metropolitan areas ( Dallas , Austin , Houston ) have similar price structures as any other major city . However , taxes are quite forgiving . My personal favorite city is Austin because I am a fan of live music and you can always find live music in the clubs/bars . It is known as the " Live Music Capital of the World " . Try to stay in the outskirts as accommodation within the city limits can get quite expensive .
From your question and your comment I understand you want to stay in a town in La Alpujarra and use this town as " headquarters " to visit this area . Unfortunatelly there is no such town , due the Alpujarra is too big to go walking from any town to others . You can use the GR7 ( red line ) to go from most towns to others in La Alpujarra . Have you considered the option of walk the GR7 from Lanjaron to Nevada in two or three journeys ? If you need to stay in a town , I 'd recommend Trevelez , first because is the most attractive town in La Alpujarra and second because it has many interesting paths nearby . Also , it could be interesting the <URL> site .
If you are interested in meeting people I would definitely suggest Couchsurfing . As an Iranian I can assure you they 'd love to provide host , specially to foreigners . You can find many CouchSurfers in big cities . Here is just a sample search for <URL> . Unfortunately , in Iran there are not ( yet ) many good hostels as you can find in Europe . And you should n't expect to see an international environment in the hostels there either . Maybe in close future but not yet . Also TripAdvisor has a great database of comments for hotels and restaurants . An an example I give you a list of restaurants and hotels in Tehran sorted by their rankings ( A restaurant is always a good place to meet/communicate with Iranians ) : Tehran hotels : <URL> Tehran restaurants : <URL> Enjoy your trip to Iran EDIT Seems like there have been changes since my original answer and recently more qualified hostels have been giving service to tourists ! I 'll gradually add other suggested hostels here ( list is sorted by date ) . - Seven Hostels : Location : Tehran Seems fairly good ( at least in the photos ! ) . Website : <URL> - Tehran Hostel : Location : Tehran ( obviously !? ) - GPS coordinates : 35.715353,51.470853 ( Close to the Sabalan metro station and BRT bus line ) ( Recommended by many travellers ( <URL> ) ! ) Website : <URL>
The following route is cheaper , but not all that much , and it 's not possible in a day . Bus from Taipei to Keelung , NT$ 55 ( < US$ 2 ) , every 10 min Ferry from Keelung to Matsu , NT$ 620 ( ~ US$ 21 ) in economy , daily except Wed , overnight ( dep 21:50 , arr 08:30 ) Ferry from Matsu to Fuzhou ( Mawei ) , NT$ 1300 ( ~ US$ 43 ) , daily at 2pm , ~ 2 hours Train from Fuzhou to Shenzhen , US$ 23 in hard seat , dep 21:25 arr 16:00 next day Total price ~ US$ 85 , but time required close to 48 hours . Note that you can substitute both Taipei-Matsu and Fuzhou-Shenzhen with flights , or travel Fuzhou-Shenzhen on faster trains , but that 'll eat up any price advantage ( eg . FOC-SZN for CNY 480/US $ 80 for random dates in March ) . Ferry prices and schedules courtesy of <URL> , trains by <URL> .
Have you tried <URL> . <URL> but not even in the range of <URL> or <URL> . You can also see the virtual tour of the tower and the views on their website as well . <URL> though pretty gruesome .
In short , the weather is great , especially towards the end of that period . The hurricane season is over ( it lasts until mid November or so ) , and it 's not extremely hot &amp; humid like it can be in the summer . In Havana , average max temperatures are between 26 and 28 ° C ( 79-82 ° F ) , while average min temperatures are 19-20 ° C ( 66-68 ° F ) . <URL> . March and April are the months with the <URL> in Cuba ; January and February may see a bit more rain , but most of the time the weather is pleasant .
Michael gave you some pretty common destination so I 'm going to add some less touristy but awesome places around Milan . Since I love lakes I would suggest you a visit around the many lakes you can find in the area , Lake Garda being probably the most famous one . <URL> What to do <URL> It is where the Italian writer Gabriele d'Annunzio lived after his defenestration in 1922 until his death in 1938 . The estate consists of the residence of d'Annunzio called the Prioria ( priory ) , an amphitheatre , the light cruiser Puglia set into a hillside , a boathouse containing the MAS vessel used by D'Annunzio in 1918 and a circular mausoleum . <URL> and <URL> <URL> is surely worth a visit among with <URL> . <URL> Verona is a pretty nice and small city which was awarded the World Heritage Site . The city itself is beautiful and there 's the famous amphitheatre and well . . the balcony of Juliet , of course , among many others thing you may want to visit . One option you may consider is to stay somewhere in Verona or Desenzano and then do day trips to the places I listed ( or others you have found yourself ) . You may also consider to ride a bike so you wo n't be bus-bounded ( even tho the bus system in that area works pretty well ) . <URL> is the official site for trains schedule . Milano - Verona is about 1h 20mins and it runs pretty frequently . A ticket is around 20 $ . The area around <URL> is also very beautiful and closer . Honestly , tho , If you have never been to <URL> , I would spend the five days there since five days are perfect to really start to get to know the city , not just the most crowded touristy places . If you are lucky you can find hostels for about 20 $ / night but you better book in advance . After visiting the most famous places just roam around the city and get lost , go to Castello , Dorsoduro , sestieri where people hang out the clothes outside ( well , probably not with these weather :) ) far from all the tourists . Venice is also pretty safe so roaming around night ( less tourists as a bonus ) it 's highly recommended . Do n't be afraid to get lost in those small calli , it 's totally awesome . I love to just walk and look around and Venice is a good place to practice this degeneration but I do n't know if it 's the same for you . If you are more for a quick visit to the touristy places than you may want to stay in Venice two to three days and then move somewhere else . If you are on a tight budget you may want to consider grab some food at the grocery store instead of going to the restaurant ( eating something reasonably good for a reasonable price in Venice it 's very difficult ) . Grocery stores that I know are : <URL> <URL> ( in Italian but pretty easy to figure out the address ) Local dishes you may want to try are : <URL> Cotoletta alla milanese ( milanese after its place of origin , Milan ) is a fried cutlet similar to Wiener schnitzel , but cooked " bone-in " . It is fried in clarified butter or olive oil [ 1 ] and traditionally uses exclusively milk-fed veal . <URL> Risotto alla milanese is made with beef stock , beef bone marrow , lard ( instead of butter ) and cheese , flavored and colored with saffron . <URL> <URL>
There is absolutely no reason to need to pretend to be Christian while visiting the US . The US does n't have an official religion and is a very diverse nation where people travel often . It is also a very large nation , and unfortunately some people do commit crimes against people for their religion/lack of religion . This is like any other diverse nation . There 's no issue with being a secular teenager in America , unless you actively argue with those who have different beliefs than yours . ( And if you do actively argue , you do n't typically have threats of violence or anything ; its just the people of the majority belief may not want to be friends with you ) . In the United States in <URL> , a nation of 300 + million people had 1376 hate crimes with a religious bias ; the majority being anti-Jewish ( 70 % ) , anti-Islamic ( 9.3 % ) . Only 0.7 % were anti-atheism/agnostic . Also , while I could n't find data that broke down by victim-group by type of crime ( so this also includes hate crimes committed against other races , sexual orientations ) , a large majority of the hate crimes are vandalism/property-destruction/intimidation ( 63 % ) and adding in simple assault ( assault without intent of injury ) and other property crimes you cover ( ~ 90 % ) of hate crimes . The other 10 % is mostly aggravated assault with the addition of about 17 ( 0.2 % ) that were murders or rapes ; and many of these are possibly based on racial or sexual orientation motivation . Note the number of <URL> is similar ( 1621 religion hate crimes ) , despite having 1/5th the population of the US . When meeting strangers it is best not to deliberately insult/mock/convert them from their own religious/political/other beliefs -- this is regardless of where you are traveling . People often get upset when their beliefs are mocked , but again this turning into assault or worse is extremely rare . However , if your waitress says " God Bless " or something and you mock her for believing in an imaginary being in the sky ( rather than just ignore it ) , I would n't be surprised if you get worse service . Also , note only about ~ 20 % of Americans actually go to church/synogogue/mosque every week , though ~ 40 % will report <URL> . While politicians do pay lip service to God/Christianity in US politics more than in some other nations ( e.g. , European nations ) , its mostly playing politics . When <URL> about 75 % of Americans self-identify as Christian ( 25 % Catholic , 16 % Baptist , 8 % Methodist , ... ) , about 5 % are Jewish or Buddhist or Muslim or other religion , 15 % reply no religion , and 5 % refuse to answer .
While Ivan 's answer is the most economical option , I disagree that there 's not a shuttle . For inexperienced travellers who may not speak the language , there ARE taxis from both airports as well . There is also a shuttle/bus company called Manuel Tienda León . I used them . For 45-50 ARS , they 'll take you to the city to just near Retiro ( the main bus station and a metro station ) , and for 5 ARS extra , you can get dropped at your hostel/hotel . To me this was the best deal after a crazy long flight from Europe with delays , versus having to negotiate with local buses and being unwilling to pay for taxis . Even now , with my improved Spanish skills , I 'd probably still go for the shuttle option if arriving on my own by plane . No need to pre-arrange though , they 're right as you enter the terminal , and you do n't have to wait more than 15 minutes for a shuttle .
The ferry is essentially the only means of transport that was n't completely overloaded the last time . BART runs a few extra private buses , enough to accommodate 1 % of the 400,000 daily riders . And it 's only in the commute direction . Unfortunately , the Transbay tube is so efficient and so fast that there are n't a lot of good options from other transit providers . Perhaps the best option if the ferry is n't convenient is the " slug lines , " also known as <URL> . People who are traveling solo take on a few extra passengers to get the discount on the Bay Bridge . Obviously , you have to sit in traffic on the bridge , but the price is right . It sounds sketchy but is apparently very safe . As far as getting to the airport , you 're basically out of luck . You can take <URL> from <URL> and get off at the Millbrae station . That still leaves you 2.5 miles from the airport , but you should be able to get a cab from there , or walk if you 're up for it ( the bayfront area by the airport is pretty nice to walk along , but getting there is a slog from the Caltrain station ) . Also , Caltrain does n't run as often or as early as BART . Rental cars are n't cheap , but it may be worth making a refundable reservation in case you need it , and canceling before the deadline if the strike is called off .
Yes , there is a code for the Bay Area : QSF , which covers SFO , OAK and SJC . These are called " Metropolitan area airport codes " , and <URL> . However , there 's an important caveat : unlike " NYC " , this particular code is not actually an IATA code , it 's just convenient shorthand for some airline booking systems ( GDS ) . " QSF " will thus work on Sabre and ITA , but not other systems , where " QSF " may also be an obscure airport in Algeria . Wikipedia has a ( partial ) list of bona fide <URL> .
Daytime temperatures are around 10-20 ° C which seems good for hiking ( up to 23 ° C in Tetovo ) . Nighttime temperatures can drop down to 0-5 ° C . You could get some rain and thunderstorms during a day but also few sunny days in a row ... If you go hiking for a week in April/May , you are pretty likely to get 1 to 3 days with some rain . Temperatures source : <URL>
Alaska is indeed the easternmost , northernmost , and westernmost in all of the USA . General assumption of one state being both easternmost &amp; westernmost in a country is that the state being spanning across the country . But it 's not the case with Alaska , below is the explanation from the website <URL> As far as the most western state , note how Alaska 's Aleutian Islands stretch right up to the edge of the Western Hemisphere at the 180º line of Longitude , thus the most western state in the country . Alaska is also the answer for eastern , as the Aleutian Islands stretch across the 180º line of Longitude , into the Eastern Hemisphere , and up the edge of the Russian Federation . I 'm searching to get these three points &amp; their co-ordinates . I 'll update once I get them . Update : Co-ordinates of three extreme points as per <URL> - Northernmost : Point Barrow , Alaska 71 ° 23 ' 20 " N 156 ° 28 ' 45 " W Easternmost : Pochnoi Point , Semisopochnoi Island , Alaska 51 ° 57 ' 42 " N 179 ° 46 ' 23 " E Westernmost : Amatignak Island , Alaska 51 ° 16 ' 7 " N 179 ° 8 ' 55 " W
Coaches The <URL> carries plenty of information on the topic , including : Coach operators Most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland are provided by Scottish Citylink , Stagecoach , Megabus and National Express offering most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland , including a connecting service between the country 's two biggest cities , Edinburgh and Glasgow . Tickets for these services can be bought in advance by phone , online , in stations and often on board . For busy routes and travel at peak times , such as weekends or national holidays , it 's a good idea to book as early as possible to guarantee a seat . It 's worthy to note that there exist various discount cards for coaches , namely the <URL> and the <URL> . Quoting from the aforementioned Visit Scotland page : Discount fare options If you plan to do a lot of travelling by coach , it may be worth buying an Explorer Pass , which offers unlimited travel on Scottish Citylink network or the megarider tickets offered by Stagecoach , which provide unlimited travel within certain areas . Car Sharing Car sharing is obviously an option too . <URL> for example operates in the UK . You might want to check it out . Trains Train tickets are generally expensive in the UK , unless you have a discount card . I do n't know of your age group qualifies for one , but <URL> allow for many interesting discounts . Should n't you fit the age group , despair not . As starplusplus usefully mentions , the <URL> allows discounted fares for two people traveling together . Seems to fit your case perfectly . Ticket prices may vary a lot depending on the departure time . For some lines , there are multiple train companies offering various times and prices .
I do like to push them - once again , if you 're really stuck and do n't know where to look , consider <URL> . I 'm not affiliated , although I do compete on there as one of their ' experts ' . Basically they have a bunch of ' experts ' that compete to find you the best price . With what may work best as an open-jawed flight or a double-return ( Japan - > Mexico return , Mexico - > Venezuela return ) will be investigated by people on there . It 's not a free service , but if you do want to use it , check out my profile on here for a discount link . Alternatively sites like <URL> and <URL> are a good start if you want to do all the grunt work yourself .
I would recommend summer . The weather is warm but not too hot , less than in Italy or Japan . See this minimum/maximum graph in <URL> ( in Celsius , 25 ° C = 77 ° F ) : During summer touristic places are open everywhere , even in the South , the warmer the better . During summer people working in Paris leave for the South , but Paris still has a lot of activities , even more than during other seasons . Most festivals happen during summer , especially countryside ones ( <URL> ) . Other seasons can be rainy but summer usually is not . See the low rain stats during July/August :
In the Schengen area , the relevant distinction is between flights to non-Schengen destinations and flights to Schengen destinations . If you have two stops in the area , your journey includes a flight between Schengen destinations and you will need to go through the " external border " checkpoint to catch that flight . There will be no passport check at the second airport and once you have crossed the border at the first airport , there is nothing stopping you from leaving , which is why transit privileges do not apply . Whether the next destination is in the same country or in another Schengen country does not make a difference and your UK visa and all the other rules and regulations regarding transit are not relevant in this situation either . As an Indian citizen , it means that you do need a type C Schengen visa ( and not merely an " airport transit visa " ) . See also <URL> for a full explanation of the rules .
This <URL> . The growing season ( summer ) in Iceland is two months long . The tail ends of the summer are the low points , which means early June and late August . Things begin closing down in September . By Christmas , all sorts of things are closed , all though from time to time the industry tries to bring tourists to Iceland for Christmas . Flying to Iceland around Christmas time is n't cheaper -- avoid the major holidays to save money . I was there for spring break . It was pretty darn cold . There were enough things going to keep busy . The swimming pools are so warm you pretty much can go swimming no matter how cold it is . You can see the northern lights from September to March .
There 's no single answer to questions like this , as they depend on what your future travel plans are going to be . For example , 1 United Airlines mile is worth less than 1 cent if you use it to buy a Gift card , 1-3 cents if you use it for many economy domestic flights , or as much as 10 cents or more for some itineraries such as international first class . That 's a factor of over 10 times , depending on what you use the points for ! Specific to Best Western points , unfortunately they are not the best in the industry . You 'll earn 10 points per dollar , but redeeming for a free night will cost anywhere between 8,000 and 36,000 points - so that means you 'll need to spend $ 800 to $ 3,600 to get a single free night . If you instead decide to credit to your airline frequent flyer program , most of their earn rates are per STAY , not per night or per dollar . This can work out well for a single-night stay , but not for a 7 night stay like you 've got as you only get the same number of miles as you would for a single night ! Best Western do allow you to move points to an airline after the fact which will give better rates for a longer stay , but they are done in " lots " of 5000 points ( which turns into 1000 airline mines ) , so if you 've got 9,999 points you can only transfer 5000 of them . 5000 points = 1000 miles , which based on the math above is worth somewhere between $ 10 and $ 100 - depending on how you end up spending them !
TL ; DR : Yes . The Northern Territory is huge , and spans a range of climates from sopping-wet tropical to bone-dry desert . The <URL> ( Dec 2015 ) are primarily around the Daly River/Waters region , several hundred kilometers south of Darwin , and both Darwin itself and the tourist hubs of Alice Springs and Uluru ( Ayers Rock ) , over 1000 km to the south , are entirely unaffected . All three have direct flights from Sydney . All that said , it 's <URL> right now in NT , meaning the tropical bits get a lot of rain even when it 's not outright flooding . Down at Uluru though , it 's summer and thus very dry and hot .
end question
start question
Frankfurt Card 1-Day Ticket - 24hrs or 00:00 -23:59 ?
You can find the answer in the website you linked : The one-day card is valid on the date inscribed until the end of operating hours , the two-day card is valid on the day inscribed and the following day until the end of operating hours . In your case you need a two-day card .
The state run transport company , <URL> has very good well maintained a/c buses to Goa from Bangalore . You can check the availability and book tickets online from their website . Make sure to select service class as ' Premium ' to get a/c buses in your search results . Since Goa being a well known tourist place and April-June is summer vacation , it is advisable to book tickets in advance . Or plan your journey on week days .
You can find the answer in the website you linked : The one-day card is valid on the date inscribed until the end of operating hours , the two-day card is valid on the day inscribed and the following day until the end of operating hours . In your case you need a two-day card .
If you arrive at Terminal 1 on a through ticket , or have checked your luggage to final destination , or are travelling with hand luggage only , you should be able to do an airside transfer from terminal 1 . Terminal 5 is only for security checks for departing passengers and after passing security , all airside facilities actually exist at Terminal 3 , including departure gates , shops and airline lounges . This is the relevant information for <URL> . Note that there is no mention of Terminal 5 since the departures will be from the Terminal 3 G &amp; H gates . Here is a <URL> on Flyertalk which sounds similar to your situation , i.e. arriving on a domestic Alitalia flight and transferring to a flight to the USA . If you do need to collect luggage at Terminal 1 , you would exit landside and take relatively short walk to Terminal 3 , although there are additional shuttle buses that circulate from the long term parking areas to the terminals that you could take from Terminal 1 to Terminal 3 if walking is a problem .
There are things I would try doing and there are the others . Attempting to enter Russia before my visa is valid ( or attempt to overstay my Russian visa ) even if by a few hours only clearly belongs to the others . The visa is valid from a minute before 00:01 of its first validity date and until a minute after 23:59 of its last validity date . Entering the country earlier ( even two hours ) is illegal entrance . While the Finnish conductors and even the passport/toll people often seem rather nice ( and I have heard one joke around with the passengers ) , the same can not be said for the Russian ones . I perceive them as people I would not want to cross . Even if the Russian border personnel does not board until Vyborg ( Viipuri ) , they will know that the train entered their country at 22:00 and that you need a valid visa for today if you are on that train . On an unrelated note : I read it on VR 's ( Finnish state railway 's ) website ( but ca n't find it anymore ) that if you intend to travel with Tolstoi , the night train from Moscow , you must make sure that your visa is valid for an ' additional ' day , since the train does not cross the border until well after midnight . So : No , just no . If your visa is valid from day X , do not enter Russia until day X.
It means that the flight arrives next day . For example if the flight departs on 22:00 , 20th of AUG and arrives on 05:00 , 21st of AUG , then the will be shown to indicate that the arrival is next day . This usually happens in eastbound flights . Also , the other way around is true . A can be seen in flights that arrive in the previous day ! such as flights from Tokyo ( TYO ) to Los Angeles ( LAX ) .
There are many old ( ish ) monumental churches all over Western Europe , here are a few options ( based mostly on architecture as I do n't know anything about organs ) : Cologne is certainly well-known and well worth it and it 's also easy to reach by train ( high speed link to Frankfurt , the cathedral is in front of the main train station ) . Mainz , Worms ( technically not a cathedral anymore ) and Speyer are close to Frankfurt ( although the train wo n't get you there much faster than to Cologne ) . The cathedral in Speyer in particular is well-known and , like the one in Cologne , part of UNESCO world heritage . Architecturally , it 's a Romanesque building so an interesting contrast to the Cologne cathedral . The cathedral in Trier also has the same distinction but it 's a bit further away . Aachen is also further away ( 2.5 to 3 hours from Frankfurt by train ) but I personally found the Dom very interesting . It 's very old and quite unique compared to other European churches . There are many less famous old churches closer to Frankfurt . The cathedrals in Limburg and Fulda or the St.-Marienkirche in Marburg could for example be interesting ( as I said , I do n't know much about organs but the last one seems to have a notable one ) . There are many other interesting churches in Bavaria ( Ulm , Bamberg , Passau for the organ ... ) or Eastern Germany ( Naumburg , Magdeburg , Dreden ... ) but that might be a bit too far for you .
Rent a ( Solo ) Music Studio Since you mention the need to be alone , a dedicated music studio comes to mind . A quick google search revealed <URL> and <URL> . Both of these offer small solo studios for something around 6-7 per hour , during both weekdays ( off-peak and peak hours ) and weekends . Whether this is considered as cheap is up to you to . :) There must be more music studios available for rental out there . These are just two examples . To find more you might want to try querying your favourite search engine for salle de musique and/or studio de répétition ( French for music studio ) . Parks and Kiosques If you decide one day that you want to see something else other than soundproofing foam in Paris , you could head to any park , set up your gear on the grass and go nuts . Indeed it is not uncommon to see random art performers rehearsing in the Parisian parks . <URL> Moreover some parks have dedicated music gazebos ( kiosques in French ) with great acoustics . These are usually free to use . Note that from May to October some kiosques will be taken by <URL> , <URL> . If you wish to use the kiosques you 'll want to coordinate yourself with these events . <URL> Below is a picture of the kiosque at the Parc du square Necker : Le kiosque à musique du square Necker , <URL> , Fair use Park Regulations and Musical Instruments Note that is is technically forbidden to make noise and disturb other park users , as per <URL> . Moreover these explicitly mention noise arising from playing instruments : Sont interdits les bruits gênants par leur intensité , leur durée , leur fréquence ou leur caractère agressif , en particuliers ceux produits par les instruments de musique et de percussion et par la diffusion de musique amplifiée , sauf dérogation . Whilst this does indeed mean that you need to ask the Mairie de Paris for authorisation to play an instrument in the park , in my humble opinion you should be able to play freely so long as you do n't disturb others around you . Whether violin music is a nuisance due to its intensity , duration , frequency or aggressive character ( translating the afore-mentioned rules ) is up for discussion . In any case , keep in mind that you are doing something forbidden and that therefore people might ask you to move or stop .
Sloterdijk was a village out of Amsterdam but has now been gulped up by the city and is part of it . Just like the villages around London are part of Greater London . It is within the city bus system area and on those buses you can use the travel passes for the city . And depending on where you want to be in Amsterdam , the bus might well be faster than going by train and take a bus from the Central station . The <URL> will tell you door to door , your hotel to wherever you want to go , how to get there . You can even set it to ' no train ' to get that out of the results . When you arrive you can ask whether there still is a bus pass that allows travel on the NS trains ( national railways ) within the Amsterdam area . I will look further and update if I do find one . An OV chip seems a good investment but you need to realize that at the start of any train travel you need to have $ 20 on it , even for just a $ 2.20 ' within the city ' run . And it has to be a different OV chip for each of you , so as a couple you can be left with about $ 35 on your cards . Officially you can get a refund for that money , but it takes time and effort and you will always lose some money . The Amsterdam tourist information office site has a <URL> and non of them includes the train within Amsterdam , apart from the ' Schiphol return ' which you already found . An <URL> mentions renting a bicycle , which might suit you . It is cheaper than three bus or tram tickets per day , but it does include some effort . Riding is safe and helmets are not used by those using utility bikes as rentals mostly are . Dutch cyclist do only use helmets when going high speed or off road , as a rule , that means that if you want to rent a bike and peddle on the bike lanes , you can do so without helmets , which makes bike rental much easier for tourists . Helmets are not only not mandatory , they are also not often used .
You will have to go through passport control as you are exiting the Schengen zone . This in and of itself can easily soak up the 1:40 that you have available to you . Not to mention the time it takes to cover the distance from gates A - > Terminal Lobby - > Passport Control - > C - > Gate 15 Now the good news is that everyone at the airport will know which flights are departing and you will most likely be put on a priority queue if there is a long line at immigration ( this is really , your only real cause of concern ) . Your luggage will be transferred automatically , as you are on one ticket . Personally , 1:40 is a bit tight for my liking - but as the airline has booked you the itinerary , it is their responsibility to make sure you reach your destination . Lets assume the worse case scenario that your flight is delayed in-bound , and there is a long queue at immigration , and by the time you clear all that and find your way to the gate , the flight has departed . Before any of that happens though : You 'll notice people running around yelling the flight number and destination of your flight . You 'll see someone that is minding the queue at immigration , and they will be calling for people with flights close to departure . Your name may be called as well . Once the flight has departed : a. Lufthansa will arrange to put you on the next available flight . b. Depending on how long the delay is to your next flight ; you may be provided compensation . So , the worse that will happen is that you will be bumped to a later flight along with some compensation .
Even if flexible return tickets are more expensive , it could be cheaper than two One-Way tickets , due to the way how airlines calculate their OW fares . You could also try to get a good fare which is not completely restricted ( e.g. changing the date for a fee like 100 $ ) , which could still be cheaper than flexible ones , even if you add the fee .
Congratulations ! Your visa will not be extended without you applying at a consulate . However if you supply the proper documentation to the international students ' office at your university they will extend your I-20 , thereby giving you legal status to remain in the country . If your visa has expired and you leave the US ( to a place other than Canada or Mexico ) you will require a new visa to re-enter and pursue your Masters . If you choose to join another university , the same thing applies - they will issue you an I-20 which will give you legal status in the country . You can remain in the country with an <URL> A new visa is not required unless yours is expired and you exit and re-enter . You can apply for a new visa with the new , current I-20 . Also see <URL>
The ones I 've seen work on a scratch-off method and <URL> , so I think you 'd be lining up to show it to the guy in the booth . Day Passes are printed on card paper ; Weekly Passes and Metropasses have a magnetic strip for automatic turnstiles and so , like tokens , work at all subway/RT station entrances whether staffed or not . On surface vehicles , the pass is simply shown to the driver .
Assuming that Adria Airways closes boarding as usual 20-30 minutes prior to departure and you do check-in in advance , you have 45-55 minutes left for security clearance and finding the gate , what usually is more than enough time at Frankfurt Airport . You 'd also be fine if the train is 10 or 15 minutes delayed .
Although I have not found an official statement yet , many people on the Web insist that empirically there is no expiration . <URL> Can I get a refund for the remaining balance ? T-Money cards have no expiration date and the unused balance will remain on your card until the entire amount is used up . You can receive a refund for the balance on your card at convenience stores like GS25 that charges KRW 500 ( RM 1.43 ) fee and the card price of KRW 2,500 is not refundable . <URL> Or , you can just keep the T-money and the money on it for the next time you come to Korea because it NEVER expires !! <URL> My sister lives in China , and her T-money card from 4 years ago still worked . So for the time being let me make this question resolved as it has no expiration .
This is where you want to go . <URL> booth located in the middle of Times Square will give a discount up to 50 % on the shows currently playing on Broadway . Although I have to warn you that more popular shows and popular times are likely not to be available . What time do you need to get there will depend on the time of the show you want to see and the day of the week . Fridays and the Weekend tend to be the most popular .
It 's less hassle because it 's just a ticket and some paperwork , instead of a potential court appearance . If they are kind to you , you may appreciate it and be less angry as well , not taking it out on them if they 're doing you a ' favour ' . And then they write up a ticket , probably record it back at the station , and that 's the job done . If it 's a court appearance , they 'll have to file additional paperwork , probably show up to testify , and they could instead be out on the street looking for more offenders . So it benefits everyone in someways ( although some would argue you 're letting someone off of a crime ) to reduce the level of the offence , and give you a stern warning and a ticket . They 're more likely to do it if you do n't have a record , of course - if it 's your third this week , they might decide it 's time to take it to another level ( ie court ) .
York is a difficult place for the motorist at any time . For the obvious historical reasons the city centre is not geared up for anything but light-to-reasonable traffic but does have a linked series of single-carriageway roads circumnavigating the Roman Walls to help motorists avoid traversing the city centre itself . A few miles further out you have an outer ring road which is dual carriageway on the South and Eastern sides ( A64 ) , and single-lane on the West and Northern sides . Parking is severely restricted in the centre although there are a few small car parks if you wish to gamble on driving to the centre and finding a space . York counteracts this by having 5 or 6 Park and Rides ( <URL> ) dotted around the outer ring road , with judicious use of bus lanes to move visitors and workers into the city centre reasonably efficiently and as York is n't a huge city it 's a fairly quick journey . During the week you have office workers and tourists ; at weekends you have shoppers and tourists . The differential between traffic levels between the two is minimal , in my experience . York is generally busy traffic-wise whichever day of the week you would choose to go .
The easy , safe and cheap option is train station lockers , which can be found at all major train stations in Tokyo ( and Japan ) . Japanese lockers are usually narrow but deep , so while hard plastic suitcases will not fit into them , backpacks are generally not a problem . Some larger stations ( eg . Tokyo stn ) also have manned left luggage counters ( 手荷物預かり所 nimotsu-azukari-dokoro ) , which can handle any size of bag and only cost a bit more than lockers . On station maps , these are usually shown with a " bag-and-key " icon , while lockers are " bag-in-box-with-key " . Which one to recommend , though , is going to depend on what you were going to do during your day in Tokyo and how you 're planning to get around . If you 're planning on exploring around Shibuya or Shinjuku , I 'd take the Keikyu railway from Haneda and leave the bag at Shinagawa . Shibuya and Shinjuku are a few stops away on the Yamanote line , and you can continue to Narita directly on the JR Narita Express ( N'EX ) . Alternatively , you can transfer from Shinagawa to Shibuya/Shinjuku with your bag , leave it at either station , and then take the N'EX . If you 're planning on exploring around Ueno and Asakusa , I 'd take the monorail to Hamamatsucho , connect to Yamanote , and leave the bag at Ueno . Ueno Park is walking distance , Asakusa is a few stops away on the Ginza Line , and you can continue to Narita directly on the Keisei Skyliner ( premium ) or Sky Access Limited Express ( cheaper , slower ) . You can also take the Keikyu line via Shinagawa directly to Asakusa , but this takes approximately forever and may require a transfer along the way . I probably would not recommend Tokyo station : it 's huge , remarkably confusing , not terribly close to anything interesting ( although naturally it 's well connected to the entire city ) , and not super easy to get to from Haneda . That said , there are <URL> from Tokyo stn to Narita , so if you 're really pinching pennies it might be worth hassle . One tip : when you do leave your bag , pay careful attention to where the locker is and how you got there , these are all massive stations and ( voice of experience ) it 's no fun running around trying to figure out where the hell you left it ...
From my station , a Super Off-Peak Day return is # 17.80 . Including a Travelcard makes it # 23.30 ( an increase of # 5.50 , to save you working that out ) . A one-day price-cap on Oyster is # 6.40 for Zone 1 and more for other zones . If you are actually travelling into London and out to Zone 6 on your paper train ticket , then the daily cap on Oyster for that usage is # 11.70 . <URL> Contactless payments also appear to have the daily cap . It 's on a per-card basis , though , so you need to make sure that you always use the same one . Using contactless cards means you do n't have to pay to get an Oyster card . But using contactless does also mean that you do n't get the benefit of a National Rail railcard , which can be loaded on to Oyster to reduce off-peak fares ( as well as reduce rail fares ) . To get an Oyster card , you need to pay a deposit . This is one-off and returnable , so may not be worth including in the calculations . It 's not easy to find <URL> ; it 's # 5 . You 'll also need to top it up with some money . None of it expires , though , and you get its current holding back with the deposit when you return the card . It 's possible that even with the built-in Travelcard you 're actually paying too much . My rail company adds # 5.50 , but two bus journeys only come to # 3 on Oyster . The bottom line : Whether you should use Oyster depends on how much of an increase there is between an ordinary bog-standard return and one with a built-in Travelcard on top , and whether that 's cheaper than the capped Oyster fares for the journeys you 're making .
end question
start question
Travel agents - can they match ITA Travel Matrix prices ?
ITA uses " published " fares , so any travel agent should be able to book them . However , make sure that you 've correctly set the " Sales city " to be a city in the country where you will be buying the ticket , as ticket prices can vary depending on where you purchase them . So if you set the sale city to be SFO , it 's possible that an Australian travel agency will not be able to sell the ticket at the same price . It 's also helpful to give the section that is headed : " Fare construction ( can be useful to travel agents ) " to the travel agent . This will show how the fare has been " priced " , and whilst it 's not needed for simple itineraries , it can help for more complex ones where the trip is potentially being booked as 2 or more separate fares . There are a few exceptions to the above , but they will generally be rare . eg , in some cases travel agents may choose not to sell a particular fare if they believe that certain components are not being priced correctly - for example , if the fuel surcharge is n't being correctly calculated , as it 's possible for the airline to bill them for that after the fact . However these situations are extremely rare .
I will readily presume your family is OK with this idea . It is not our place to speculate on that . Despite what @GayotFow indicates I ca n't find any gender specific information . The only airline flying London-Islamabad direct , Pakistan Airlines <URL> says : 7.7.1 You will not be accepted for carriage if you are under 5 years of age on the date the flight commences unless you are accompanied by an escort aged 18 years or more . If you are between 5 and 16 years of age , we can arrange for an escort , provided we receive 7 Days or more notice prior to travel and an extra charge is paid . Nothing else in the CoC is about this age range , 7.7.2 only applies to 5-12 year olds . I would strongly recommend to arrange such an escort . If something goes sideways , you do n't want a 13 year old to deal with it alone . Another airline which specifically mentions Pakistan is <URL> but only in regards of being a short haul flight for them , no gender specific restriction . In general , without knowing the specific airline , the above is typical : above 12 the UAM service is optional but strongly recommended .
Yes , NSB offers ' minipris ' tickets starting as low as 249 NOK ( about 27 $ ) for any distance on the Norwegian railway network . They can be bought up to 90 days in advance , are only valid for the booked train and can not be changed or refunded . There are usually only a few tickets available in the cheapest allotment on each train and then the price increases based on demand . This is basically the same concept as ' advanced saver fare ' in the UK or ' Sparpreis ' tickets in Germany . Full fare tickets ( 865 NOK from Oslo to Bergen ) can be refunded without charge up to 24 hours before departure . If you are flying to Oslo Lufthavn and continue more or less immediately by train to Bergen , it might for some strange reason be cheaper to buy a through ticket from the airport to Bergen via Oslo S than just from Oslo S ( central station ) to Bergen . You should also be aware that most of Oslo S is closed in the first week of August . Trains between Oslo Lufthavn and Oslo S are replaced by buses .
Legally speaking , no , you ca n't . The Republic of Cyprus 's ( ROC ) position on this is clear : the Turkish occupation of the northern half of the island is illegal , and they do not recognize the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus 's ( TRNC ) authority . Therefore , if you enter Cyprus via the TRNC , you are an illegal immigrant as far as the ROC is concerned and subject to detention and deportation if caught . However ... in practice , the ROC only appears to apply this to people who require visas for the ROC . If you are a citizen of a country that does not require a visa for the ROC , including the USA and all EU countries , you are generally permitted to enter the ROC without consequences . ( Exception : you are not allowed to fly out via the ROC , but must return to the TRNC . I presume this is because otherwise the Immigration computers would barf . ) All things considered , it 's preferable to visit the other way around , namely from the South to the North . Here the geopolitics work the other way : the ROC claims the entire island , so once you 've legally entered they allow you to visit the North ( because they pretend it 's ROC territory ) , and the TRNC has no claims on the southern half of Cyprus , so they 're happy to let you enter " officially " as well . See also : <URL>
It should be fine in the hand luggage , I have never heard of having any issues carrying them before so it should be ok .
There are no rules , either TSA , FAA , airline or otherwise , that would stop you from taking a wireless mouse ( or most any other " transmitting " device ) through security and onto a plane . However once you 're on the plane there are rules specific to radio transmitting devices , which a wireless mouse is . With very few exceptions , the rules are broken into two phases of flight - take-off/landing , and cruise . During take-off and landing , or specifically the period of flight when the plane is below 10,000 feet , no electronic devices are allowed to be used . That includes computers , wireless mouse , wired mice , kindles , MP3 players , etc. . Specifically those devices need to be turned completely off . In the case of a computer , that means " off " , not just " standby " . In the case of a wireless mouse , that would also mean that the mouse would need to be turned off . During the rest of the flight , electronic devices may be used , with some conditions . The largest condition is that any device with a radio transmitter must have the transmitter disabled UNLESS it is a specific approved type of transmitting device . On some aircraft - primarily those that provide inflight WiFi - computers with wifi are considered an approved transmitting device , and thus may be used . On most other aircraft , basically all transmitting devices are not allowed . Specifically for a wireless mouse , this is a transmitting device , and thus technically is not allowed to be used during flight . It must be turned off completely when below 10,000 feet , and either turned off or have it 's transmit function disabled above 10,000 feet . As you almost certainly ca n't ( independently ) turn off it 's transmit function , that pretty much means it must be off the entire flight . Realistically I 'm sure everyone knows that the power output from a wireless mouse is n't going to be sufficient to interfere with the aircraft in any way , but the approach that has been taken is to simply disallow all transmitting devices , and then only allow those that have been suitably tested and approved . ( Whether this approach is the correct approach is a conversation best had over a beer and not on Travel.SE ! )
It happens in quite a few countries , even in the USA . It depends on the card processing bank that the merchant is using . Some request that the merchant document validity of the card in " card not present " transactions . You find it most when a charge is done manually , such as sending your card details to a Travel Company or hotel and then they process the charge manually , usually at a later date . It provides some assurance that when they try to run the card , it is actually yours and not something that will show up stolen after they have already made bookings and arrangements on your behalf . If you are paying immediately through an online system , they usually do n't need this , as you provide some form of verification such as the CVV and billing address right then and there . And the charge is authorized before proceeding with finalization of your booking .
I have twice successfully claimed for items that I did not have any proof of purchase at all , so you should be ok with any sort of evidence that you purchased the item . Once was for an MP3 player ( $ 200 ) . The other time was for a phone ( $ 400 ) , but I had a letter from the service provider saying that I had reported it stolen and that it was blocked . I think it really just depends on a case by case basis . Obviously , the more expensive the item , or the less believable that you would be travelling with it , the more evidence they may look for . Ever since I had something stolen abroad I now just lay out my travel belongings before I pack them and take a picture of the whole lot . For electronics I take note of serial numbers as well . At least this way I 'll always have at least some record that I owned and was travelling with the item .
The <URL> describing just this , including how to apply for travel documents if one was stateless . They note that : A stateless persons ' document issued to an adult will usually be valid for 10 years if you have permission to stay in the United Kingdom permanently ( known as ' indefinite leave to remain ' ) . If you have temporary permission to stay in the United Kingdom ( known as ' limited leave to remain ' ) , your stateless persons ' document will usually be valid for the same period as your permission to stay here , up to a maximum of five years . In addition they point out that if granted , a stateless persons ' document is normally valid for travel to all countries . Indeed , since 1954 , you 've been able to obtain a ' <URL> ' which for all intents and purpose , acts as a travel document , like a passport . Indeed , it says ' travel document ' on the front cover . This arose from the <URL> .
The pertinent information is <URL> , in Dutch . Bicycles are only allowed in the metro ( subway ) and in tram line 26 , not in other tram lines or bus lines . GVB also does n't have any trains , if you want to take the bicycle on a train , you 'll need different tickets entirely ( both for yourself and for the bike ) . The GVB supplement is valid for an entire day ( so does n't depend on the number of times you embark ) , but not during rush hour : bicycles are n't allowed between 7:00 -9:00 and 16:00 -18:30 . This is the rule in trains as well , by the way . In tram 26 you can buy a paper supplement at the driver , otherwise the ticket has to be loaded onto an " OV chipkaart " at a machine . I feel the need to add -- if you have a bicycle , why not just ride it :-)
Shamelessly converting <URL> in a answer , <URL> is a website which allows you to compare diving prices by location ( <URL> ) , and <URL> . They even have <URL> .
No , you will have no issues . There are no passport checks . If you fly , you will pass through an ID check , where you can use your passport . This check is conducted by the TSA , which does not enforce immigration law . There are stories on the internet , mostly from 8 or 9 years ago , of TSA officers referring aliens to immigration authorities for a status check . If this happens to you , there 's nothing to worry about since you are legally in the country , so you will be fine . If my experience is any guide , this is very unlikely . I 've been traveling domestically with a foreign passport for a couple of years now without anyone ever questioning my immigration status . As indicated in a comment , my experience may not be a sufficient guide , since passengers from Puerto Rico are apparently sometimes checked for immigration status . I 've never been to Puerto Rico . To reiterate , however , with your valid immigration documents , you have nothing to worry about .
Use <URL> . To translate that into English , use ' Baking Soda ' . Sodium bicarbonate is the main ingredient for baking soda and it has this magical effect on bacteria , especially the ones that live in humid areas . Just put some sodium bicarbonate inside your backpack where it gets humid and leave it overnight , then remove it in the morning and NO brave bacteria would dare to live there . By the way , you can use it on your shoes as well and it will eliminate the bad smell and it 's totally odourless and safe .
In at least western Canada the thing to do is tree planting . Disagreeable but always in demand and used as a backup when you ca n't get a real job . There seem to be plenty of websites on the topic : <URL> <URL> <URL>
ITA uses " published " fares , so any travel agent should be able to book them . However , make sure that you 've correctly set the " Sales city " to be a city in the country where you will be buying the ticket , as ticket prices can vary depending on where you purchase them . So if you set the sale city to be SFO , it 's possible that an Australian travel agency will not be able to sell the ticket at the same price . It 's also helpful to give the section that is headed : " Fare construction ( can be useful to travel agents ) " to the travel agent . This will show how the fare has been " priced " , and whilst it 's not needed for simple itineraries , it can help for more complex ones where the trip is potentially being booked as 2 or more separate fares . There are a few exceptions to the above , but they will generally be rare . eg , in some cases travel agents may choose not to sell a particular fare if they believe that certain components are not being priced correctly - for example , if the fuel surcharge is n't being correctly calculated , as it 's possible for the airline to bill them for that after the fact . However these situations are extremely rare .
British Citizens ( which I presume you are ) <URL> Moreover , as an EU citizen , your rights under <URL> allow you to stay for up to three months as a visitor , and as long as you wish provided you are working , or can demonstrate that you are capable of supporting yourself and will not be a burden on the host state . It would be sensible however to also take with you at a minimum <URL> , which will cover you for emergency care only in the EU , provided you are a visitor . Note that the EHIC does not cover you for many instances that actual travel insurance would .
One way to do that is using the high speed ferry <URL> . The sites has all the informations you need , from <URL> to <URL> . It has a connection from Venezia to Pula and the trip takes about 3h 15mins . There are also <URL> running from Venezia ( Mestre ) to Pula : PADOVA - MESTRE ( Venice ) - TRIESTE - PULA 13.00 13.45 14.00 16.15 19.00 Price of one-way ticket Trieste - 100 kn , Mestre 187,30 kn , Padova 213,30 kn
Oh I know this pain . As a citizen you can presumably count as a permanent resident ( as you 've not officially emigrated to any other country ) of Australia , meaning that you could look at the policies of <URL> . I used them during a similar period in my life ( Kiwi here ) .
You can travel to Italy with your current valid passport and your permesso di soggiorno . You do not need your old passport or the old visa . Your permesso di soggiorno is not " based on " a visa ; it replaces the visa . With a valid permesso di soggiorno , you do not need any visa . See , for example , the <URL> Article 5 ( 1 ) ( b ) : For stays not exceeding three months per six-month period , the entry conditions for third-country nationals shall be the following : ( b ) they are in possession of a valid visa , if required pursuant to Council Regulation ( EC ) No 539/2001 of 15 March 2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement , except where they hold a valid residence permit ; ( emphasis added ) Similarly , the permit itself allows you to remain in Italy as long as it is valid , and by implication to enter Italy at any time .
The Mexican consulate in San Francisco says that you do not need a visa as long as you have valid and unexpired USA visa ( or permanent residence ) . Other nationalities , Non-US Permanent Residents . Starting May 1st , 2010 , all those foreign nationals , regardless of their nationality , visiting Mexico for tourist , business or transit matters wo n't need a Mexican visa as long as they have with them a valid and not expired USA visa in the passport . In this context , if you have a valid US visa in the passport you do not need to obtain a Mexican visa . The website is <URL> . Similar , but more clearly stated information is available on the Consulate of Mexico in India <URL> which says : : : NOTICE FOR HOLDERS OF USA VISA : : Holders of any valid visa for the United States of America ( any nationality ) DO NOT require visa to enter Mexico on tourist , business and transit purposes only .
end question
start question
Do shops in Germany open on 2nd Jan ?
The 2nd of January is not a public holiday in Germany . Since it is a Saturday , most shops should be open with their Saturday opening hours . For some local shops , this may mean that they close relatively early . Having said that , some shops may be closed anyway " for holidays " . Also , the beginning of the year is a classical time for making an inventory . Some shops close for that as doing a rolling inventory is a bit complicated . So if you plan to visit some shop on the 2nd of January , you may want to call them in advance in order to verify that they will open on that day.g
As Murphy 's Law dictates , the very next Google search I did for this info after giving up and submitting it as a question here , was successful ! <URL> : Sydney Airport opening times are : T1 International terminal is opened everyday from 3AM to 11:00 PM ( 0300 to 2300 ) • Customs are opened for departures passenger processing at 4AM daily ( 0400 ) T2 Domestic terminal is opened everyday from 4AM to 11:00 PM ( 0400 to 2300 )
Why do people do it today ? Because of the multitude of signs that say to do so ! If you 're asking why it started , <URL> holds what may be the answer ... If if you 've ever wondered why we do it , and why so many tourists get lost in translation , the answer may lie in a piece of film from the 1920s ... partly shot at Waterloo station and it was one of the first times the Tube system had appeared on film . The escalator design had a diagonal step-off , clearly meant for the right foot first so standing on the right made sense . ( the video also includes clips of 1920s tube-escalator-ettiquette cinema humour such as a soldier tripping up at the bottom of an escalator because he 's drilled to always march left foot first )
You will probably struggle . Rural areas such as this in the UK are n't known for long opening hours or 24h-style service . 8am on a Sunday may be difficult , although by 9am you might have more options . Your best bet would be to call a few places - I would n't trust any online information you find on a third-party site , and cafes are quite likely not to have a website of their own . I just searched on Yelp for <URL> and it turned up a few . That might be a start .
Well , let 's look at whether it 's possible first , to be <URL> . You 'll want to enter one of the cars that 's empty , obviously , otherwise you run into other problems ( being accused of tampering or theft ) . This means you 'll want to do so out of sight . You could do this along the tracks , if you know the train stops at a signal , or in the changing yard - both tricky , and the latter probably trespassing - given you 're not allowed off passenger platforms by law . Metafilter has a <URL> , but repeats time and again - if you get caught , you 're in trouble . Not " we 'll kick you off the train " trouble , but we 're talking arrests . Possible charges include : Tickets ( fines ) Warrants WILL be issued if you do n't pay the fines in the county issued wilful trespassing ( train tracks and yards are federal property , so you WILL get charged ) breaking and entering ( although if it 's unlocked and open you could probably contests that one in court ) It also amuses me that <URL> exists ... Another thing to remember , from anecdotal experience . Two friends and myself were on an overnight train from Bucharest , Romania to Istanbul , Turkey . The train was fairly full , and we wandered through looking for more space . We found three empty boxcars at the back . We have NO problem with lack of comfort , but we thought space could be pretty good . It then turned out we 'd been allocated two seats each somehow ( they seemed to actually have a backpacker class ) so gave up on that idea and enjoyed our seats . Mid-way through the night we stopped in Bulgaria to change engines . We got off , and then realised what could have gone horribly wrong - the boxcars were no longer attached , and had long since gone somewhere else ...
Well , you have nailed it pretty well because Saarland is the smallest non-city state in Germany and there are not many lakes . Bostalsee in 66625 Nohfelden . Very nice lake with several smaller lakes in vicinity . Stausee Losheim in 66679 Losheim am See . River quality has improved so much that bathing and swimming should be no problem , even in the Saar . Bathing in rivers is <URL> , but there are exceptions : Forbidden is bathing in vicinity ( less than 100 m ) of a construction : a bridge , a weir or a lock . Also forbidden ( trespassing ) is bathing if you enter private ground or use a private road . While very beautiful , bathing in nature reserves ( Naturschutzgebiet ) is forbidden . Look for this signs because the roads are often free : Be careful that you choose locations with weak currents and no high banks . Look out for river traffic because shipping is used extensively in Germany .
The buildings will be as beautiful in the night as during the day , maybe even better if still having the lights on them , and you can find some activity still in the red light district , but it will be the last little bit and depending on the weather it might have stopped before you make it to the city . I would not bother getting into Amsterdam city , so little is open and what is open is likely not going to be geared to tourists around for a few hours only . The one exception is that there might be clubs open , allowing you to dance ( and modestly drink if you have a flight at the end of those hours ) and get the athmosphere of the city : <URL> or <URL> for places that might suit you and might be open . There will not be many on a Monday night . About transportation , that time of night the train is down to one per hour , ( 1:14 , 2:00 , 3:00 and so on , ) and if you have just missed it you will lose about all the time you have to visit the city . So check the time and whether you can just catch a train , if not , taxi might be the best option . Shared taxi or prebooked ride will be cheaper but might not quick enough in the short time you have . Most prebooked rides will combine different people to fill taxis or 9 people vans . There might be a night bus , which is likely to run at different times to the train . <URL> will help you find the best times for you .
I think your friends are rather misinformed . I am unaware of parks closing at any point during the year apart from the occasional holiday or similar occurrence . For example , the Oka national park is open all year round as can be seen here : Parc national d'Oka is open year-round from 8 a.m. until sunset . <URL> Basically , visit the information page of the parks you want to visit beforehand to confirm that it will indeed be open ( they sometimes close for special occasions , but these are rare ) and you will be fine . There is no reason for the national parks to be closed during the color changes . Do keep in mind that , as Michael Seifert mentioned , the colors do not always coincide with the Indian summer . As for where you can visit , I recommend you visit <URL> , but also <URL> and <URL> . The first is not a national park , but both are nearby Montreal ( about 30 minutes by car ) and feature some of the most beautiful scenery in the area . Personally , I prefer Mont-Saint-Hilaire as it is taller and features more rugged terrain , but Mont-Saint-Bruno is perfect for a relaxed hike . Hope you have a beautiful trip !
As a matter of fact , they just have been reopened . The Musée Carnavalet , the museum in charge of the catacombs , announced on their <URL> one hour ago : Bonne nouvelle ! Les Catacombes sont de nouveau ouvertes au public . Nous vous souhaitons un agréable après-midi Which translates to : " Good news ! The catacombs are now again open to the public . We wish you a good afternoon . "
This is the relevant information <URL> : Werden Fleisch , Milch sowie daraus hergestellte Erzeugnisse wie z.B. Käse oder Wurstwaren privat eingeführt , so müssen diese Waren dieselben veterinärrechtlichen Anforderungen erfüllen wie gewerbsmäßige Einfuhrsendungen . Das heißt , Reisende , die solche Waren mit sich führen , dürfen nur noch über bestimmte Eingangsstellen , an denen ein Veterinär anwesend ist , in die Europäische Union einreisen . Zudem müssen die Erzeugnisse von festgelegten Gesundheitsbescheinigungen und einem gültigen Begleitdokument ( Gemeinsames Veterinärdokument für die Einfuhr " GVDE " ) begleitet sein . Note that this is based on EU regulation and should thus be similar in the entire EU , and does not apply to good moving inside the EU or from a few associated countries like Norway or Switzerland . My translation : When meat , milk or wares produced from them such as cheese or sausages are imported by private persons , those wares must comply with the same veterinary regulations as commercial imports . That means , travelers who carry such wares can only enter the EU via specific points where a veterinarian is present . Additionally , the wares must be accompanied by specific health certificates and a valid accompanying document ( <URL> ) . Sounds like a lot of hassle ... Maybe you can find deli stores in Germany that sell this cooked meat the way you need it ?
Although nowhere near as ubiquitous as in the US , coffee shops are relatively common in major Thai cities , especially those with high tourist numbers ( eg , Bangkok , Chang Mai ) . In addition to over 100 Starbucks stores around the country you 'll also find countless McDonalds , many of which have " McCafe " and - depending on the area - many western style coffee shops serving your choice of various forms of espresso and drip coffees . When ordering it 's worth making sure that you 're getting what you think you are . " Cappuccino " does n't vary around the world as much as some other drinks , but there are slight variations between countries ( and often between shops in the same counties ! ) . Starbucks has the edge here in that they will almost always make the US version of a drink regardless of what country you 're in . Expect to pay about the same as what you would in the US , which means that your morning coffee could well be the most expensive thing you buy all day !
I found a list of laundry service providers in Bangkok . You can look over it . I hope it will help you to find your nearest service provider . <URL>
You could try <URL> . It 's a company for cheap bus lines operated by DB . <URL> also have domestic lines .
Well I can be evil and if people complain , I call them insensitive because I ( genuinely ) have no sense of smell ;) However , logically you do have a few options : hand-wash - a wash-cloth and some soap goes a long way , and for some reason even though the water is cold , it 's never as bad as stepping under a cold shower . deodorant , lots of it . make sure you have clean ( or your closest-to-clean ) clothes on , minimising the risk of odour , and still helping you to feel fresh . wet-wipes / baby wipes . It 's slow , but hey , if it works ... do what our salt-flats tour group did in Uyuni - made a group pact to not shower , so that nobody had to deal with the ice-cold water ( ! )
In the UK , the setup is broadly similar to the US . As <URL> Members of the public and the media do not need a permit to film or photograph in public places and police have no power to stop them filming or photographing incidents or police personnel . [ ... ] Officers do not have the power to delete digital images or destroy film at any point during a search . Deletion or destruction may only take place following seizure if there is a lawful power ( such as a court order ) that permits such deletion or destruction . Although some <URL> <URL> suggest that you can not always rely on any given policeman knowing this . In France , <URL> Article 9 of French Civil Code states : " Everyone has the right to respect for his private life " . This is generally considered to include one 's right to the own image , even if it is taken in a public space . According to case law and legal doctrine , photographs taken of ( one or more ) individuals require authorisation . Just taking someone 's photo without consent ( in private or public space ) can be considered as an invasion of privacy and gives them the right to claim for cessation of the wrongful conduct . Everyone is legally protected from unauthorised distribution , publication or commercialisation of a picture of himself . The permission has to be interpreted in a strict way ( only to the extent expressly consented to by the subject ) though it goes on to note that certain exceptions exist ( which seem to me primarily to relate to the incidental and minor appearance of individuals in photographs taken in public places ) . So the scenery is probably OK , but if there are people in your photo , be careful that you are not making them a major feature of the image . I have been involved in a traffic accident in France , and being uninjured and having followed normal UK practice of photographing everything and everyone from as many angles as possible , was surprised when the attending officer was more upset with me than with any of the drivers . That in the heat of the moment I was unable to remember any of the French verbs related to deleting images , and thus could not promise to immediately rectify the situation , did not help .
Nepalese citizens require a visa to visit the UK . Having a residence permit from another EU/EEC country does not free you from any UK visitor visa requirements . A residence permit from an EU/EEC country may free you from transit visa requirements . I would however assume that a EU residence permit will ease the application process and make it more probable that your application will be granted .
Think about what your luggage goes through from the time you check it until you get it back . It travels on automatic conveyor belts . In many situations , it must be shunted from one conveyor belt to another . This is done by machines , not humans . The machines can not see the " fragile " tag . It is moved from conveyor-belt to dolly by a human . The human may , or may not , notice the " fragile " tag . It is packed in the cargo hold by humans . Depending on the orientation of the item , the human may , or may not , notice the " fragile " tag . When they pack it in the cargo hold , they may put other bags on top of it . It spends some time outside , exposed to the elements . No matter how many fragile tags you put on , there will come a point where your suitcase must make its way up the conveyor belt into the aircraft . If it is raining , snowing , cold , or hot , it will be exposed to the elements at this point . It spills out of an automatic conveyor line onto a rotating baggage carousel . As it rotates on the carousel , other bags may fall on top of it . Other passengers may pick it up , thinking it 's their bag , and handle it . When they discover it 's not theirs , they may , or may not , honor the " Fragile " sticker . Oh , and let 's not forget : It flies through the air , at 40,000 feet , at 600 miles per hour . It may encounter bad weather or turbulence , causing intensive shaking of the contents for a prolonged period of time . When all is said and done , it 's a miracle anything gets anywhere unscathed , " fragile " sticker notwithstanding .
No , it 's not the same . Whether that 's the case for a given journey will depend on a few details but , unlike the US , there is no blanket requirement to pick up your luggage and walk it through customs when entering Germany or the EU . Usually , in Europe , your luggage will be routed to your final destination and you will clear customs there . You have n't provided much detail but I expect it wo n't be necessary to collect your luggage in this case . However , immigration formalities ( passport check by the police , Schengen entry stamp , etc. ) will have to be completed in Munich . There is some info on transit time in Munich in <URL>
Yes , particularly in your circumstance where the airline can see it occurred because of a delayed inbound flight . In that condition the delay has encroached into the " minimum connect time " between LGA and EWR ( which is three hours ) . If you were involved in a delay between LGA and EWR I would also expect to be re-accommodated . However this is a bit more difficult to assert and prove . ( All of this relies on these flights being on a single ticket -- that is , bought at the same time from one seller . ) By the way , you can write " LGA-EWR " as " LGA / / EWR " to indicate that you are not flying between LGA and EWR but using alternative transportation .
The Galilee region of Israel is considered quite safe , and is not near any of the hot spots you are concerned about . You 're more likely to be bitten by a scorpion . The <URL> goes into some more detail , and says in part : The Galilee region is quite stable . There is always some risk associated with hiking and camping alone in any part of the world , but the risk in the Galilee region is very minimal ... While the media often portrays Israel and Palestine as perpetual hotspots of violence , the tourist areas of the region are generally very safe with a high level of security . Tourists have not ordinarily been targets of violence in the region , and politically motivated violence in Israel has been low for the past two years .
end question
start question
My old passport expired and was unused . As an Indian citizen , would I need it while applying for a visa to Japan in Taiwan ?
Nope . For new visas , you only ever need your active , current passport - specifically ( if you have two or more citizenships ) , the passport you intend to travel to the country ( in this case Japan ) on . You may be asked for other documentation - e.g. proof of funds , accommodation and so on , but you wo n't need the past passports . They 're considered invalid documents for the purpose of acquiring a visa . Edit : Included <URL> .
Yes , just apply for it with a few days buffer either side . I 've done this twice . The first time I entered as expected as it was very much a holiday . The second time I was travelling up Finland to the arctic circle , and then crossing there . The buses from Rovaniemi were not every day , so I ended up bussing to Ivalo , and then to Murmansk , getting there a couple of days later than planned . The only confusion at the border was that I was a Kiwi arriving on a Russian bus company from somewhere in Finland . And on a Russian business visa . But once the border guy was over that , there were no problems . Point is , I arrived a couple of days into the period my visa was valid for . And there is no problem with that - it 's just a maximum period of validity , not a fixed arrival/exit date . All websites will tell you - DO NOT book flights before applying for the visa , in case you do n't get it . However if you want to in order to save money , you might still consider doing it - I certainly did the first time . It 's a calculated risk , if you 're going as a tourist , have no criminal issues or problems that may give them problems with giving you a visa , have an invite and have travel insurance , there 's very little theoretical chance of them denying you . However , stranger things have happened . Personally I never book accommodation more than a few days in advance - which has caused me some grief ( I got the very last bed at the hostel I 'm staying at in Seattle this weekend ) , but one thing to be aware of with Russia is that they often ask where you 're staying . Last time I was n't sure , and just put the 5 biggest cities I was likely going through . That worked fine , and the cities are n't listed on your actual visa . If you 're worried and are happy with hostels , you can always just book one with Hostelbookers and if you do n't get your visa , email them and cancel your booking . You only lose your 10 % deposit .
You may leave without an American passport . The United States does not have a government exit procedure , so at airport check-in , you would be showing whichever passport would be more convenient for your country of destination . If you were returning to the UK , for example , your UK passport would be better ( although since US citizens do not need advance visa for UK , not that much better ) . Supposing you were a dual USA-Ruritania citizen and Ruritania requires advance visas for Americans , the advantage of the Ruritanian passport would be obvious . You must , however , use your replacement USA passport when you next come into the United States .
A tourist visa for US citizens can obtained upon arrival for 25 USD , preferably cash , exact change . After you deplane you first stop will be immigration . Before immigration there will be some well signed , official , booths for obtaining visa on arrival ( VOA ) . There will be a fee of 25USD ( this it not a bribe or anything of that nature , but a legitimate fee ) . It 's payable by cash or credit card . I would recommend having enough cash on hand in case the credit card system is not operational/available . There are also ATMs nearby and you may be able to pay in Indonesian Ruppiah , which is what the ATMs will probably dispense . 1 USD ~ = 10,000 IDR . Once you have paid the visa fee they will place your visa in your passport . From there it is a straight shot through immigration in a line marked for people who did VOA . No need to stand in the line for non-VOA visa people . Someone will check your passport to make sure there 's a visa in there . Then on to baggage . Some of these details may apply specifically to Soekarno-Hatta International Airport ( CGK ) but the principles should apply throughout Indonesia .
I am not really familiar with this particular system/form but here are a few suggestions : Depending how you look at it , your H1B visa was issued by the US or by a specific consulate ( if I am not mistaken , it 's called " Issuing Post " in official US parlance ) . Writing " US consulate in XXX " would in any case unambiguously provide all the information the German consulate could possibly wish . Your passport is generally issued by your home country . So , for a regular passport , writing " India " or possibly " XXX office in [ Name of your city ] ( India ) " ( or whatever the relevant agency is called in India ) or , if you live abroad , " Consulate of India in XXX " should be just fine . At the end of the day , many Indian citizens will have a passport issued in India and by India but there is a distinction between " citizenship " , " issued in " and " issued by " because of two special cases : People residing abroad and people who ca n't get a regular passport . For example , I do n't live in my country of origin so my passport was issued by my country ( and , more specifically , by one of my country 's consulates ) but in another country ( and , more specifically , in the city where that consulate is located ) . For the second case , refugees often can not ask their country of origin for a passport ( after all , they have this status because they are persecuted in this country ) and stateless people have no state to turn to to get a passport . So what these people have ( when they are lucky ) are various types of passport-like travel documents ( 1951 or 1954 Convention travel document or , if they live in a country that is not party to one or both of these conventions , some sort of ad hoc refugee travel document , re-entry permit , etc. ) In all the cases , the travel document is issued by and in a country that 's not the person 's country of citizenship .
According to the <URL> and taking into note that you are a Filipino Citizen you will require a visa to enter South Korea . The fact that you are a <URL> of the United States will not change this fact .
Okay , while all the answers here were awesome , I got mixed responses . So I ended up contacting the US Consulate in Lilongwe , Malawi . Here was their response : Entry visas for U.S. travelers are available upon arrival in Malawi at both of the international airports , Lilongwe and Blantyre , as well as at border crossings . You will have to complete a one-page visa application form and pay the USD $ 75 ( U.S. dollars only ) but it 's fairly routine at this point . I 'm copying our official announcement below for your reference . <URL>
Since <URL> : A Korean embassy or consulate can issue two types of visas : a short-term visa for visitors who want to stay up to 90 days and a special long-term visa for periods longer than 90 days . A visitor with a special long-term visa is required to apply for alien registration at a local immigration office within 90 days of arrival . I think one can work backwards and deduce that for stays under 90 days ( standard visa ) such is not required .
Nope . For new visas , you only ever need your active , current passport - specifically ( if you have two or more citizenships ) , the passport you intend to travel to the country ( in this case Japan ) on . You may be asked for other documentation - e.g. proof of funds , accommodation and so on , but you wo n't need the past passports . They 're considered invalid documents for the purpose of acquiring a visa . Edit : Included <URL> .
You need an UK entry clearance before you leave Denmark or your carrier will refuse to board you . It does not matter that you have a Danish work permit , it is entirely governed by what type of passport you hold . For your question about the difference between ' visa ' and ' entry clearance ' . An ' entry clearance ' is what they will put in your passport if your application is successful . Americans , Canadians , etc who apply at the border get an ' entry certificate ' , or ' leave to enter ' . For your question about getting a long-term general visitor visa , if you are successful they will give you one valid for 6 months . If you build up about 5 or 6 of those AND you show them a viable need for visiting the UK over a long period of time , they will consider a longer term . A long-term visitor for ordinary tourism will not work . Adding : take note that if you apply for a long-term visitor visa , they will keep the extra money you paid and issue you the standard 6 month visa anyway .
No and no . The address on the passport is a convenience , acting as proof of address and so the passport can ( in theory , anyway ) be returned to you if you lose it . It does not have to be up to date . The <URL> does not explicitly state this , but a number of the questions like Q65 say things like " Proof of Present Address ( if address is different from the one mentioned on passport ) " , which clearly implies that it 's OK to have an old address in your passport .
Australian citizens do not need a visa for short visits to the Schengen area ( including Germany ) , whether for business , tourism or any other purpose . However , you can not work in Germany without a specific authorization . I am not sure of the exact legal definitions but things like meeting clients , attending a trade-show , etc. are typically business activities while being employed by a German company to do something on site would be work .
Kosovo : Based on the list <URL> from the Kosovo Ministry of Foreign Affairs , you do indeed need a visa as an Indian citizen . Based on <URL> , it seems you can arrange to mail your passport to one of the visa issuing locations . Based on the <URL> page , there is no requirement to show up in person to submit the visa request . Further , one of those locations is in Istanbul . Additionally , based on the QA website linked , and the <URL> section of the Kosovo MOFA , it seems holders of multi-entry Schengen visas do not need a special visa to enter Kosovo . However , it is unclear from the documentation if that visa is valid for the full 90 days , or for only 15 days ( <URL> ) . If you take a look at a map of Kosovo , you will see that it only borders Serbia to the North . While not recognized by Serbia , Kosovo is recognized by over 100 nations and has permanent membership in several major global institutions . I suggest <URL> . However , if you plan to stay away from the northern part of Kosovo , there seems to be no reason why you would need a Serbian visa . The information in that post is echoed/backed-up by <URL> . Further , <URL> that Serbian border guards might deny entry into Serbia if they see a stamp from Kosovo . Turkey : For transiting , as long as you do not leave the airport terminal , you should not have any need for a Turkish visa . This is common practice is most countries . Also , see <URL> . Based on <URL> , if you wish to visit Turkey as an Indian citizen you do indeed need a visa . Much like Kosovo , there is a special provision that will fast-track you for an e-Visa if you already have a Schengen visa .
<URL> : Visitor visas are nonimmigrant visas for persons who want to enter the United States temporarily for business ( visa category B-1 ) , tourism , pleasure or visiting ( visa category B-2 ) , or a combination of both purposes ( B-1 / B-2 ) . Therefore , although your original plans might have changed , you should be allowed to visit the US as a tourist on that visa . Obviously , you 'll have to explain your travel purposes when entering the US . Be honest about your change of plans and make sure you have all the necessary documentation to prove that you are not trying anything illegal .
The general consensus on the web seems to be that <URL> : Go through a travel agent . Apply for a visa with the Chinese embassy in your home country . Go to Hong Kong and spend a few days waiting for the visa to be processed . According to <URL> , going via a travel agency will involve shipping your passport to a neighbouring country/republic with a Chinese embassy . If however you feel like going on a visa run in Hong Kong , note that <URL> of which 4 were needed to process the visa application . There seems to be a reliable travel agent , <URL> , with a desk at the airport just outside of immigration which can help with this type of procedures . Indeed , <URL> as the 2007 guy , dating 2013 , mentions this company and the straightforward visa application procedure .
According to the rules ( <URL> , in French ) , you have to be resident in the country where you apply . The key paragraph is the first : Les étrangers désireux de se rendre en Algérie doivent présenter à leur arrivée un passeport en cours de validité muni d’un visa d’entrée sur le territoire Algérien délivré par l’Ambassade ou le Consulat algérien du lieu de résidence habituel du demandeur . A l’exception des pays où les formalités de visa ne sont pas exigées ( voir liste des pays ) . Listes des pays non soumis aux formalités de visa : TUNISIE , MAROC , MAURITANIE , LYBIE , YÉMEN , MALI , MALAISIE , RASD , SEYCHELLES , SYRIE A rough , fairly liberal , translation is ( emphasis mine ) : Foreigners wishing to enter Algeria should present on arrival a valid passport affixed with an entry visa for Algeria , delivered by the Algerian Embassy or Consulate in their habitual place of residence . This is with the exception of countries with no visa required ( see list ) . List of countries : Tunisia , Morocco , Mauritania , Libya , Yemen , Mali , Malaysia , the SADR , the Seychelles and Syria So to answer your question , unless you are habitually resident in Morocco , you technically can not apply for an Algerian visa there .
I presume you are an Indian national . According to the <URL> in a <URL> , you can use an Income certificate or bank statement : 1 . Eligibility for Applicant Nationals of India with ordinary MRP ( Machine Readable Passport ) / e-passport in compliance with the ICAO ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) standard , who wishes to apply for a Multiple Visa for a stay of up to 30 days and are applicable to one of the following categories : ( 1 ) Individual who has travel record as temporary visitor to Japan in the last three years and who has ability to pay the travel expense ( 2 ) Individual who has travel record as temporary visitor to Japan and travel records as temporary visitor to G7 countries ( except Japan ) in the last three years ( 3 ) Individual with sufficient financial capacity ( 4 ) Spouse or children of the individuals who are mentioned ( 3 ) above 2 . Necessary Documents to Submit ... ( 3 ) Applicant with sufficient financial capacity ( as mentioned 1 ( 3 ) above ) a. Application form ( with Photo ) b. Passport ( MRP / e-passport in compliance with the ICAO standard only ) c. Documents to prove the sufficient financial ability such as income certificate , bank statement , or income tax return ( and some additional documents which certify incomes such as stock dividend , pension , retirement allowance , inheritance , lease agreement , real estate register , deed of property etc. ) d. Applicant 's Certificate of employment e . A letter of explanation stating the reason of applying for the multiple visa ( f. if applying from outside of India ) documents to prove that the applicant legally resides in that country If you go through the entire document , you should have all that you need to submit an application for a visa . Good luck .
Yes , you can - the pending H1-B application does not impact your ability to use the VWP program at all . As with anyone using VWP you will need to obtain an ESTA in advance of your trip . The only real complication is that you can not change from VWP to H1-B status whilst in the US . ie , if/when your H1-B is approved , you will need to leave the US to obtain your visa and then re-enter the US using that visa to get your H1-B status .
The US Consulate in Chennai <URL> about visas in damaged passports : You may travel carrying your old and new passports if the visa in your old passport is valid and not damaged . If the old passport is in poor condition , or if the visa in your old passport is damaged , you should apply for a new visa . You can not transfer your old visa to the new passport . To apply for a new visa , please schedule an appointment and come in for a personal interview , remembering to bring all relevant documents . We can formally cancel the damaged old visa at the time of the new application . India classes <URL> : damaged , and damaged beyond recognition ( which means that your personal information page is damaged or unreadable ) . Some writing on one of the blank pages probably does not qualify as damage , though . Passports tend to accumulate lots of writing and stamps on all of their blank pages ; that 's the point of them ! So you can probably travel on it . If you do decide to replace the passport : If your passport is merely damaged , and not damaged beyond recognition , and the visa is not damaged , you should be OK to travel with your new passport and the visa in the old passport .
" Airline transit passengers travelling with a stopover at Dubai Airport ( or other UAE airport ) who do not leave the terminal building , do not need a UAE visa since they are not entering the UAE . " Taken from <URL> Moreover " Transit passengers stopping at Dubai International Airport for a minimum of 8 hours and meeting certain conditions mentioned below are eligible for obtaining a 96-hour transit visa . " from <URL> So technically you CAN NOT and therefore need not apply for a transit visa
end question
start question
Can you stretch a Coast Starlight ticket over multiple days ?
Amtrak does not allow stopovers , but they do have a multi-city option on their web site , and if you book one ticket of multiple legs it may be intelligent enough to do better than adding up one-way fares . If you do n't book a sleeper berth , the fare is not that high ; Los Angeles to Emeryville as low as $ 50 if booked far in advance . ( Note discount tickets may not be refundable . ) Also , this train is 100 % reserved seats , and may sell out .
Being Dutch , I have never heard of such law . I also doubt there is a law that would cover this , I would take it as a try to intimidate you . But also as a ' please really , really do not do this . ' If caught out after you made the picture and before you had seen the sign , I would let them try to sue you . But if seeing the sign before you take the picture , do not take one . If the designs in the shop are unique , they have the right to protect their copy-right , but that would go for pictures of the clothing without it being worn . I would not let me be bullied into buying their clothing , but I would also not take photos of me wearing stock unless I have approval of shop staff . Added : Taking the photo is not breaking the copy-right laws , using the information from the photo might be . But that breaking of the copy-right laws can also happen after you have bought the item , much easier even . So I doubt the judge ( if it came to a court case ) would accept it as reason to be forced to buy the item . I am Dutch , I am not a lawyer but I am pretty much aware of customer rights .
Definitely plan for strolls along the canals , and possibly a canal tour . Amsterdam has many major art museums , and I recommend visiting at least some of them , even if you 're not generally fond of staring at paintings ( I 'm not ) . The two most important ones are the <URL> and the <URL> ( they are practically next door to each other , on the <URL> ) , then possibly <URL> . Also consider the <URL> , which shows collections from the Hermitage Museum , rotating every few months . If you 're into modern art , do n't miss the <URL> , normally also on the Museumplein but currently closed with its collections travelling from temporary location to temporary location . If you 're interested in history , apart from <URL> ( whose value is more as a memento than to see unique artifacts or presentations ) , the major museums are the <URL> , the <URL> , and perhaps the <URL> . Also consider the Palace and the major churches and the <URL> ( worth at least a quick visit ) . Somewhat lesser known , but definitely interesting , is the <URL> , a large ethnological museum ( as it is located somewhat off the beaten path , you may not be able to fit it into a three-day visit ) . For the young and hip crowd , Amsterdam also has some less conventional places to visit . You can tour the <URL> just south of the central district . Depending on your tastes , you might visit the <URL> , the <URL> , the <URL> , the <URL> , or the <URL> . Given your posting history , I guess you 'll want to have dinner in the station/Dam area then head east into the main red light district ( worth a visit even if you are n't interested in the wares ) . I very strongly recommend getting a museum pass . Partly because you wo n't have any qualms visiting a minor museum for only half an hour , but most importantly because the major museums can have very long queues , which you can completely bypass if you have free entry . Some museums now allow you to buy tickets online in advance , but not all , and this requires planning . For up to three days in Amsterdam , get the <URL> , which includes free transportation on board the trams ( and buses and metro ) and free entrance to most major and many minor museums . For a longer stay in the Netherlands , get the <URL> ¹ , which grants free entrance to all public museums ( which is most of them ) in the whole country , and purchase transportation separately . There 's also the <URL> , which may concievably be worth it in odd circumstances . You can <URL> ( but not the Museumkaart ) at the tourist office outside the central station ( only until 18:00 on Friday and Saturday , 17:00 otherwise ) , at the Schiphol airport , in the participating museums ( tip : if you 're on the Museumplein , the <URL> is just opposite the Rijksmuseum on the Van Gogh Museum side , and there 's hardly ever a queue ) and other locations . Depending on your tastes , you 'll either mostly travel on foot and in trams , or cycle ( there are plenty of bicycle rental places ) . Finally , as Amsterdam has many things to offer and you wo n't have time to see them all , I recommend getting a guidebook on paper ( or e-book ) and planning your stay . ¹ For some reason , many guidebooks do n't mention the Museumkaart , even though it is good value if you 're spending more than a week-end in the country . Although the website is in Dutch , the card is not reserved to residents .
Contact AAdvantage and request original routing credit due to your involuntary rerouting . Provide scans of your new boarding passes , your PNR and ticket number , and a short description of what happened . It is very likely AA will credit you for RDMs and EQMs as a goodwill gesture for the cancellation , although you may not receive segment , e500 , or specal promotion credit for the flight . This is one of the extremely rare cases where it is possible to double-dip . You can request your new flights to be credited to US Airways ( or another Star Alliance carrier , such as United ) , and receive those in addition to the AAdvantage miles . Of course , since AA and US Airways are merging , if you can keep the US Airways account alive for another year and a half or so , you can merge miles from both accounts into the new program as well .
It depends primarily on the airline policy . The only airline I believe is Royal Brunei Airlines which allows consumption of personal alcohol on-board because it does not serve any on the aircraft . Any airline which serves alcohol on-board typically does not allow consumption of personal alcohol . I suspect the reason for this is to maintain decorum during the flight and prevent people from drinking too much which would compromise the safety of other passengers including the intoxicated person in tense situations . As mentioned in the question , the <URL> prohibits alcohol which is not served by the certificate holder operating the aircraft . So , this rules out the United States . Most airlines do n't provide any specific information about it in their General Conditions of International Carriage for Passenger and Baggage . If you want to look up for a specific airline , the Conduct Aboard the Aircraft ( Article 11,12 or 15 typically ) can provide information regarding the same . One example we can talk about is airlines which <URL> on their flights : <URL> does not allow it in any form Saudi Arabian Airlines does not serve or permit passengers to carry or drink alcoholic beverages on its flights . <URL> does n't serve alcohol but allows you to carry some and consume on board ( does not specify domestic or international waters ) . It also does not mention anything regarding this in their <URL> . <URL> does not allow it in any form You are not allowed to consume alcohol aboard an aircraft ( whether purchased as duty free or otherwise obtained ) Another example we must talk about is European airlines which do serve alcohol : <URL> serves alcohol but does not allow passengers to consume their own alcohol . It is forbidden to consume any alcohol which you may have personally brought on board . <URL> also serves alcohol but <URL> . Passengers are not allowed to consume the alcoholic beverages they bring on board during the flight , including duty-free items purchased at the airport or on the plane . <URL> follows the same policy as the others 15.4 The Carrier may limit or prohibit the consumption of alcohol on board the aircraft . Consumption of any alcoholic beverages carried into the aircraft by Passengers or consumption of any duty free product bought on board the aircraft is prohibited . So does <URL> For safety reasons , consumption of alcohol by passengers is restricted to alcohol served by us , with the result that alcohol purchased by passengers ( whether as duty free purchases at airports or aboard aircraft or other purchases ) can not be consumed aboard our aircraft . Now , airlines in Asia which also serve alcohol : <URL> does n't say it specifically but it implies that personal alcohol consumption is not allowed Passengers are also permitted to consume their own snacks and non-alcoholic drinks on board . <URL> says it quite specifically Except for the alcoholic drinks provided by CEAIR flights , Passengers shall not have any other alcoholic drinks on board the aircraft . <URL> does not either Drinking of any alcoholic drinks on board an aircraft is permitted only in amounts offered by the airline . <URL> has the same policy as the others You are not allowed to consume alcohol aboard an aircraft ( whether purchased as duty free from us or someone else or otherwise obtained ) unless it has been served to you by us . We have the right , at any time and for any reason , to refuse to serve you alcohol or to withdraw alcohol which has been served to you .
Your best option is to pre-book a hostel/hotel , then phone them and ask if they 'll receive mail for you . Many will , perhaps they 'll charge a few euros . Or phone first , then book . Failing that try going through a travel agent ( in Germany ) who will probably charge you less than the eighty euro extra . Other options are to have someone get the ticket and FedEx/DHL it to a drop point where you are . This will work but is surprisingly expensive ( and you 'll likely have to pay to go to the office , unless it 's in-town ) . Or , just take printed evidence you bought the ticket ( maybe also get someone to scan the ticket and send it to you ) , plead ignorance and hope for the best . You do n't say where you 're travelling so I 'm not sure what 's the worst case if you get fined . But even then you may be able to offer to send them the ticket later ( I would n't recommend this , but if nothing else will work I think you 'll get away with it 90 % of the time -- it 's not like you 're trying to avoid the fares and most * staff will understand this ) . ( * most -- please do n't hold me responsible if you get one of the few that will not )
Sure the risk is increased ( doubled , perhaps , but I imagine some connections are worse than others ) . Probably less risk if all your flights are with the same airline . If there 's a large variation in connection risk then two may be almost the same as one , statistically . The right decision depends on a bunch of factors . If ( say ) your first stop is in city X and you 're immediately getting into a rental car and driving 4 hours to city Y to make a presentation to a key customer then a delayed bag containing important stuff might be a real issue . If you arrive the night before and your bag does n't arrive until noon the next day , then you 're scuppered . Otherwise it might just be an inconvenience . Personally I would not ( probably could not ) take a 10 day multi-stop business trip with just a carry-on . Time is money when it 's for business and I would try to avoid hotel laundry more than once . If you 're just going to a fixed location such as a conference , have some free time , and the airport is reasonably near your hotel ( usually they 'll deliver a delayed bag ) , the risk is minimal . The risk of complete loss is pretty low , but you can decrease it by not putting anything that looks valuable in your bag . Most likely nobody wants to steal your clothes and reading material .
I know somebody in a similar situation to you : she lived illegally in the US for some years , and many years later she wanted to return as a tourist . Although she would otherwise have been eligible for the Visa Waiver Program , her local US Consulate recommended that she apply for a visa because of her history . She got a visa and visited the US without any problems . When applying for the visa you will be asked whether you have ever overstayed in the past ; you can answer yes to this and still get a visa , but if you lie and get found out you almost certainly wo n't .
Most UK Visitor in Transit visas are <URL> . Single entry transit visas are rare . But you should ensure that you provide your complete itinerary when you apply for the visa .
I tried KAYAK and I found flights operated by Uzbekistan Airways there !! While you ca n't buy on Kayak , if you follow the ticket , it 'll take you to the online travel agency <URL> and you can certainly purchase them there .
No , you ca n't use PackStation as a transient traveler . To use it , you must be able to pre-register and then receive the registration materials via mail . So you must be in one place long enough to complete this process ( a few weeks minimum ) . I do n't remember whether you actually have to show proof of residency , but the above practical problem will prevent you from using PackStation if you are only " passing through " .
From the US Consulate : Tourists to Mexico wishing to travel beyond the border zone with their car must obtain a temporary import permit or risk having their car confiscated by Mexican customs officials . To acquire a permit , one must submit evidence of citizenship , title for the car , a car registration certificate and a driver 's license to a Banjercito branch located at a Mexican Customs office at the port of entry , and pay a processing fee . Mexican law also requires the posting of a bond at a Banjercito office to guarantee the departure of the car from Mexico within a time period determined at the time of the application . For this purpose , American Express , Visa or MasterCard credit card holders will be asked to provide credit card information ; others will need to make a cash deposit of between $ 200 and $ 400 , depending on the age of the car . Please do not forget to ask for your receipt from Banjército . In order to recover this bond or avoid credit card charges , travelers must return to any Mexican Customs office immediately prior to departing Mexico . Disregard any advice , official or unofficial , that vehicle permits can be obtained at checkpoints in the interior of Mexico . Avoid individuals outside vehicle permit offices offering to obtain the permits without waiting in line . If the proper permit can not be obtained at the Banjercito branch at the port of entry , do not proceed to the interior where travelers may be incarcerated , fined and/or have their vehicle seized at immigration/customs checkpoints . So it sounds really like as long as you have the ownership papers and registration , it does n't matter how many cars in your convoy :D
Certainly . Qantas flies them from Australia . <URL> They 're infrequent , but a few a year do fly down . I watched a documentary on it , it 's crazy that you can pay less for an ' inner ' seat where you do n't even get to see out the window without craning your neck ! From the site : The flight provides a full day of Antarctic experience . Our flight from Australia ranges between 9,500 -- 10,500 kms roundtrip ( approximately 12.5 hours ) depending on your departure city . Expert Antarctic expeditioners are onboard to talk on the polar environment and its history while video screenings depict life on the ground . Approximately three hours south of Australia , passengers will usually see the first scattered ice followed by dozens of icebergs and ice floes . We then cross the South Magnetic Pole where you will start to view the rugged mountainous topography of the Antarctic mainland .
Easily , just go for the <URL> route : You can experience the scenic Bergen Railway , the breathtaking Flåm Railway , the Aurlandsfjord , the narrow Nærøyfjord and the steep hairpin bends of Stalheimskleiva ( May-September ) . The link above is to a commercial tour agency who will arrange the whole thing if you want ( 8.5 hours end to end ) , but you can quite easily do it by yourself , especially from Bergen . Just plan ahead by checking out the train and ferry schedules , as they do n't run all that often ... and consider overnighting along the way , so you can catch some bits without all the other tourists doing the N-in-a-N loop !
Portland has an <URL> , especially the light rail and buses , that will serve you well for getting around Portland itself . If that 's the area that you intent to stay within then you can certainly get by without a car - although you still may find having one to be more convenient depending on exactly where you 're planning to go . However for me personally , no trip to Portland would be complete without a trip along the <URL> , and for that you 're going to need a car . If you can manage 2 days in the area I 'd suggest that you could easily do without a car for one day , and then rent a car for the day to do the trip along the Gorge .
You should encounter absolutely no problems . Hong Kong immigration are both efficient and pleasant . I have resided in Hong Kong for over 9 years and hold permanent residency . We receive both family and business visitors who regularly tour the surrounding region . Recently a colleague holding a Thai passport entered HK on the 4 June , left for Dubai on 5 June , returned on 19 June , left for Macau on 24 June returned to HK on 25 June and departed HK yesterday . They did not hold a visa , and at no point were they questioned or challenged as to their purpose of visit and/or frequency of entry/exit . Upon each entry you will be granted the amount of visa free days applicable to your passport . These can be chained together and there is no limit on the total number of days you can stay in one year , as long as you always exit and re-enter before each visa free period expires , and do not take paid employment or engage in other activities prohibited by your tourist status . My only advice would be to stick to one passport .
There 's an important distinction between leaving the US temporarily , and leaving permanently , which is as much as anything dictated by you returning to your place of residence . If you are in the US under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) and you leave the US for a few weeks to visit Canada ( or Mexico ) with an intent to return to the US then you are deemed to have only temporarily left the US for that period , and thus your 90 days carries through - even though you 're out of the country . In the days of the I-94W forms ( the green form you used to fill in when arriving in the US ) , you would actually keep your I-94W in your passport even when you left the US . If you are leaving US to return to your place of residence , then you are leaving permanently . In this case your VWP period would end when you left the country , and historically that 's when you would have turned in your I-94W . As you have a work visa to be in Canada , for the period of that visa Canada would be your place of residence . That means that every time you leave the US your visit will have deemed to have ended as you 've returned to your place of residence , and thus permanently left the US - which means that when you re-enter the US the VWP clock will be restarted . At the end of the day the Canada/Mexico condition is intended to stop people doing visa runs from the US to Canada/Mexico , thus getting another 90 days on their VWP . If it 's clear that 's not what you 're doing then you 'll have no issues . Do n't forget that to enter the US under the VWP you will first need to <URL> . ( Note : Usual provisions apply . IANAL , but I 've entered the US around 40 times both on VWP and on Visas so I know the processes fairly well ! If you want a definite answer , either contact <URL> , or talk to a qualified immigration lawyer )
I do n't have a Hostelworld membership , but I emailed them to see what the official stance is ( without anyone risking getting their card invalidated ) . From Louise Clark on the customer service team : Thanks for your email . Gold Cards are registered to one email address so all bookings made with that address will be automatically discounted . You can also enter the Gold Card number when using a different email address and the discount will still apply . This is not limited to a certain number of email addresses . So it looks like the answer is : enter in the membership number on as many bookings as you 'd like from as many email addresses you 'd like . :) Happy traveling !
If you travel during summer holiday season I would say forget it . All the tours are reserved , I was there in March ( the off-off season ) and they were doing a steady business . The outer parts are not ticketed , and the other castle ( Hohenschwangau ) is less busy . It is definitely worth the trip , I would say plan your travels around the ticket date , there are not all that many other attractions in the area so those destinations can be flexible .
Depends -- it would be more helpful if you could provide the details of the specific cruise you 're interested in . But as a rule of thumb , cruise lines figure the more paying passengers the better . Local cruise companies thus sell packages originating from all major cities visited , and it 's also quite common to do ' one-way ' cruises where people cruise one way and fly back . Problem is , these are usually sold as packages with the return flight included , you may have trouble sorting out a simple one-way . Contact the cruise operator ( not a travel agent ) directly and ask . On the other hand , if it 's a ' non-local ' cruise company doing something like a one-off <URL> from Alaska to Asia , they may not have the infrastructure to handle passengers boarding from random ports along the way . This is more the exception than the rule .
end question
start question
Is it rude to give up your seat in Japan ?
I live in Japan and every day commute with trains and metro . And can assure you that nobody will think you are rude by offering the seat . From my personal experience : I have a rule to always give up my seat to Disabled/injured people Pregnant women ( in Japan they wear a badge like this <URL> ) Elderly women and man People with huge bags ; often you 'll see women with gigantic , heavy bags they carry from shops The only thing is that I will confirm - many elderly people turn down the offer . Sometimes because they go out in the next station , sometimes they just do n't want to . But in any case they will give you a polite response . I actually feel more pressure to stay near the seat I 've given up , because Japanese will thank you many-many times after taking the seat and I feel shy of such attention for such a trivial thing . So long story short - feel free to show your kindness and do n't over-think about some people seeing it as rudeness . Especially in Japan where people are usually very polite .
This depends primarily on whether you booked the connection flight as a single ticket , or separately . If you booked the flights separately , missing the connection is entirely your risk . If you booked a single ticket , it 's the issuing airline 's responsibility to fulfill the contract and deal with any unforeseen circumstances . In almost all cases , the airline will put you an a later plane . In both cases , you may be entitled to compensation under regulations like <URL> or the the airline conditions that replaced <URL> after deregulation . Which one applies can be a tricky question . These regulatuions entitle you to some or all of the following : Acommodation , food and communication while you wait for a delayed flight or a missed connection . A cash compensation for longer delays . A choice of continuing the flight as soon as possible ( perhaps even with a different airline ) , at a later time of , or having it refunded . However , these may not be applicable to delays caused by " acts of god " , i.e. unforeseeable factors outside the control of the airline , which would include the case you describe . But at least in the case of the EU regulation , the first point ( accomodation , food , communication ) is required always , up to and including <URL> .
I think I found the answer . Most airport has this facility where you can drop-off ( store ) your carry one and pick it up before flight . There is usually a fee for it . <URL> 9 pounds/day <URL> 20 durham/day
Down is more dangerous . There are three factors contributing to this . When you need to decide on a slowdown in case of potential accident , you basically need to annihilate momentum , and when you are going up , gravity contributes to the total work needed to slow down . When you are going down , gravity works against your intent to slow down , and brakes alone against gravity cant do the same job as brakes plus gravity in case of going up . Second , brakes can ... well ... break . I know of a driver who actually burned his brakes while going down . It was a Russian military truck in Caucasus mountains with manual transmission and the driver was not that experienced with it . Third , when you brake your vehicle 's stability depends on the force on the brakes . When you brake hard as you go down , you can send the vehicle to a drift . I actually have experienced that in the center of Moscow on an extreme slope near the river . Drift can happen when you go up too because of the drag but in that case the car would likely slow down by itself due to gravity .
As a tall person with an ideal weight , you should n't worry about the width of the seat . What you should worry about is the pitch of the seat , which will give you a better idea of the leg room . If you wonder <URL> : Seat Pitch is the distance from any point on one seat to the exact same point on the seat in front or behind it . While it is not the exact equivalent of " legroom " , it does give a very good approximation of how much seat room you should expect . Bottom line : the more seat pitch the better . China airline 's 777 in economy has a seat pitch of a 32 " , which is pretty standard in many regular airlines around the world ( ± 1 " ) . Is it comfortable ? not really for a guy your height , but almost all other airlines have similar seat sizes and your best option is to get a seat in the emergency exit row where leg room is much better . Other option would be upgrading yourself to premium economy or business .
You are incorrect , cars are not numbered 1-8 and 11-18 , they are numbered 1-8 or 11-18 . From the webpage you link to : coach 1 to 8 or coach 11 to 18 . On any given trip , the cars will be either 1-8 or 11-18 . For the purposes of selecting a seat 1 and 11 are then the same as are 2 and 12 etc. . As for the two numbers , it seems to have to do with the direction of travel . The diagrams are not going to be an exact representation of the carriages ( as they have multiple rolling stock , that do vary ) . But seat number XX in carriage Y should be of a certain type ( e.g. window seat versus isle etc. )
When ? As a general rule , reservations for a given train open at 10am ( Japanese time ) one month before departure . For example , reservations for a train departing on May 20 open at 10am on April 20 . Reservations close when the train departs . Some things to note : If there is no " matching day " in the previous month , reservations open on the first day of the month of departure . For example , reservations for a train departing on May 31 open on May 1 . During busy travel periods , reservations may open earlier than normal . There is no set rule for when or how this happens ( it is announced in various ways , such as on JR websites and on posters in stations ) . For trains operating after midnight , the departure day is the day on which the train leaves its departure station . However , if you board the train after midnight , you must make a reservation for the day when you board . For example , reservations for the Sunrise Izumo leaving Izumoshi for Tokyo at 18:57 on May 20 open on April 20 . However , if I board this train in Osaka at 00:32 , I must make a reservation for May 21 ( but I can make this reservation on April 20 ) . Just like some trains are all-reserved , some others are all-non-reserved , and thus do not allow reservations ( at least for ordinary class seats ; they may have some reserved Green class ones ) . This is mostly the case for ordinary commuter trains , but also for some express trains such as Nasuno trains on the Tohoku Shinkansen between Tokyo and Koriyama . As mentioned at the bottom of <URL> , Hyperdia can be used to check the available seating options on a particular train . At ticket offices For most trains , this is the only way to make a reservation with a rail pass . The most common way to reserve a seat , especially for foreign travelers , is at ticket offices such as the Midori-no-madoguchi ( みどりの窓口 , lit . " green window " ) which can be found at most JR stations in Japan . ( Only the smallest stations , usually in rural areas , do not have one . ) It is not necessary to make the reservation at the departure station of the train ; there is usually a long wait line at the ticket offices in major stations , so doing it at a smaller one usually results in shorter waiting times . The business hours of the Midori-no-madoguchi at a given station ( if there is one ) can be found on its station information ( 駅情報 ) page on the operating company 's website , which can be found by just typing the station name in Japanese ( with the suffix 駅 ) into a search engine . For example the one at <URL> is open from 7:00 to 21:00 . The necessary information to make a reservation are the departure and arrival stations , and the date and time of departure . Also mention any specific request such as specific seats , and present your rail pass if you have one . For easier communication if you do not speak Japanese , you can just write the information on a piece of paper beforehand , or take a <URL> screenshot on your phone . Payment ( if necessary ) is by cash or credit card . Foreign cards are normally accepted . If paying by card , you will be asked for your signature ( not your PIN ) . At ticket machines <URL> can also be used with screen text in English , but their usage can be confusing if one is not familiar with the Japanese rail system , and they do not work with rail passes . Payment is again by cash or credit card ( if paying by card , you will be asked for your PIN ) . On machines displaying the <URL> , payment can also be made using the balance on a Suica or compatible IC card . Online in English <URL> and <URL> operate online reservation services in English , but they come with many caveats . They can also be used to just check seat availabilities . JR East 's service is the only rail-pass-friendly one , but it only allows reservations for travel within the <URL> ( in yellow/green ) . In addition , tickets must be picked up at a JR East station by 9pm the day before departure , and so it is not possible to reserve seats for trips on the day of arrival in Japan . Although the English website is part of the eki-net system mentioned below , tokudane discount tickets can not be purchased from it . Consult the website for the ( many ) other restrictions , especially regarding the times when reservations can be made . JR Hokkaido 's service allows reservations for travel within Hokkaido , and also for Shinkansen travel with departure and/or arrival in Hokkaido . It does not work with rail passes , and tickets must be picked up at a station in Hokkaido . If one wants to travel between Tokyo and Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto with a rail pass , it is not a bad idea to reserve a seat between Tokyo and Shin-Aomori on JR East 's website , as the northernmost section ( between Shin-Aomori and Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto ) is the least busy and can be reserved separately on arrival in Japan . In both cases , payment ( if necessary ) is by credit card only . A simple registration process is also required . Online in Japanese Each JR company operates an online reservation portal in Japanese , where reservations can be
How reliable am I ? Depends how much vin rouge I 've had ... Seriously , I do my best to keep the site updated , it 's an uphill task but if I know bustitution is over I update the site . Countries with lots of visitors eg Italy , Vietnam , South Africa tend to be very up to date , obscure countries such as the Congo or Sudan tend ( in all honesty ) to get less proactive attention and fewer reports from travellers but still get updated the moment I see a news item or Google alert or traveller 's report .
Regarding Hostelworld their business model is not around getting payments for the hostels . They are basically an hostel directory , with some sugar on it ( they also collect user reviews and have a booking management system for the hostels ) . The value that you pay for reservation is actually earned by these websites as commission . In other words : the down-payment is not part of the hostel earnings at all . In fact , if you cancel , in most cases they keep the initial fee and the hostel looses the booking without any earning . Booking.com is a bit different as far as I know , but It 's not 100 % guaranteed that you actually pay the hostel through it . Even though full payment is available and even though you input your credit card . This will probably vary from hostel to hostel , but your credit card is collect and it may actually happen that you need to pay when arriving to the hostel . I once asked why and they told me at the hostel that they had access to my information but they did n't have any agreements with payment gateways . Another option would be to contact the hostel directly to know if they provide any means of secure payment in advance . In any case be very careful . Do n't give numbers over telephone line and assure yourself that whatever payment method alternative they give you is actually secure .
Yes it is . You can make reservations for domestic trains and for trains to Montenegro via e-mail or telephone . You find the contact details on the <URL> .
Travel is certainly possible . <URL> has 120,000 inhabitants and <URL> on the Argentinian side has 60000 inhabitants ( with <URL> ) . Advisable depends of course on what you want to do . Wikipedia has useful information on climate : <URL> , at 41 ° 28 'S , has 6.0 -- 12.7 ° C in May : Much further south , <URL> ( 53 ° 10 ' S ) has 1.0 -- 6.4 ° C in May : Cold is relative , but if you take appropriate clothing you should have no problems travelling in May . Disclaimer : I have never been to Patagonia , all information is from the world wide web .
X Rays do n't penetrate metal . Circuit boards have a lot of metal and solder , making it easy to conceal items within . If the TSA ca n't see it , they get nervous . Hence the ' take out your laptop . ' ( Why they do n't require that of iPads , I do n't know . ) Now , all this being said , you can get bags that have laptop compartments . The only requirement is that they can see just the laptop and nothing else in there . This way , you do n't need to take it out . This trick , along with the " put all my electronics in my suit jacket , means that I get through the scanner as follows : belt and shoes , with my suit jacket in one bin unzip my backpack so that the laptop is flat and the rest is laying out in front my toilettries bag ( an old pencil case connected to the bag via a carbiner ) hooked to the top . I walk through , put my shoes and belt back on zip my bag back up put my jacket back on I 'm through in like 40 seconds .
I found a decent ticket , 12 hours , direct from YVR to NRT , for $ 1200 CAD . Thinking I should snatch that up . $ 1,200 CAD should be considered a reasonable round-trip price from North America to Japan . Sometimes you see lower ( though rarely below $ 1000 ) , and sometimes much much higher . I would say that is around the average price these last few years , based on the flight price research I periodically do for myself or acquaintances making the trans-Pacific hop . I always hear different things . Early ? Late ? Certain time specific to the season ? You likely hear different things because there are very few universally applicable rules to flight-pricing , especially for trans-Pacific flights . Sometimes the best price is six months in advance , and sometimes it is a few weeks - it mostly all depends on that particular flight . I can say for sure that the most expensive time to fly to/from Japan is the New Year 's season , the first week of May ( Japan 's " Golden Week " ) , and the middle of August ( Japan 's " Obon " Festival of Lights ) . Scoring an average-price ticket during these times will be harder than most other times of the year . However , September is not an unusually busy season in Japan . 2 ) A friend may want to come with me by buying a ticket in 1 month from now . Does it sound like it should be OK ? I figure he probably ca n't get the seat beside me at that time , or maybe even the same plane One month in advance is pushing it a little bit , but it is not unheard of to find a reasonable ticket only one month in advance . I advise buying sooner if possible , and it is very unlikely that you 'll be on the same airplane ( or if you are , your friend would have to pay a lot of money ) .
Many people use <URL> 's <URL> for this exact purpose ! I 'm in the <URL> and <URL> groups and I would say the larger part of the traffic in both groups is travellers wanting to meet up with other travellers at their destination . Note that you must join each group you wish to read , which of course means you also need to be a member of couchsurfing . ( You do not have to be a " verified " member , so you do n't have to pay any money . )
An important factor is that seats closer to an exit improve your chances after a crash landing , in case the plane catches fire ( very common ) or sinks underwater . Contradicting the Popular Mechanics study , the <URL> that A seat up to five rows from an exit offers a better than even chance of escaping if there 's a fire , according to researchers from the University of Greenwich commissioned by the Civil Aviation Authority . When seated six or more rows from an exit , however , ' the chances of perishing far outweigh those of surviving ' . Whether the seat is on the aisle or not only makes a ' marginal ' amount of difference , the study shows . The scientists checked the accounts of 2,000 survivors in 105 air accidents around the world . When it comes to surviving a fire , those seated in an aisle had a ' marginally ' higher chance of surviving -- at 65 per cent -- than those seated by a window ( 58 per cent ) . Passengers at the front of the aircraft had a 65 per cent chance of escape , while those at the rear had only a 53 per cent chance .
While the English version of the USJ website does n't note the special birthday pass , the <URL> does : If the link disappears , the plan is called " バースデープラン " ( Birthday Plan ) . Here are the search terms if you need to regoogle it : <URL> or <URL> You do n't have to read Japanese to check out the page and see that you get a small discount . The one day-pass goes from JPY7200 ( with tax ) to Y6700 ( with tax ) , for children from Y4980 to 4580 with tax . There 's a similar discount for the 2-day pass ( to Y10 ,288 and Y7241 for children with tax ) . You also get a special sticker and a character ( Marilyn Monroe ) will pose with you for a birthday photo . There is also some fine print : you must be a <URL> ( membership itself is free but needs to be done online ) . You can enter the park either in your birthday month or the following month . You can buy 1-day or 2-day passes for yourself and for 5 accompanying family members . You can order the tickets up to three months before your birthday month . It looks like they go out of their way to make it difficult for non-Japanese language speakers to buy it , so I 'd recommend asking a local friend to help . You can buy the tix online through their website or at the gate ( but if buying the ticket at the gate , you will still have to pre-register as a Club Universal member and print out the coupon that they will issue you during your birthday month ) . I.e. , you ca n't walk up without pre-registering and expect to get the discount .
To get from Görlitz to Zgorzelec you just have to cross a bridge . If you go up hill for a while from the old town bridge ( Altstadtbrücke ) , which is a pedestrian bridge , you will get to a place where there are some shops and also a Kantor , which had reasonable exchange rates at least a few weeks ago and charged no commission . It 's very small , just a door in a line of shops , but it has a sign so it 's hard to miss . Depending on what you want to buy/do in Zgorzelec , you have to take into account that bigger shops are far away from the border , so you should take a bicycle or try to catch a bus . Also , if you just want to buy cigarettes or alcohol , there are small shops for that just across the bridge , and I was told by people from Görlitz that they also take euros there . ( But I do n't know how good their exchange rates are )
From my friend 's experience , It is possible . However you should do arrangement with the hotel prior your arrival in the hotel .
Hippietrail suggested making this a full answer , so here you go : For dengue , the answer is emphatically no . There are four strains of dengue fever , and while getting one of them confers life-long immunity to that strain , each successive infection with dengue of a different strain carries with it a considerably higher risk of either dengue haemorrhagic fever or dengue shock syndrome . You really , really do n't want either one . This , incidentally , is why you wo n't be seeing a vaccine for dengue fever for quite some time - researchers are justifiably concerned that unless they can confer 100 % immunity for all four strains , the vaccine will actually increase the risk for severe disease . For malaria , its something of a harder question based on a number of different factors , but its not something I would ever count on over malaria prophylaxis , even if you were staying very long term .
From a former cabin crew 's point of view , there are two issues here : 1 . Waking the passengers up : This is done for two reasons actually : Safety reason : It is a good practice for the airlines to wake passengers up whenever possible , the real reason behind that is checking if the passenger is ok or not . Many cases of very sick passengers ( incapacitated ) were discovered this way . Sometimes the crew fails to wake up the passenger and call a doctor onboard , doctor comes and discovers something wrong and saves the passenger ! . ( I have personally experienced that ) . Sometimes dead passengers are discovered this way . Furthermore , this practice is embedded in most airlines ' safety policies . Service reason : If the crew did not wake up the sleeping passengers at the time of the service , once the passengers wake up they will ask for a meal . This is not easy for many reasons , the meals can not be re-heated again ( food poisoning risk ) and most likely the crew will heat all of the meals for that service at once so no extra frozen meals available . The crew also can not use the meals from the second service before its time , also heating the meals takes from 20-30 minutes and there will be no time especially after the second service . So to save their selves from some problems , wake them up and ask them , that 's the best for both crew and passengers . 2 . Asking the passengers to put the seat in upright position : Now this does not really make sense , most of the airlines interior manufacturers have solved this issue and not the space nor the position of the opened tray table is affected by the seat position ( either upright of fully reclined ) because tray tables are not originated from the seat itself , they are originated from the seat legs which are fixed and do not move . So reclining the seat will only makes the upper area smaller but does not actually move the table backward . I worked for years as cabin crew on different models and different interior designs and never seen this issue . Yes reclined seats can make it harder for you to enter the row because the upper are will be more narrow but for sure it will not affect the lower area where the tray table is . Many airlines do distribute a " Do Not Disturb " sticker in long-haul flights to people who wants to sleep undisturbed will stick it so crew will not wake them up during services . First and Business classes passengers do not have to worry about this because they usually have more space between rows and in-seat tray tables . To answer your question , why do they do it in this airline , I really do not know and I can not know , but I am sure they have a good reason . Either they have a bad interior design or just some policy for a reason I am not aware of . As you can see in the photo above , the tray table is attached to the seat leg which is fixed . Reclining the seat while the table is down will not affect the table position . Otherwise the table will also be tilted !
end question
start question
Can I get a schengen visa from Switzerland if I am to stay longer in France ?
No , Switzerland is supposed to reject the application and invite you to apply to the French consulate . Even staying the same length of time in both countries might not be enough , as attending the conference is clearly the main reason for your trip , which makes France the main destination . In practice , you could still try . In principle , they should not refuse the visa but merely decline to process the application , which means that you should get back the visa fee and the documents you submitted and there would be no record of a negative decision . So the damage should be limited and you do n't risk much by trying . But it 's still unlikely to work ( and it does take some time , obviously ) .
You can take your bike along in most trains , but not in the ICE . It 's probably best to check when you look up the connection online ( you can even use it as a search criterium ) . In some local trains you do n't need an extra ticket . It seems to <URL> , including the time of day . In <URL> , you always need a ticket for your bike as well as a reservation . Yes , <URL> . It costs 25.50 EUR per bike , and an additional 8 EUR for international delivery ( only to Luxembourg , Austria and Switzerland ) . Note that the bike has to be wrapped ( you can order a wrapping for 5.90 EUR ) .
I do n't think they would issue a new overlapping visa . Since it 's all one trip , you should in principle have applied to one consulate with documentation covering the stay in both countries . Since you already have that visa , I am not sure what your options are now . One possibility could be to have Spanish visa revoked and start a new application but that sounds like a lot of hassle . If you do get a new visa , traveling on two visas is not a problem and you would n't need to leave the area , see <URL>
You need to check with the hotel , not immigration . The hotel can report you as absconded and this will cause you all kinds of trouble when you exit the country . To be perfectly safe , I would check-in to the hotel that had the reservation , and then check-out later for my other hotel . There are rumors that hotels do report guests to immigration - but this is a post-fact reporting issue and as far as I know , there is no live link between the hotel and immigration . The reason I mention this is because frequently I have flown in for a day trip where I do n't book a hotel and this has caused no problems with immigration .
According to <URL> and <URL> , the most closer railroad station is Alpiglen : . According sattelite map , you 'll get beautiful view from there . Not sure where are you getting from to the Eiger , so you can <URL> . If you have more specific information , please provide it . Update : <URL> , route and prices are ( used local time just for example ) : 30.06.11 Stainach-Irdning 09:37 - Bischofshofen 10:48 - from <URL> without VORTEILScard 30.06.11 Bischofshofen 11:08 - Mannheim Hbf 16:56 - from <URL> without VORTEAILScard 30.06.11 Mannheim Hbf 17:36 - Interlaken Ost 21:56 - unknown by oebb.at , unfortunately , but by <URL> - from <URL> 01.07.11 Interlaken Ost 06:04 - Grindelwald 06:38 - unknown by oebb.at , unfortunately , but by <URL> - from <URL> 01.07.11 Grindelwald 07:17 - Alpiglen 07:38 - unknown by oebb.at , unfortunately , and by <URL> there is a bug with no founded station , but I think it is not very expensive Also you can see [ this question ] [ 11 ] to get some more sites to search prices and trains .
You 're right that applying to the French consulate is fraught with difficulty and likely not to work . But you could try , if you are completely upfront ( do n't cheat and lie about your intentions ) , you do n't risk a refusal ( which would have all sorts of unpleasant circumstances ) but only a rejection ( the consulate will promptly decline to process your application and you should get your fee and documents back ) . If you try this , join a letter explaining why to your application , it might help too . A few other things you might try is <URL> ( if needed in a neighbouring country you can access easily ) or keep watching the schedule to see if new appointment slots open . In any case , three month waiting time is not acceptable ( people are not supposed to apply more than three months in advance ! ) so you can certainly try to contact the German consulate ( politely , do n't act entitled or angry even if you and I know they are at fault ) and ask if they can suggest a solution .
Like any country , a visa is just an endorsement allowing you a specific period of time in a country based on your citizenship ( and other potential factors ) . However , once you 're at the border , the border agents / authorities can and will still make a further assessment . They might evaluate : your ability to support yourself while in the country your intent in the country ( you might be on a tourist visa , but they suspect you 're coming to work/do business ) your possessions ( eg if found with something illegal ) your history ( some countries wo n't let you in if your passport shows you 've been to countries that they 're not fans of ) as a result , yes , even if you have a legitimate visa , it 's still possible ( generally unlikely , but possible ) for you to be rejected at the border . For another question we have which is related to this , see <URL>
It 's perfectly normal to stay in several Schengen countries and arrive/depart from different countries , the Schengen area has been created to make things like that easier . You do n't need to worry about the plane tickets per se but you do need to present a coherent itinerary . Explain why you want to go to both countries , what you will do there ( with evidence like invitation , bookings , etc. as applicable ) and <URL> .
Kosovo : Based on the list <URL> from the Kosovo Ministry of Foreign Affairs , you do indeed need a visa as an Indian citizen . Based on <URL> , it seems you can arrange to mail your passport to one of the visa issuing locations . Based on the <URL> page , there is no requirement to show up in person to submit the visa request . Further , one of those locations is in Istanbul . Additionally , based on the QA website linked , and the <URL> section of the Kosovo MOFA , it seems holders of multi-entry Schengen visas do not need a special visa to enter Kosovo . However , it is unclear from the documentation if that visa is valid for the full 90 days , or for only 15 days ( <URL> ) . If you take a look at a map of Kosovo , you will see that it only borders Serbia to the North . While not recognized by Serbia , Kosovo is recognized by over 100 nations and has permanent membership in several major global institutions . I suggest <URL> . However , if you plan to stay away from the northern part of Kosovo , there seems to be no reason why you would need a Serbian visa . The information in that post is echoed/backed-up by <URL> . Further , <URL> that Serbian border guards might deny entry into Serbia if they see a stamp from Kosovo . Turkey : For transiting , as long as you do not leave the airport terminal , you should not have any need for a Turkish visa . This is common practice is most countries . Also , see <URL> . Based on <URL> , if you wish to visit Turkey as an Indian citizen you do indeed need a visa . Much like Kosovo , there is a special provision that will fast-track you for an e-Visa if you already have a Schengen visa .
Guayaquil is a better bet for departure and the drive from Cuenca is spectacular . Round trip from Guayaquil to Arequipa presently costs $ 321 on LAN . Keep in mind that prices fluctuate and will go up as you get closer to your travel date because the cheaper seats get used first . Figure 2 or 3 hours drive from Cuenca to Guayaquil . For your trip , Guayaquil-Lima-Arequipa is the route to take . You can save about $ 60 if you take an extra 7 hour drive from Guayaquil to Piura but I think you would not have much savings left when you factor transport and hotel which may be needed between . If you do it all on a single airline , there is less hassle but you have fewer choices . You may look at doing the Lima-Arequipa way on <URL> but it looks like doing both with LAN is cheaper at this time . The road from Lima to Arequipa has some sites to keep you busy but it is desolated and long . Figure around 12 hours excluding stops . The driving conditions are very good though along the entire Peru coast , although I have only done it both ways twice and prefer to fly one way . To get variety , once I did the northern coast ( Lima-Mancora ) and came back through the cordilera but that is considerably slower and with very difficult driving conditions for large segments . Definitely Guayaquil to Lima should be a flight if you are not interested in the area . There are some gems of cultural interest , colonial towns but lots of empty space in between .
US Citizens DO require a visa to enter Turkey . Presuming you are only visiting for tourism ( which it sounds like you are ) , you can obtain the Visa ( the " sticker " you refer to ) at your point of entry . After you enter the airport but before immigration there is a window where you simply hand over the visa fee and they will put the Visa into your passport . You then proceed to immigration who will stamp the sticker . The visa fee varies depending on your nationality , but when I was there a few years ago it was US$ 20 for most countries , more for Canadians ( US$ 80 I think ) and a few other countries . There 's no interview/forms/etc involved , it 's really nothing more than a " pay the fee and get your visa " setup . The visa is good for 90 days . You can also obtain a visa in advance from the Turkish consulate , but unless you 're going for more than tourism there 's really no point .
Having a UK indefinite leave to remain has nothing to do in this case , only the passport you have determines if you need a Schengen visa or not and since you have a South African passport you 'll need to apply for a Schengen visa in advance . Sources : <URL> <URL>
This seems to be in violation of their stated policy . See <URL> which for " international to USA " states " Please note that your bags will be automatically transferred to your connecting flight . "
You need to visit the Danish embassy/consulate ( or perhaps an embassy of another Schengen country which handles applications for Denmark in your current location ) , and fill the <URL> provided there . Usually you will be asked for the following documents : A copy of your passport a long with your original passport . Passport size photo , clear , no head cover , no smile , light background . Bank statement for the last six months to show that you can cover the trip expenses . Or , a job certificate from your employer showing your income . Invitation letters from sponsors ( if available ) Application fee ( differs from embassy to another , country to another ) These were the usual requests , sometimes they ask for more or less . It also depends on the country you request the visa from , but generally getting the Schengen visa is easy as long as you provided the papers they ask for . Remember , it takes around 2 weeks usually for the visa to be issued .
For a variety of reasons , unlike most countries , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . To repeat with a footnote , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . * For a foreign traveler , even a Canadian , this is a darn good reason to <URL> * The Transit Without Visa ( TWOV ) and International-to-International ( ITI ) programs were suspended in 2003 ; all passengers connecting from and to international flights must obtain a <URL> or be covered under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . If your flight is " <URL> , " say SNN-JFK or YUL-DCA , you will be processed for health , agriculture , customs , and passport/immigration at your departing airport . Your flight into the U.S. in effect becomes a " domestic " one and your transit " domestic " as well . But Costa Rica does not have a pre-clearance treaty with the U.S. , so that is besides the point . In other words , there is no transit lounge in an airport where through passengers can wait to transfer to an outbound flight . Upon landing at your gateway airport , all passengers will disembark directly to a processing facility where they will claim their bags and go through customs and immigration procedures for entry into the United States . An immigration officer can not just take your word that you are immediately connecting to an outbound international flight , because once you have been stamped in , you are inside the United States , and could simply leave the airport if you wanted to . So if they have cause to deny you admission to the U.S. , they will deny you . As when you are denied entry to any country , the airline that brought you there is required to fly you back to your port of embarkation on the first available flight . I do not know if you would even be allowed to use your onward ticket . So , given the risk of having your trip ruined , it seems a worthy investment to avoid connecting in the U.S. and/or to get some legal advice on removing whatever blocks there are to your admission to the U.S.
The exact limitations of the eVisitor ( subclass 651 ) visa are listed in the " <URL> " act : 651.611 Conditions 8115 , 8201 , 8527 and 8528 must be imposed . The description of these conditions is spelled out in the <URL> section : 8115 The holder must not work in Australia other than by engaging in a business visitor activity . 8201 ( 1 ) While in Australia , the holder must not engage , for more than 3 months , in any studies or training . 8527 The holder must be free from tuberculosis at the time of travel to , and entry into , Australia . 8528 The holder must not have one or more criminal convictions , for which the sentence or sentences ( whether served or not ) are for a total period of 12 months duration or more , at the time of travel to , and entry into , Australia . Therefore you are free to study in Australia under the eVisitor visa , as long as you do n't do it for more than 3 months .
I do n't know how diligent each and every consulate is in enforcing this rule but in principle you should not be able to do that . Here is article 6 of the Schengen Visa Code : Consular territorial competence An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Point 2 provides a bit of leeway and point 1 could theoretically allow you to submit your application elsewhere and have it forwarded to the proper consulate but I am not aware of any Schengen countries offering this . To the best of my knowledge , you must generally be a resident in the UK to apply to one of the consulates there . Also note that visa applications for virtually all Schengen countries in London are handled by third-party outsourcing companies like VFS Global or TLS Contact . As a regular tourist , your application wo n't even reach the relevant consulate . I have n't check them all but the websites from the embassies of <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> or <URL> all contain language to that effect .
Rossio / Chiado area are both very good options . And so is near Parque Eduardo VII though I have some comments here : If it 's near the Rotund ( Marquês ) , it 's practicaly downtown , it 's perfectly walkable . It 's no longer than 10 min for Bairro Alto . You have the begining of Avenida da Liberdade right there and right after starts Rossio . You can find many ( good ) restaurants along the way . This is a very important and beautiful Avenue . If it 's in the upper part of PE VII , than you can add an extra 10 min to arrive to Bairro Alto or anywhere else downtown . It 's , of course , walkable as well , but a bit more . It depends on your likes/dislikes . Regarding subway : depending on where you stay near PEXVII you have several choices for the station : Marques , Parque or S. Sebastiao . Subway closes around 1AM .
As long as you have a UK visa I do n't see why your expiring residence permit should matter . Make sure you enter the UK with the UK visa and not with the residence card .
It 's sometimes difficult to find the right information but everything is somewhere <URL> . Wikipedia <URL> . Some embassies or government websites from the various Schengen countries also provide useful summaries . Legally , the main source for all this is the <URL> . Here is a step-by-step guide through the rules to decide if you need a visa : 1 . Can you enter the Schengen area ? If you can enter the Schengen area , you can also transit there . You can enter the Schengen area if you are an EU citizen , hold a Schengen visa , a long-stay visa or residence permit from one of the Schengen countries or come from a country whose citizens do n't need a visa to visit the Schengen area . If any of these apply , you can stop here , you do n't need a visa . If none of these apply , read further . The list of countries whose citizens do n't need a visa to enter the Schengen area can be found on <URL> . They are also colored green on <URL> . 2 . Can you transfer without leaving the international area of the airport ? Many airports in Europe have an international area with transfer/check-in counters , waiting area , sometimes lounges , restaurants , shops <URL> before the border checkpoint where the police check the passports of passengers entering the Schengen area . Gates for non-Schengen destinations can be accessed from this area , whereas domestic and Schengen-bound flights depart from other parts of the airport . Whether you can transit without leaving this area will depend on your specific connection ( airport/terminal , airline , time ) . For example , <URL> , so that it 's not possible to remain in the international area for an overnight transfer . Luggage belts are typically after the passport check so if your luggage can not be checked through to a destination outside of the Schengen area , you will also have a problem . Finally , as passengers ' passports do n't have to be checked on flights within the Schengen area , if you have two stopovers in the Schengen area ( for example Mumbai-Vienna-Frankfurt-Chicago or Nairobi-Zurich-Frankfurt-Chișinău ) , you will have to leave the international area and go through the border checkpoint to catch your intra-Schengen flight . Same thing if you need to change airports . If you have to leave the international area to make your transfer , you can not transit without a visa and you need a full Schengen visa ( and not merely an " airport transit visa " ) . If you can stay in the international area ( " transit airside " ) , read further . 3 . Do citizens of your country require a visa to transit airside ? If you have come so far , it means you come from a country whose citizens require a visa to enter the Schengen area . But there is still a distinction between two categories of countries among them . While most people can transit airside without a visa , citizens of a smaller list of countries need an " airport transit visa " even if they do n't want to go through the border checkpoint and enter the Schengen area . Where things get complicated is that the list of countries whose citizens need an airport transit visa is slightly different from one Schengen country to the other . There is a list for the whole Schengen area ( <URL> , dark red/burgundy on the <URL> ) but individual Schengen member states can also add countries to the list . They have to inform the Commission , which keeps a list of all these requirements ( <URL> , see also the same Wikipedia article ) . If your country is not on either of these lists , stop here , you do n't need a visa . On the other hand , if your country is on one of the lists ( the general Europe-wide list or the one from the country where you are going to transit ) , you might need an " airport transit visa " but read further as there are some exceptions . 4 . Are there other rules that could allow you to transit without a visa ? If your transfer requires an airport transit visa , there might still be a way to transit without a visa as the Schengen Visa code provides for a number of exceptions for people who hold some other visas or residence permits . Note that those exceptions only apply to the airport transit visa requirement . If you need to enter the Schengen area ( see question 2 ) , these exceptions do not apply . Specifically , you are exempted from the airport transit visa requirement if you hold a valid visa from an EU country ( that 's the whole EU , not only the Schengen area so also Ireland , the UK , Cyprus , Bulgaria , Romania , and Croatia ) , Canada , Japan or the <URL> . You are also exempted if you have a residence permit from one of these countries or from Andorra or San Marino . If that 's your case , you are exempted even if you are not traveling to this country . If you hold such a visa or residence permit , you can transit without a visa , no matter your citizenship or your destination . If you do n't , you will need a visa . Furthermore , if you just used the visa ( so that it 's not valid anymore but expired recently ) , you can still transit without a visa in the Schengen area for the return trip . This rule does not fit
end question
start question
How late do the 200E bus and Metro 3 run from Budapest airport into the city ?
After hunting around on the <URL> , I 've found the answer . There 's a handy <URL> available on their site , if you dig down enough In summary : From 3:30 am until 11pm , there 's a 200E bus every 7-8 minutes , which will connect you with Metro line 3 Between 11pm and just after midnight , there 's a 200E roughly every 15 minutes , but you have to change at Határ út M for a 9xx bus to the city From 00:21 until 03:30 , there 's a 900 night bus roughly every hour Exact timings vary , so it seems worth <URL> if you think you might be very late . The latest PDF should be findable from the <URL>
I remember transiting at Zurich Airport a couple of years ago ( both flights on one Swiss ticket ) and arriving airside , so I guess that means yes for you . <URL> It 's not super-clear but I read Arriving Schengen and non-Schengen passengers are handled in separate areas of the Airside Center and reach the Airport Center by different routes , with non-Schengen passengers first passing through immigration controls . as confirming the above . Finally <URL> is in agreement with that .
Usually flight attendants assigned on first and business classes make a quick head count after boarding is done . You can pass this if the class is almost full . In addition to that there are some techniques used to make sure that only people with the right boarding passes sit there , that 's why there is always flight attendants in first and business classes during the boarding time . You might think they are there to help you sit or to help you with your jacket , that 's true but they are also there to check your boarding pass either by asking you directly or by looking at it while it 's in your hand ( many airlines have different boarding pass colors for different classes ) . Also in many airlines flight attendants are asked to check the passengers names before serving to make them feel welcomed , if your name is not in the seat plan then you are busted . Out of personal experience as a cabin crew , with some luck there is somehow a chance of succeeding in sneaking into first or business class even with all what 's mentioned above , especially in big planes and when first/business class is almost full . What are the consequences ? well , the maximum would be paying the difference between economy and first or business class and big embarrassment . Again , out of personal experience passengers always say that they thought this is their seat ( AKA playing dumb ) and we can not do anything other than sending them back to their original seat or sometimes leave them continue . Finally , if the same door is used to board passengers from all classes then your chances are higher and you playing dumb if they catch you will be more acceptable .
This travelcard is valid for all trams and buses ( including the night buses ) in Budapest and some close suburbs ( including the airport ) , on the HÉV suburban lines within the city limits ( a separate suburban network that 's pretty much like the metro ) , as well as on the BKK ferry . It is n't valid on the main suburban trains ( not operated by BKK ) nor on the funicular . The 5/30 card is basically a booklet of five 24-hour cards ( note that you must not detach them from the booklet : if even one page is torn out , the booklet is invalid ) . The sales desk marks the valid 30-day period ( if you get it from a machine , it should ask you for the starting date ; if you get it from a clerk , they might assume the current day if you do n't say anything ) . Each card is valid 24 hours from the date indicated , e.g. you can use it on one afternoon and the following morning . You indicate the date for each page by marking the start date and time at the back . I 'm pretty sure you do n't need to stamp it ( I do n't think the card would even fit in the validator ) . Here 's a picture showing the back of a page , from a <URL> :
According to the <URL> , the only places that the 3-day pass ( " Tokyo Subway 3-Day Ticket " ) is available in the Tokyo metropolitan area are Haneda and Narita airports and Bic Camera ( Yurakucho , Shinjuku , Akasaka Mitsuke , Ikebukuro , Shibuya East , Shibuya Hachiko , Shinjuku East , Shinjuku West , and Sofmap Akihabara ) . If you buy it at Bic Camera , you will have to show your passport in order to prove that you are eligible . ビックカメラ有楽町店 、 ビックロ ビックカメラ新宿東口駅前店 、 ビックカメラ赤坂見附駅店 、 ビックカメラ池袋本店 、 ビックカメラ渋谷東口店 、 ビックカメラ渋谷ハチ公口店 、 ビックカメラ新宿東口店 、 ビックカメラ新宿西口店 、 ソフマップ秋葉原本店 ※ 訪日外国人旅行者のみ購入可能 ※ パスポート等にて旅行者であることを確認します 。 If you are in Asakusa , the nearest would be the Sofmap Akihabara store or the Bic Camera Akasaka Mitsuke store .
I have unfortunately no statistics on the Railjets being on time . However , I have an answer to the second part of your question : If that train does n't go [ ... ] will my ticket be valid for the 13:08 -18:19 ? If it is expected that the first train that will leave after the departure time as printed on your ticket , will arrive at least one hour after the arrival time as printed on your ticket , you have the choice between : Full refund for the ticket , under some conditions . Re-routing or continuation of your route to the final destination at the earliest opportunity , plus a compensation of 25 % of the ticket price ( if the delay is more than one hour but less than two hours ) , or a compensation of 50 % of the ticket price ( if the delay is more than two hours ) . Re-routing or continuation of your route at another time at your convenience . In this case , the second option is the most favorable for you of course . If you book your tickets with the ÖBB or with Eurail , these terms apply . Note : This answer simplifies the terms . I highly recommend to read the actual terms , linked below . Source : <URL> , <URL> .
Web site of Istanbul city buses is <URL> ( in turkish ) . To the left , there is a form labelled " Hat Arama " . Typing 83O in this form , then clicking on " Saat " button below gives timetable for this line . Copy/paste the ( long ) URL to Google translation gives first departure from Taksim at 6:50 AM .
Update , 2/27/15 : In approximately 7 days from the writing of this edit , it is possible ( Likely , in the opinion of this author ) , that <URL> . While similar to the shutdown that occurred in 2013 , this current budgetary impasse does not apply to most government agencies . Parks , museums , etc. , should continue to operate as usual . The only government workers affected by this shutdown are DHS staff , such as Customs and Border Protection , TSA , and Immigration and Nationalization employees . Most of these employees are considered ' essential ' , and will thus be required to report to work , even in the event of a shutdown , but they will be working without pay . Expect them to be grumpy , and cut them a little slack . They may also be shorthanded , or short on supplies , as their funding has been abruptly severed . Document processing , and other services that go through an office will probably severely delayed , if not completely halted for the duration . Again , this should not affect any national parks , museums , or tourism sites , and the FAA/Air Traffic Control are similarly unaffected . Expect delays when dealing with security , customs , and border crossings however . You should n't notice much impact on the actual getting around part of travel . Public transport , as well as things like highway maintenance and management are all done at the state level , and are unaffected by short term federal government shutdowns . Similarly , the TSA , FAA , and Border Patrol are all continuing to operate , with their employees being paid on the resumption of government activity . AMTRAK is a privately owned enterprise ; while they receive federal subsidies , they should be able to continue operating at full capacity for the foreseeable future . Where you will notice a lack of activity is in trying to use other government services . As a traveller , the primary impact you 'll see here is , of course the National Parks Service . This means parks and various monuments and historic sites are closed . This includes the Smithsonian museums in Washington , DC . Do keep in mind however , that much of the nations parkland , as well as many historic sites and monuments and museums are not federally maintained or operated , and at those facilities , it should be business as usual . <URL> , it wo n't be completely shut down . For the most part , as a visitor , you should n't notice much impact from the shutdown . If it drags out for more than a few weeks , the lack of available funds could cause larger issues , but for now , as a foreigner , you can safely not worry about it . ( N.B. Because of its peculiar governmental status , visitors to Washington D.C. specifically might experience a larger impact than visitors to other cities . In particular , most sites of tourist interest in DC are federally operated and will be closed . YMMV . ) For further details , <URL>
Mileage runs are absolutely still possible , it 's just a lot more complicated than it used to be and there 's no easy way to find them . For example , a simple " cents per mile " counter is useless these days , because almost all airlines have switched to awarding different amounts of miles for the same flight depending on the fare class , not to mention the byzantine complexity of different frequent flyer programs counting and awarding miles differently , bonuses for people who already have status , promotions etc etc , and the remaining deals are often found at the intersection of these . Following a specialist forum like <URL> remains your best bet for finding good deals . As an example , " <URL> " fares for any domestic JAL flight in Japan can be had for & yen ; 10,000 a pop ( actual value up to & yen ; 45,000 ) , which is great value in itself , and the cherry on top is that these award full miles on most oneworld frequent flyer programs -- but you ca n't even book Visit Japan fares online , so it 's not even theoretically possible to construct an engine that can find this . What would kill off mileage runs for good is switching to a simple " 1 mile per $ 1 paid " scheme . As discussed in <URL> , airlines all over the world are increasingly moving in this direction ; for example , for years now , Singapore Airlines has only awarded its highest status ( " PPS " ) to people who spend at least S$ 25,000 in cold , hard cash per calendar year . As far as I know , while nobody has gone whole hog yet , I suspect it 's just a matter of time until this happens , and a lot of hotel award programs already operate on this basis . And a personal opinion : I fly enough that doing more of it purely for Internet airline points has always struck me as silly . There are easier ways to both optimize point collection , like choosing your credit cards carefully and maximizing usage , and to get the most out of the points you have collected . There are some absolute gold mines to be found in the award charts .
Mt. Pleasant is a small town of fewer than 9,000 residents in a rural county ; there is no municipal mass transportation available . I do see listings for two or three taxi companies ( A2z and Barnes , and sometimes others ) , so you might call ahead to see if they will have cars waiting for the train . Mt. Pleasant is the nearest Amtrak station to Iowa City , home to the huge University of Iowa , but Iowa City taxis may not be interested ( or licensed ) to give you a ride locally within Henry County .
The BKK has a handy list about <URL> in Hungarian but if you know the word " Közért " means " Grocery store " ( roughly ) then you can see one open 5am-10pm at the Népliget metró ( underground ) station . Also , it says the Relay store under ground is open from 4:30 am ( the one in the bus station above ground opens at 5:30 am ) and while their primary focus is newspapers , magazines and such they also sell candy bars and similar as you can see on this <URL> picture on the official Relay store page . I ca n't remember for sure but they might even have sandwiches . The Lipóti Pékség ( = Lipóti Bakery , VERY YUMMY ! not only their pastries but they partner with Cserpes diaries and they have some seriously tasty stuff ) <URL> says it 's also open from 5am . Similarly , they might have sandwiches but I am not sure either as I have n't been at this location .
Short : I do n't know the real world answer , but , based on the assumptions listed below , on a standard 10,000 foot international runway a fully laden A380 will begin to be in trouble at much over 1 minute and in deep trouble at about 70 seconds ( eg removing the pieces of perimeter fence from the landing gear may be problematic ) . The 45 seconds or so that I 've experienced in a 747 felt " much too long " . If you wanted to do the longest possible run " just for fun " a craft with a very low takeoff velocity on a 12,000 foot runway could toddle into the air after more than 2 minutes of takeoff run , with room to spare . I have experienced somewhere in the range of 60 to 100 airline takeoffs in the last 5 years ( trips blur , I should make a record ) . I roughly note the time taken for most but not all takeoffs . I do not record the results but my impression is that they are typically longer on average now than they were 5 years ago . I 'm told ( no reference ) that longer takeoff runs use less fuel . In my experience mid 20 second runs happen , high 20 's to low 30s ' are more usual . I have had one run which was well over 40 seconds - I was getting mildly concerned :-) . I asked the pilot about it afterwards and he said it was not exceptional with a heavy load . International runways are typically 10,000 feet long . Some are around 12,000 feet - but the added length is usually aimed at allowing very heavily loaded freight planes to land . Assume A 12,000 foot runway Liftoff speed of 120 mph = 176 fps = 192 kph = 53 m/s ( which is about 66 % of an A380 's nominal takeoff speed of 78 m/s ) . All runway used Constant acceleration from rest . Mean velocity = Vtakeoff/2 = 176/2 = 88 fps . Liftoff time is Length / Vmean = 12000 / 88 = 136 seconds = 2 minutes 16 seconds . The same calculation with an A380 with liftoff at 78 m/s = 256 fps . Mean V is now 128 fps . Liftoff time is 12000/128 = 94 seconds . Now try a 10,000 foot runway A380 etc. . 10,000 / 128 = 78 seconds . Allow a 10 % " safety margin " ( you crash slightly slower :-( ) and you get 9000/128 = 70 seconds . Related : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> - at least 4000m / 13.123 feet !!! <URL> - 18,045 feet !!! Q : Why ??? A : Altitude = 14,219 feet . Oh ! <URL> - 17,723 feet Q : Why ? A : Altitude 404 feet . Q ; Why ??? A : Once used for testing Buran Spaceplane . Oh ! <URL> Image below is from link above - Unrelated :-) - encountered along the way <URL> Zero seconds liftoff run !
I have flown many times to Schiphol and using a Dutch passport I get out of the place in 30 to 45 minutes . The time you spend extra waiting at passport control is time you wait less for your luggage . Most of the time the line for ' all passports ' is rather short but slow going . From the exit of the secure area ( the green channel ) to the train should not be more than 5 minutes , follow the signs . If possible , look up the platform before you even arrive in the Netherlands . Most trains always leave from the same platform and if you are in a rush , it helps if you know which one you should have . But I think you are leaving yourself enough time if your plane is not delayed . I missed that you want to catch a train within the Netherlands . Those are without reservations , so you can catch any on the day , even when you buy a ticket online . Those trains run very often , you might even catch an earlier train rather than a later one . Most of those trains leave from the same platform every train that leaves on a given day or even all the time . But do read the sign on the platform because there are several trains in turn leaving from that one platform . 2016 update . I have been stuck in passport control quite a bit longer recently , 1 hour for one , more than 30 minutes at an other time . And that was using the ' fast ' EU passports only options . It may have been the time of day , but do leave enough time for getting out of the airport when you book a seat reservation on a train .
I lived in DC/Northern VA area for the past four years . I can tell you riding Metro in the city is the way to go . Traffic in DC is very bad and on top of that the roads can be very very confusing for visitors . The worst part is probably the parking . During prime tourist hours , it 's almost impossible to find one . I do n't know which part of Maryland you 'll be becoming from . If you 're coming from the Red Line ( Shade Grove ) area , then I recommend driving to the Bethesda station and park there . If you 're coming from Red Line ( Glenmont ) area , I recommend parking at the Silver Spring station . The stations in the suburbs have parking lots ( they charge by the hours , or a maximum of $ 5ish per day ) , where as most of the ones inside of DC do n't . If you plan to do some sightseeing in the city , check out the official <URL> Most of the tourist spots are Metro accesible . You can also check out all the metro stations wrt to the tourust spots on <URL> There are different types of Metro cards you can get . <URL> : works like a plastic credit card . you can buy these at MD/VA grocery stores . You start with a $ 20 value , and can add more $ to it later . I think the best deal for visitors is the One Day Pass . For $ 9 , It is valid for one day of unlimited Metro travel on weekdays after 9:30 a.m. or all day on Saturdays , Sundays .
None is completely reliable in that part of the world . Bring plenty of patience and plan a good amount of time between bus arrivals and departures . The La Paz - Uyuni segment is the roughest . While you can do half ( Potosi-Uyuni ) on train which is more comfortable , it makes logistics more complicated . Train cancellations are common and so are bus ones but at least there are a lot more buses going back-and-forth . If you do not mind going back to La Paz , you can do a round-trip to Uyuni by plane which is what I would do having done the bus to Uyuni route 2 months ago . While I had booked a more spacious bus , a few hours before its departure I received a call saying it broke down and had to take the regular bus which transports more locals than tourists and makes more stops . This one was supposed to take 12 hours , instead of 10 for the tourist bus , but it actually tool 22 hours which include two flat tired , road-blocks , detours and taking the wrong route ! It wo n't surprise you that I flew back after that . Peru buses are clearly a level ahead of those in Bolivia with fewer delays and more space per person . As they are more touristy though , you get more thefts in Peru than Bolivia . Inside the bus is not much of a problem if you keep your things close but watch where your luggage is at stops . If you can not see it from where you are seated , exit at each stop and hop back on when the luggage compartment closes .
Currently , no . There is no road connecting the two countries . Briefly and recently , a ferry ran between Panama and Colombia . However , it seems it is no longer available : <URL> is empty , <URL> is suspended . <URL> suggests the ferry did n't run for most of 2015 either .
Your originating airline will be the one that checks to make sure you are leaving Thailand before your entry permission ends . They may not let you board if you can not document that you are leaving Thailand within 30 days of your arrival . And the only true proof of this is a departing airline ticket to a neighboring or home country . Train tickets and bus tickets are not legal proof , but maybe accepted ( then again may not be ) by the agent . Thai Immigration rarely checks this aspect , but they do have the right to , and I have personally witnessed them asking people to prove such . So not having proof is a double crap shoot . Best bet is to buy an airline ticket to a neighboring country that leaves before your 30 days are up . Either a dirt cheap throw away airfare ( Air Asia has a sale going on right now ) or an expensive fully refundable airfare . Then you can leave your flight home as you originally planned . You can also apply for a tourist visa in advance , which would give you 60 days entry and possibility for a 30 day extension . While this still requires proof of exit , airlines tend to overlook the outbound rule when boarding ( but not 100 % guaranteed , as I had to talk my way on once with a Non-Imm visa for a longer stay ) . You have to weigh costs of the Visa vs cost for a cheap airfare .
Right now , driving time on google maps ( taking traffic into account is 44 minutes ) . Plus time to get out to the taxi rank , get a taxi and all that , say 50 minutes . However you 're hitting the mid-morning traffic , which is awful in London . When you get into Paddington , check the tube boards and see what 's running . If the Jubilee is running , then do as you 've suggested and take the Bakerloo and switch to Jubilee . Switch at Baker St , and take the Jubilee right through to Canning Town . From there you can take the DLR direct to the airport . I still would n't trust the cabs . If the Jubilee line is down , take the District line to Notting Hill , switch to Central , and head down to Bank . Then change to DLR and that 'll also take you directly to the airport . If you 're really lucky as you 're going down the stairs into the tube at Paddington , look at the departure boards and see if any are leaving in about a minute - that would give you an indication of a couple of minutes of time saving . Bear in mind you can reach the Bakerloo platform easily , but the District to Notting Hill requires a few stairs and is on the far side of the track , which could take time if you 're using a wheeled suitcase . Good luck ! Let us know if you make it .
After hunting around on the <URL> , I 've found the answer . There 's a handy <URL> available on their site , if you dig down enough In summary : From 3:30 am until 11pm , there 's a 200E bus every 7-8 minutes , which will connect you with Metro line 3 Between 11pm and just after midnight , there 's a 200E roughly every 15 minutes , but you have to change at Határ út M for a 9xx bus to the city From 00:21 until 03:30 , there 's a 900 night bus roughly every hour Exact timings vary , so it seems worth <URL> if you think you might be very late . The latest PDF should be findable from the <URL>
It depends . The question is if they block access to signaling control builing or not . You can not predict this beforehand , but generally they do . If signalling control building is inaccessible , no trains can pass in the area controlled by that specific building . If the signaling control buildings remain functioning , you can count on some trains , but can not predict which trains will be cancelled . This implies that it is not possible to count on any regularity in the style of " every x hours " . Some general rules : National action , supported by all major unions : not a single train will ride . Regional action , supported by all major unions : not a single train will ride in that region . This can also include trains coming from or going to the region in question . National action , with limited support : impossible to predict for reasons mentioned above . It mainly depends where signalling control buildings are occupied and where ( if any ) tracks are blocked . Regional action , with limited support : still harder to predict , but you get the point , I guess . For the strikes with a limited support ( like only a minor union ) , it is often possible to predict which regions will be mainly affected , because the minor unions often have regional strongholds where they are important , while they might be negligible elsewhere . If you are referring to the strike on December 15th , you are in the first case . Not a single train will run from or to the airport .
end question
start question
What are the requirements for a minor ( 16 ) traveling alone from Russia to the USA and back ?
She will need to apply for a non-immigrant visa just like an adult Russian would , using the <URL> form , which is done <URL> . She will be required to go to an interview and have her fingers scanned as part of the application process . Below 14 years children travelling with a parent ( who has their own visa ) or a school group , would be <URL> . Regarding the actual flying-there part , <URL> by the airlines for the purposes of solo travel . The unaccompanied minor programs are really designed for kids up to about 11 - they basically nanny the kid the whole way until hand-over . You CAN register 12-17 year olds as unaccompanied minors if you think such treatment is warranted . In this case , at 16 , I ca n't think of anything worse . There are <URL> of 12-17 year olds getting hassled for travelling alone by either airline staff or immigration , mainly due to incompetence and not knowing the rules . You should definitely make sure she has a parental consent letter allowing the solo travel , signed by both parents . This will not only smooth over these bumps should they occur , but may be required by Russian emigration laws ( see Robert 's link in comments ) . Good luck !
Per the <URL> , a " general visitor " ( with or without visa , depending on citizenship ) should not " live in the UK for extended periods through frequent or successive visits " . So if you already made several long stays and try to come back for several months , there might be a ( small ? ) risk that the border force officer checking your passport would suspect you are lying about the purpose of your stay in the UK and are actually living there illegally . I also remember reading about a limit of not more than six months in any twelve months but I do n't know if it 's a hard limit or just a rule of thumb and I ca n't find any official source for that . If that 's the case , traveling around March should be no problem , traveling in May would be more difficult ( if I understand your description correctly , at that point , you will have spent 8 months of the previous year in the UK ) . I am not a lawyer but I assume that formally , as in most countries , neither a proper visa ( if your situation made one necessary ) nor a previous visit would entitle you to enter the UK . Border officers will typically evaluate whether your fulfill the requirements for entry every time you cross the border , which means that every time you leave the country , you expose yourself to the risk of being refused entry , however small . In any case , if you are questioned at the border , anything you might provide to establish that you are a legitimate visitor ( details and documentation of where you stayed and will be staying , details of people you want to visit or things you want to do , name of places you intend to see , funds to support yourself , a return ticket to your country of residence , etc. ) might be helpful .
From Tbilisi to Baku you can go via <URL> . It goes every day , so there is no problem with that . From Baku you can get to Aktau ( Kazakhstan ) via <URL> . People who used this ferry are saying it has no stable schedule , so you can <URL> : ( 99412 ) 493-19-63 ( 99412 ) 498-10-13 Also you can go to <URL> , if you want - it much closer , but I ca n't find info about transit visa for Turkmenistan . From Aktau you can get to <URL> <URL> . From there you can pass to one of the main border crossing points <URL> by <URL> ( and even to <URL> by <URL> , since in Almaty there is a Chinese embassy ) . Ürümqi is a large rail point in North China , but the only two points to cross the China-Mongolia border is <URL> and <URL> , so you need get a train to one of these points .
For a domestic flight you typically get to the airport 1-2h before your flight . Some airlines have designated terminals , it 's practical to be dropped off there . Step 1 : Check-in First thing to do is check in , there 's a couple ways to do this . Look for the WestJet desks and use the self-serve kiosk to check in , print your boarding pass and tags for your bags . You can also check in online before you get there and print your boarding pass at home , or use the electronic one if the airline provides it . Step 2 : Check bags ( skip to step 3 if you do n't have bags to check ) If you have bags to check ( that is , more than just a small bag to take on the plane ) you 'll need to find the WestJet desks and line up . Someone will weigh the bag , tag them and give you a boarding pass . As the name suggests you need this to be able to get on the plane . Step 3 : Pass security Your boarding pass will have the gate number on it , that 's where the plane leaves from . Start heading there , because you 'll need to go through security first . They 'll ask for your ID and boarding pass . Your ID can be your provincial healthcare card or your passport . Step 4 : Gate Once you pass security keep walking until your gate and you 're done . Sometimes the gate changes , or it wo n't be printed on your boarding pass , you can still find it on the screens they have for that everywhere . They 'll start announcing boarding by groups when they 're ready .
None is completely reliable in that part of the world . Bring plenty of patience and plan a good amount of time between bus arrivals and departures . The La Paz - Uyuni segment is the roughest . While you can do half ( Potosi-Uyuni ) on train which is more comfortable , it makes logistics more complicated . Train cancellations are common and so are bus ones but at least there are a lot more buses going back-and-forth . If you do not mind going back to La Paz , you can do a round-trip to Uyuni by plane which is what I would do having done the bus to Uyuni route 2 months ago . While I had booked a more spacious bus , a few hours before its departure I received a call saying it broke down and had to take the regular bus which transports more locals than tourists and makes more stops . This one was supposed to take 12 hours , instead of 10 for the tourist bus , but it actually tool 22 hours which include two flat tired , road-blocks , detours and taking the wrong route ! It wo n't surprise you that I flew back after that . Peru buses are clearly a level ahead of those in Bolivia with fewer delays and more space per person . As they are more touristy though , you get more thefts in Peru than Bolivia . Inside the bus is not much of a problem if you keep your things close but watch where your luggage is at stops . If you can not see it from where you are seated , exit at each stop and hop back on when the luggage compartment closes .
I used to travel a lot I would say that you can also take : some handmade laces from Koniakow , what is a world known place with the tradition of over 200 years of lace making handmade christmas or eastern decorations made of straw - very light :D another option for you would be some amber . All thoses products you can find in " CEPELIA " in the shops spread all over Poland that are promoting local decorative handicraft and design .
You do n't need US driver 's license , just your national one . Some of the insurances are mandatory , some are optional . <URL> on WikiTravel gives a good overview . Details differ between different rental companies , so read the fine print on their web sites . You usually have to be 25 or older and need a credit card .
I found <URL> that addresses this very question : If you are entering the United States , you may be stopped by the Customs and Border Protection Officer at the inspection booth if the officer sees an arrest or fingerprint record reported in the database . That officer may take you to a separate interview area . As with the visa application , it is essential that you have with you documents issued by the court that address the original charges , and the subsequent disposition of the case . A letter from the lawyer who assisted you , that explains the charges and the judgment is also helpful . So long story short . If you check this box because you have been arrested you should have documentation that this was the case of mistaken identity or you have been released with no criminal issues pending . According to the page I linked above the consular services actually can ( in some cases ) perform a full background checks before considering granting you a visa .
As far as I understand , the rule that the <URL> is unrelated to the visa requirement . The ESTA itself is <URL> , or up to 2 years if that comes up first . The passport , whether it 's associated with a visa or with an ESTA , <URL> it is issued by one of the <URL> . Almost all ESTA countries are exempt . Check with <URL> to make sure .
Ceuta and Melilla are administered by Spain ( though Morocco disputes their sovereignty over the cities ) . Both countries maintain border controls at the borders and Spain has built border fences around both cities . Residents of the Moroccan provinces of Tetuan and Nador have a special local border crossing scheme whereby <URL> ( but they can not enter mainland Spain or the rest of the Schengen area ) . Moroccan nationals living in other provinces can obtain a limited territorial validity visa from Spain for those cities only . ( b ) The specific arrangements for visa exemptions for local border traffic between Ceuta and Melilla and the Moroccan provinces of Tetuan and Nador shall continue to apply . ( c ) Moroccan nationals who are not resident in the provinces of Tetuan or Nador and who wish to enter the territory of the towns of Ceuta and Melilla exclusively shall remain subject to the visa requirement . The validity of these visas shall be limited to these two towns and may permit multiple entries and exits ( " visado limitado múltiple " ) in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 ( 3 ) and Article 11 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the 1990 Convention . Notably , while the cities are part of the Schengen area , there are passport checks upon departure by air or ferry , in order to ensure that Moroccan visitors without visas and illegal immigrants can not migrate to Europe or elsewhere . ( e ) Pursuant to its national law and in order to verify whether passengers still satisfy the conditions laid down in Article 5 of the 1990 Convention on the basis which they were authorised to enter national territory upon passport control at the external border , Spain shall maintain checks ( on identity and documents ) on sea and air connections departing from Ceuta and Melilla and having as their sole destination any other place on Spanish territory . To the same end , Spain shall maintain checks on internal flights and on regular ferry connections departing from the towns of Ceuta and Melilla to a destination in another State party to the Convention . There 's no provision that I can find for Tunisian nationals , so it appears that <URL> .
I 've been to all those places except for Shymkent last summer ( 2014 ) . But I did not follow your suggested route and walked and hitched a lot but also used some public transport options . Even though there are some bigger buses on some of the more popular routes , you will mostly rely on small buses and shared taxis . Even between Osh and Bishkek , the two biggest cities in Kyrgyzstan there are no regular bus services . Most people take a shared taxi or fly . On the other hand , the main bus station in Bishkek has lots of regular buses to Almaty and Shymkent in Kazakhstan and many other places . Arslanbob is a small place in the hills , you wont find a bus from Osh and even finding a shared taxi will be difficult . You can take a private taxi . You can also take a shared taxi from Osh to Jalal-Abad and then another one or a mini-bus to Arslanbob . In Arslanbob do n't expect to find a taxi to Bishkek or Song Kul , take a mini bus back to Jalal-Abad . I 'm not sure how easy it is to reach Song Kul from the south , most people come from Bishkek . To get to the lake itself , there is no public transport , your have to arrange a tourist bus or taxi in Kochkor . Many people get on horse . In general you find out where the buses/taxis are leaving from and go there in the morning . For shared taxis you always have to hackle about the price , this works even if you do n't speak Russian . You never book anything in advance . The car or SUV leaves when its full , unless you pay for all seats ( which can be more than you think ) . Tashkent has some overland buses , but even a popular route like the one to Samarkand is mostly done by shared taxi . I do n't know about the route from Tashkent to Osh , as I traveled through Tajikistan . So traveling in that region is rather adventurous , knowing some Russian helps a lot but I managed without . Unless you want to go to a really remote area , there are ways to get there , that 's how the locals travel . The main roads in Kyrgyzstan are actually in a pretty good condition , but because it is a very mountainous country , travel takes time . I ca n't give any specific costs and time estimates , but it 's all reasonable . Remember , this is how the locals travel and they are much poorer than you and me .
It 's not advisable , but you can overstay your Cambodian visa at a cost of $ 5 a day for the first 30 days and $ 6 a day after that , payable at Immigration on your way out of the country . If you plan to only stay a few days more than 30 , this is often cheaper than getting a visa extension . However , be warned that you 'll need exact change in US dollars . If you present them with a $ 20 bill for a $ 15 overstay , it 's very likely that you wo n't be given change . The Cambodia government immigration site says that overstayers are also liable to pay the cost of an extended visa , but in practice overstayers are only charged the $ 5 - or $ 6-per-day fee . <URL> <URL> DISCLAIMER - Obviously , there can be further troubles if this gets noted in your passport , so the advice is for you to contact the nearest concerning embassy , consulate or immigration office for the latest up-to-date information . An overstay can harm your chances of getting a future visa for this country , and may do so also for other countries .
Depending on the country , a box sent through the regular mail service works fine . We had to do that when on vacation in the US , to ship back items to France since we also knew that these would not fit inside our suitcases . UPS asked us $ 150 . USPS did it for $ 40 . If you ask DHL , FedEx which are in the premium range , it can be expensive . Also , during another earlier trip , we simply bought an extra suitcase before heading home . If you expect to have " leftover " baggage allowance at your airline , this can be the solution . It costs you the price of the newly acquired piece of luggage , which can be reused later . Anyway , take note of the restrictions of the local post system . For instance , USPS does not allow shipping batteries ... thus disqualifying all tech items like cell phones , tablets , cameras .
It very much depends on the countries you go to . Europe is EXPENSIVE . South America - not so much . North America - EXPENSIVE . Central Asia - not . I spent 4 months in South America doing pretty much whatever looked fun , and eating well . I initially stayed in the cheapest hostels possible , but quickly realised there 's a reason they 're cheap - had some interesting ones , that 's for sure ! After that I 'd pick the cheapest popular ones . However , if you do this , eat from the supermarket , take cheap buses , and all that , you can very easily do 20-25 Euros a Day . A bit harder in Chile , much easier in Bolivia . This past summer I went from London to Mongolia overland . Western Europe hurt a little . The Baltics ( Latvia , Lithuania ) were great , then Estonia which uses the Euro pushed rates up a bit for food . Then I hit Finland , and goodness it was expensive - all the Nordic countries are . Russia is more expensive than you 'd think in the tourist cities - St Petersburg and Moscow . Once you 're into Siberia , things are much better . And Central Asia - the ' stans , and Mongolia - accommodation is very good value , and so is food . Transport depends on your bargaining skills in Russian / local language ;) And eating from the markets can save you a lot ! Again on this trip , it varied . In Europe , you needed 20 Euros sometimes just for the hostel . In Uzbekistan , it was much better . My accommodation in Dushanbe , Tajikistan was one of the more expensive ones , but it meant I had wifi which I 'd been missing for a couple of weeks . Of the RTW travellers , I find a lot of them talk with glee about the cheap prices in India and SE Asia . Some are shocked by the prices in China being expensive in tourist spots - more so than Europe . And some are also surprised at how expensive Australia and NZ are ( and so are the locals , I can tell you ! ;) ) . So it all depends on your style of travel . You could easily spend US$ 30,000 and have an absolute ball . You could also spend around 6 grand ( 500 a month ) if you 're really frugal and careful about what you do/eat , and where you go . You could n't do that easily in Europe . It 's all part of the fun . If you come home early , it probably just means you spent it and had a great time . If you can eek out the cash , you 'll have had more experiences , just not expensive ones ;)
No , there is no international standard , these policies are entirely up to the airline . As rough guidelines : For " unaccompanied minors " , meaning traveling alone but with support from airline staff ( usually a paid service ) , most airlines draw the line at 5 or 6 years . However , many impose additional restrictions if there are connecting flights , especially to other airlines . From ( around ) 12 years , minors may be permitted to fly entirely solo , with a guardian 's permission . In addition , policies for international flights are typically stricter than for domestic flights . As a typical example , here 's the <URL> from Qantas .
Sorry for the late answer . You should n't pay any hotel tax in Colombia , even if they insist . Anyone traveling on a tourist visa is exempt from paying taxes on any hotel registered with the National Tourism Register ( which I understand is a requirement for every hotel in the country ) or a travel package . I own a tourism company in Colombia and cleared this with my accountant in our initial meeting . I 've also traveled extensively in the country as a tourist before moving here and have never paid hotel tax . If IVA shows up on the bill at checkout , ask them to waive it and they usually do it without hesitating .
As of today , no . Nothing has currently changed ( other than currency prices , which are of interest to international travelers ) . There will be a prolonged negotiating period over the next several years ( specifically , two years after <URL> is invoked unless a different agreement is reached ) , and immigration controls will inevitably be a large part of those discussions . The results of those negotiations , along with potential future events in the UK and EU , may bring any number of future changes for anybody , regardless of citizenship , interested in short or long-term travel to the UK and for UK citizens looking to visit EU countries . There are also no current plans for immigration changes for Commonwealth or other visa-free nationals ( such as US/Canadian citizens ) . Until these negotiations are completed and implemented , the UK remains a member of the EU , and all existing laws apply with no changes . As changes are proposed and enacted , travelers will need to remain alert for potential effects .
Most airlines set a minimum age where children can travel alone . The exact policies will vary between airlines , but they generally work like this : Minimum age to fly alone at all . This is often around age 5 for airlines in the US . Children below this age must always fly with a parent or other responsible adult . Unaccompanied minor service . Some airlines offer this service for an additional fee . It is often required for children age 5-11 or so and optional for kids 12 + , but the rules and age cut-offs vary between airlines , with some requiring it through age 14 or even 15 . The airlines will also set rules about when this service can be used : some wo n't offer it on international flights , or itineraries with any connections , or itineraries with tight connections , etc. . . With this service , an adult must bring the minor to the airport , get them checked in and signed in with the airline , and airline staff will escort them from place to place as needed until they arrive at the destination and an authorized adult shows ID and picks up the child . On board , the flight attendants will introduce themselves to the unaccompanied minor and will give them some extra attention , though kids are still generally on their own during the flight and should be able to occupy themselves . If there are connections , airline staff will escort the child to their next flight . In many cases , the adult dropping off the child must wait at the airport until the departing flight has taken off as well . No supervision required . Above this age ( somewhere between 12-15 for many airlines ) , the airline 's policy does not require any supervision . Some airlines may still offer optional unaccompanied minor service for older travelers if parents want to pay for it . Parents should still consider their child 's maturity and their ability to solve problems or get help if things go wrong . As always , parents need to know their kids best and decide what is appropriate for them . Many five-year-olds may not be ready to fly by themselves , especially if they 've never been on an airplane before . Some 12-year-olds may be seasoned world travelers and not need any assistance . Ultimately , parents need to decide this for their kids before making travel plans . There 's a big difference between a direct one-hour domestic flight and a three-stop 24-hour around-the-world trip . The exact policies and even the availability of these services will vary from airline-to-airline ( and many low-cost-carriers do not offer unaccompanied minor service ) , so it 's important to research all possible airlines and the fees involved before booking tickets . Most airlines have a page on their website explaining the policy , and a search for the name of the airline and " minors " will bring it up . I certainly would n't say that it is " extremely dangerous " for kids to travel alone . As with all travel , there 's a risk that things can go wrong due to delays , missed connections , bad weather , etc. . . The result is generally lost time and inconvenience , which may certainly be stressful for kids , but is n't " extreme danger . " All the requirements for human life , telephones to call home , airline staff who look after unaccompanied minors , etc. . . are all available at airports .
I do like to push them - once again , if you 're really stuck and do n't know where to look , consider <URL> . I 'm not affiliated , although I do compete on there as one of their ' experts ' . Basically they have a bunch of ' experts ' that compete to find you the best price . With what may work best as an open-jawed flight or a double-return ( Japan - > Mexico return , Mexico - > Venezuela return ) will be investigated by people on there . It 's not a free service , but if you do want to use it , check out my profile on here for a discount link . Alternatively sites like <URL> and <URL> are a good start if you want to do all the grunt work yourself .
You do NOT have to return back to your home country . It 's perfectly fine to travel to the US from anywhere as long as you have the right visa . Many people leave their home countries once , travel to many places as long as they have the right visas , then finally go back home . They do n't have to go back home after every country they visit along the way . That 's not how visas work , and not how common sense works as well . Also , that 's why websites have multi-city bookings , that 's one of the reasons why real travel agencies ( eg . not online ) are still there , to be able to make such complicated itineraries . Your travel agent gave you a bad advice , he / she is either new to this , or has a plan to make more money out of this .
end question
start question
What to do with the water served with hot chocolate in Italy ?
The practice of accompanying an espresso with a glass of water is typical in southern Italy , and in particular in Naples in which coffee is something of a mystical ritual . Recently other establishments across Italy ( and worldwide ) have begun following this practice . High-end places might serve you a glass of water as an implicit statement saying that their coffee is so good that it requires you to clean your mouth to properly taste it . The purpose of the glass of water is twofold . It cleans the palate before drinking the coffee , allowing you to better enjoy its taste . It also helps compensate for the thirst that usually comes after drinking the coffee ( a preemptive measure , if you will ) . <URL> : Un ottimo servizio prevede che l’espresso venga accompagnato da un bicchiere con acqua ( poca , non occorre pieno ) . Se l’acqua dell ' acquedotto è buona , va benissimo . Perché l’acqua ? Perché il caffè fa venire sete e desiderio di bere . Quando berla ? Un vero intenditore la beve sempre prima di bere il caffè , affinché rimangano a lungo in bocca il gusto e gli aromi . There 's a chance that the bar you visited serves a glass of water with hot chocolate , for similar purposes as outlined above . Of course , nothing stops you from drinking the water after finishing your hot beverage . You might see a few frowned faces around you , but all in all should you really care ? I believe you 're free to consume your purchased drinks in whichever order you prefer , regardless of unwritten rules and traditions .
This varies from Car Rental company to Car Rental company . I 've found <URL> of most major car rental companies and their policy w.r.t. to driving the car to Mexico . Most do n't allow it . Some do allow it with additional coverage for just such an occasion like <URL> . So if you know which car rental company you will be renting from you can look at their terms and conditions and get the real answer . P.S. Technically though you could drive your rental car to Mexico and not tell anyone and border control will likely not bother you about it but would you really want to take the risk ?
Main Courses Pizza al Trancio The single best street food that you can have in Italy is <URL> i.e. a slice of pizza on the go . It does n't get more typical and local than this . You find this in both bakeries , as well as dedicated pizzeria al trancio . Some cities cut slices out of round pizzas , others out of rectangular ones . In both cases , you walk in the shop , pay a couple Euros , and leave with a steaming slice of pizza . <URL> Piadina Second in our list is <URL> which is a warm flatbread sandwhich-type concoction originating from the Romagna region . Fillings vary , although you 'll typically get ham and cheese versions . Why get a basic sandwhich when you can get a true Italian piadina ? <URL> Focaccia Third is <URL> , which is a simple bread-like product made with pizza dough and some other magic , depending on region and city . You can have them plain , with herbs , olives , tomatoes , or even filled with ham , cheese or whatever you find . Like in the case of pizza , both bakeries and dedicated shops sell them . <URL> Pizzette Where you find focaccia , you 're likely to find pizzette ( literally : small pizzas ) too . Get a bunch of these and fight your hunger . <URL> Arancini , Supplì , Crocchette , Olive all ' Ascolana In pizzerie , and some bakeries , you 'll find a variety of fried products such as <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and olive all ' ascolana ( stuffed olives ) ( all pictured below in the order they appear ) . These first are a rice-based dish originating from Sicily , whereas the last are typical to Rome and other southern cities . Crocchette are mash-potato-based and are found mostly anywhere . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Pizza Bianca Typical in Rome is pizza bianca , which is something between bread , pizza and focaccia ( see the image below ) . Most bakeries will have some . The best thing you can do is to walk into a place that sells both bread and sliced-meats and ask them to fill it up for you . Such a place is called a negozio di alimentari or drogheria in Italy . There you go , this is my secret to eating cheap when touring Rome : get pizza bianca and fill it up . <URL> Porchetta Also typical from Rome , although originating from Ariccia , is <URL> , a spit-roasted pig . Eat a porchetta sandwich and you 'll never forget it . <URL> Fried Fish Fried-fish shops ( friggitorie ) are a somewhat recent trend , but their availability is increasing around the country . You 'll typically get a takeaway cone of oil-proof paper filled with fried fish for a couple euros . Beware that those calamari are scolding hot ! <URL> Panzerotti Panzerotti are another bakery product , which look very much like a small calzone , only fried . Although originating from Puglia , these can be found in many other regions in Italy . Indeed , Luini in Milan became famous with these . <URL> Desserts Gelato Pizza and gelato ? It 's as if I were compiling the most possibly stereotypical representation of Italy . Turns out though that these stereotypes are awesome ! As you roam around Italian cities , you 'll find them scattered with gelaterie i.e. ice-cream shops . No , none of that pre-made industrially-processed Algida garbage . In Italy you 'll find real hand-made ice cream in a million different flavours , shapes and decorations . Do n't forget to ask for whipped cream on top . <URL> Patisseries Every city has their own patisseries , most of which you can eat while walking . Look for a pasticceria i.e. a patisserie shop and ask for the typical desert . In Napoli that would be a sfogliatella , in Sicily maybe a small cassata or a cannolo , in Rome why not try Pompi 's famous tiramisù ( patisserie images are shown below in the order they appear ) ? <URL> <URL> <URL> Other patisseries like cornetti ( italian version of croissants ) and bombe fritte can be found all around the country ( patisserie images are shown below in the order they appear ) . <URL> <URL>
There is an official " minimum connecting time " for each airport . For international airports , there are usually separate " minimum connecting times " specified for domestic to domestic , domestic to international , international to domestic , and international to international . At larger airports there may even be longer minimum connecting times when you are changing airlines . Believe it or not , the data is not readily available online . Here are some places to find an official minimum connecting time , sorted in order from most authoritative to least authoritative : The official source is the IATA , which publishes the Airline Coding Directory , which costs hundreds of dollars . A much cheaper way to get the same data is to get the <URL> . Since minimum connecting times do n't change very often , I recommend just buying one copy of an outdated OAG Pocket Flight Guide on ebay for a couple of bucks . Call any airline involved in your itinerary . Tell them you would like to know the minimum connecting time for the airport in question . They 'll know exactly what you 're talking about and look it up for you . Airlines sometimes publish minimum connecting times on their websites or in their timetables , usually only useful when you are connecting on the same airline . But if you are connecting on the same airline , you do n't have to worry about this , because they will not book you on a connection which is shorter than the minimum connecting time . Remember that minimum connecting times are only estimates . Your first flight might be late . US Immigration may be overloaded . The airport train may break down . The security check in for the second flight may be really long . Due to all the steps involved , international to domestic transfers are always terrible and should be avoided if at all possible . You are literally better off transferring through a third country that has good international - > international connections ( Vancouver , Amsterdam , and London Heathrow Terminal 5 are all great for international to international ) if that allows you to enter the US at your final destination . So for example if you 're travelling from Europe to Detroit , you 're WAY better off changing planes in Amsterdam than at JFK . If you 're travelling from Seoul to San Diego , you 're WAY better off changing in Vancouver than SFO or LAX . Etc. . Like everything , " IT DEPENDS , " so please feel free to ask a more specific question -- at the very least we need to know what airport you 're connecting at and which airlines you 're using .
The best advice is to bring as little " stuff " as possible . If you think about all the stuff you 're bringing , you could categorize it like this : I will definitely need it in the airport or on the plane ( Eg passport , money ) It will make me more comfortable in the airport or on the plane ( eg pillow , book ) If it were lost , stolen , delayed or damaged my trip would be pointless or ruined ( eg laptop ) If I check it I will have to pay a baggage fee or wait for it to come out on the belt Try to restrict yourself to items " above the line " . Now what you 're dealing with in the stores , the bathroom , at security and so on is a large purse or a small backpack and not something on wheels that a store might be likely to ban . Of course if you 're travelling with another person , it 's such a luxury to leave your stuff with them while you pop off to do something . Many business lounges have small lockers - you ca n't get a rollaboard in them , but you can get a backpack in , and I have used that to stash my carryon while I spent a layover exploring a city . It 's overkill for wanting to go shopping , but something to keep in mind if you have a long time to spend in an airport . ( I believe they 're designed for you to put your stuff in while you shower , or to simplify wandering around the lounge getting food , drink , and reading material without wanting to drag all your stuff around . )
Tap water is always drinkable in Italy , especially in the cities ( of course , it may be a little bit different if you are talking about a cottage in the middle of nowhere ) . The real question is how good is that . For instance , in Rome the water has a very strong percentage of limestone and it taste does n't very good . For this reason , several people tends to buy a water purifier or a simple purifier container like the following one . In smaller cities , like Bergamo , pipe water is definitely better than bigger cities . Specifically , in Bergamo the pipe water seems to be <URL> . Talking about Milano , and big cities in general , it depends on where you live ( how far from the main water collector , the quality of the pipes , etc ) . My suggestion is to either try , ask the neighbours or use a water quality test to check the quality of the water in the apartment . In any case , it 's potable . So you can drink it , or use it for a tea or coffee . It may not taste extremely well or the amount of mineral salt may be greater than what you would expect .
<URL> : What if I hold dual or multiple passports when using arrivals SmartGate ? Non-Australian citizens If you are a dual passport holder -- aged 16 years or older and hold an ePassport from an eligible country -- you can use arrivals SmartGate . At the kiosk , be sure to use the same ePassport you presented when checking in to your flight to Australia . Australian citizens If you are an Australian citizen , you must use your Australian passport to enter Australia . If you are aged 16 years or older * and hold an Australian ePassport , you can use arrivals SmartGate . At the kiosk , be sure to use your Australian ePassport . * Australian children aged 10 to 15 years ( inclusive ) can use arrivals SmartGate if they hold an ePassport and are accompanied by a minimum of two adults .
Credit card numbers are nation specific . The first numbers of the CC number indicate the country where the card originates from . While a french card might work perfectly well in real life , in some case it does n't online . I have a similar issue with my Dutch credit card , while I live in Belgium , so Belgian address , with a CC with a Dutch number ( I do work in the Netherlands , hence the Dutch card ) . There is no way I can for example pay in Apple 's App store , nor in iTunes . I am getting similar messages like you , when I try . Everywhere else in Belgium there is no issue when I pay . In this specific case , the only solution is to buy the iTunes vouchers in the supermarket . I suspect that you are facing a similar issue . I guess it boils down to fraud protection . While in real life they can verify who you are ( signature , pin code etc ) , online they have to trust you . Unfortunately , in many cases an online payment in one country , with a credit card from another country , where the delivery address is n't even in the same country usually is online fraud . Some vendors then simply block payments from cards originating from other countries . In my case a verification on my address to which the card is registered would proof my card to be legit , but I guess if even Apple does n't want to do that , many other wo n't either .
It is difficult to answer accurately as I do not know exactly what level of accommodation is required . Also the definition of a " settled place " place is unclear to me . However I will give it a go and provide different options . The highest place with a proper hotel accommodation is the Bokor Hill in Kampot province , altitude a bit over 1 km . The hotel is expensive and luxurious , just recently built . I believe it would be easily possible to do camping at Bokor Hill area as well . However it is not really a proper town or village where local folks would live . When I went there several years ago it was quite an empty place but since then they have upgraded the road and built the hotel etc. so I do not have current first-hand information . Sen Monorom in Mondulkiri province , altitude about 700 m , is the highest provincial capital . It is a small peaceful town . It feels different there compared to the rest of Cambodia . There are several hotels and other kinds of accommodation available . It is quite cold at night there ( cold by Cambodian standards ) . It looks like some ( western ) tourists have gone camping at Aoral/Aural mountain area . I have never been there myself , so I do not really know about that area . I found photos at <URL> and some description of a hike at <URL> . It seems silly to carry camping gear in Cambodia , as basic accommodation is available everywhere usually starting from 5 USD/night/room and you want to minimize the amount of stuff you carry there . It is hot , troublesome and inconvenient to travel in Cambodia with a lot of stuff to carry . Also even in places which do not have hotels/guesthouses you will easily find families who will accommodate you for a night , if you decide to go really off the beaten path . Just ask around and someone will offer you a place to stay for a night . Basic local food is available at any populated place for 1-2 USD/portion . There is no such thing as " campground " in Cambodia . If you want to be able to stay overnight in uninhabited jungle , just buy a hammock with a mosquito net from any town market and carry that . Of course then you would need trees which might not be available at the highest possible places .
My understanding is that chlorine , in the concentrations found in drinking water , does not pose an acute health danger . There may be health risks associated with long-term exposure , and this is a more controversial topic , where the literature and expert opinions are mixed . Most main-stream information seems to suggest it 's safe , but the skeptics claim a corporate bias , etc. . Some of the long-term exposure risks reported are <URL> . Note that much of claimed risk is associated with long , hot showers , not drinking it . If you 're only visiting for a while , and do n't have any known Chlorine sensitivities , you 'll probably be just fine . If the taste bothers you , or you 're especially concerned about long-term health affects , drink bottled water . Some related SE posts : <URL> <URL> <URL>
There 's nothing wrong with wanting some peace and quiet while traveling , to many people travel is more of a hassle than an enjoyment so I 'd say it 's quite common for travellers to expect non-social time . Not everyone is trying to chat all the time . Social cues and customs differ between countries , but I 'd say in the West at least , if someone strikes up a conversation with a stranger it 's probably because that person looks " available " for a chat . Some things I do when I do n't feel like having a chat is to busy myself with something , like reading/writing , smartphones are a blessing and a curse in that regard . Simply having earphones on ( music optional ) or closing your eyes for a light sleep also sends the message that you 're not up for conversation . That said , I 've learned to enjoy the occasional small talk with travellers . I 'm a bit of a private person as well but sometimes it ca n't be avoided , so might as well relax and make the best of it , it 's a part of travel as a whole
I ca n't tell you what they would actually do , but I 'm going to <URL> anyway , because that 's what lays out what they 're legally obliged to do . And , alas , the answer is basically nothing . Boldface mine : The Hosts , not Airbnb , are solely responsible for honoring any confirmed bookings and making available any Accommodations reserved through the Site , Application and Services . If you , as a Guest , choose to enter into a transaction with a Host for the booking of an Accommodation , you agree and understand that you will be required to enter into an agreement with the Host and you agree to accept any terms , conditions , rules and restrictions associated with such Accommodation imposed by the Host . You acknowledge and agree that you , and not Airbnb , will be responsible for performing the obligations of any such agreements , that Airbnb is not a party to such agreements , and that , with the exception of its payment obligations hereunder , Airbnb disclaims all liability arising from or related to any such agreements . So basically , if the host cancels your booking for any reason ( # 2 ) , Airbnb will refund your money and suggest other listings nearby : If a Host cancels a confirmed booking made via the Site , Services , and Application , ( i ) Airbnb Payments will refund the Total Fees for such booking to the applicable Guest within a commercially reasonable time of the cancellation and ( ii ) the Guest will receive an email or other communication from Airbnb containing alternative Listings and other related information . If there are no other listings nearby because of the World Cup or a Godzilla rampage , too bad . More or less the same applies to an apartment you ca n't get into ( # 1 ) or an unusable/defective apartment ( # 3 ) , which is covered by a separate but similar <URL> . This policy also applies to cancellations made " shortly before the scheduled start of the reservation " , although what exactly this means ( hours before ? same day ? ) is left undefined . If you are a Guest and suffer a Travel Issue , we agree , at our discretion , to either ( i ) reimburse you up to the amount paid by you through the Site , as determined by Airbnb in our discretion , depending on the nature of the Travel Issue suffered or ( ii ) use our reasonable efforts to find and book you another Accommodation for any unused nights left in your reservation which in our determination is reasonably comparable to the Accommodation described in your original reservation in terms of size , rooms , features and quality . All determinations of Airbnb with respect to the Guest Refund Policy , including without limitation the size of any refund , shall be final and binding on the Guests and Hosts . This seems more generous at first glance , since it looks like they 're promising to actively find you alternative accommodations including non-Airbnb options , but on more careful reading there 's that " or " in there . In other words , they can take option ( i ) , refund your money and say " too bad " . Now , that 's the T&amp;C . <URL> they 'd actually go beyond this minimum and offer you automatic credit to upgrade : What happens if a host cancels my reservation ? 3 ) Book something nicer . We 'll help cover the difference if you want to book a more expensive listing . Just look for an email from us with details on how much credit we can offer based on your existing reservation amount . Although <URL> that credit is not too generous : In our case , we spent over $ 1,200 and they offered $ 37 worth of a voucher for the inconvenience . That 's less than 3 % of the price paid . All this looks a bit mean at first glance , but truth be told , if you examine the fine print of most any hotel chain 's T&amp;C , you 'll find pretty much the same wording . Most better hotels do adopt the practice of " comping " your room if they have to turn you away , meaning they 'll find alternative accommodations and foot the bill , but this is customer service , not a requirement -- and I 'd expect Airbnb to go beyond the minimum as well if you really do run into the worst-case scenario of knocking at somebody 's door in the middle of the night and not getting an answer .
Being myself insured in the Netherlands , I am not 100 % sure how it works for non-residents but the way health care is structured here is that there is no national health service but many independent providers and several private insurers . However , prices and insurance coverage are regulated . In practice , general practitioner ( huisarts ) consultations are free at the point of use ( billed directly to the insurer ) but prescriptions and many other things are paid by the patient , at least in part . As far as I know , you should always try to consult a GP first and he or she will refer you to a specialist or hospital if needed . Regarding the way you should use the EHIC , the best thing is to check the official app ( <URL> or <URL> ) and always show the card whenever you seek health care . Apparently , one insurer , Agis , is <URL> ( the English-language version of the website is apparently unavailable but there is a link to a PDF brochure in English at the bottom of the page ) . In a nutshell , the EHIC provides you with a coverage equivalent to the " basic insurance " defined in the law so that a GP consultation should be free and other health care providers should be able to claim insured costs directly from Agis , which would basically acts as your insurer in the Netherlands . If for some reasons some health care provider can not take care of it directly , you might need to pay everything first and lodge a claim with Agis at the following address to get ( part of ) the money back : You will need to fill in the form provided on the website and send a copy of the bill , a copy of your EHIC and the IBAN number from your bank account . They also have a specific email and telephone number for international matters , they might be able to provide more details on what you should expect to pay should you need to be hospitalized : Finally , if everything else fails , you can still try to contact your insurance or health care administration in your country of residence . You should expect some paperwork and delays but they might still be able to reimburse some things . Waiting to be back and seeking reimbursement is not how the system is supposed to work so there might be difficulties but it 's not completely impossible either . Given that Dutch patients have deductibles ( eigen risico ) and a personal contribution to some expenses , you might have to cover part of the costs in any case . The EU app also suggests that some costs not covered in the Netherlands might still be claimed in your home country ( specifically dental care if you are covered for it ) .
You can travel to Italy with your current valid passport and your permesso di soggiorno . You do not need your old passport or the old visa . Your permesso di soggiorno is not " based on " a visa ; it replaces the visa . With a valid permesso di soggiorno , you do not need any visa . See , for example , the <URL> Article 5 ( 1 ) ( b ) : For stays not exceeding three months per six-month period , the entry conditions for third-country nationals shall be the following : ( b ) they are in possession of a valid visa , if required pursuant to Council Regulation ( EC ) No 539/2001 of 15 March 2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement , except where they hold a valid residence permit ; ( emphasis added ) Similarly , the permit itself allows you to remain in Italy as long as it is valid , and by implication to enter Italy at any time .
Find out what car rental companies are available at your destination , then call/email them to ask . Try to ensure whoever you ask checks policy rather than just answering what they think is right - because you may find whoever is at the desk on the day you collect has a different idea , and it could be important to show them the correct answer . I 'd also be keen to check if the law of the countries you intened to drive in are happy with this arrangement . In some European countries you can be compelled to hand over your license when stopped by law enforcement and there is of course the possibility you get into an incident of some form . It could be problematic if it turns out that you were breaking the law with a driving license not in your legal name .
Most of Europe is in the <URL> treaty area . The UK is n't . You would need a Schengen tourist visa for sightseeing . And a transit visa is n't sufficient for a longer stay in the UK , either .
Except for a few special cases , a ticket to London Terminals is only valid until you reach your first of the London Terminals . It is almost never valid by tube . As explained on the <URL> Tickets issued for travel to/from London usually show ' London Terminals ' as the destination/origin rather than naming a specific station . This is because the ticket is valid to more than one London Terminal station provided it 's on any reasonable line of route . Tickets can only be used on National Rail services . For example , a ticket from Brighton to London Terminals is valid to Victoria , Waterloo ( changing at Clapham Junction ) , London Bridge , Blackfriars and City Thameslink or Charing Cross Waterloo East or Cannon Street ( changing at London Bridge ) . It would not be valid to , for example , London Euston or Paddington as this would not be on the line of route and would involve crossing London using another mode of transport . If you want to get from Reading ( or further west ) to London Bridge on a London Terminals ticket , going via Paddington is not allowed . To go Reading - Paddington - London Bridge , you need to buy a ticket to London Zone U1 , eg <URL> , which includes the onwards tube journey . Alternately , if you 're determined to get yourself to London Bridge on your current ticket ... You can route yourself on the Reading to Waterloo train , and change at either Clapham Junction , or ( post-August ) Waterloo + Waterloo East . Either way it 'll be a lot lot slower , but your <URL> via this slow route to London Bridge .
I am operating with an MLC backpack both on plane and at conference and if it 's slightly larger than the locals daypack -- oh well . It would work less well with a rolling carry on of course . eBags Mother Lode Convertible ( I used this before ) , Tortuga , Patagonia etc etc the list is endless of these backpacks . ( I am experimenting with a Magma Control-Backpack XL currently but unless you also want to carry on a 19.5 " monitor , that 's probably not the best choice . ) Another solution is to put the 240gr Bach Itsy Bitsy backpack ( which I also have ) in the carry on ( or checked in ) . The backpack is big enough : even my T420 laptop + sleeve fit in there and provides structure . Your laptop is likely thinner and lighter . Unlike most such collapsible backpacks this is strategically reinforced where necessary so while it 's very low weight you can carry like 4-5 kgs in it without a problem . Probably even more but I did n't dare to test further . Finally , you can just carry your normal laptop backpack ( my choice is the Briggs &amp; Riley Verb Activate but many are good choices , this just happens to be the best :P ) and a small duffel ( there 's no competition here , the Red Oxx XS Aviator is where it is ) as a personal item and check in everything else in a suitcase . I did this before as well .
My parents just visited Niagara Falls last week ( 12 , 13 and 14 September ) from New York , they too visited only the US side . And , one weekend before my parents , my colleague visited their with his family ( after his reviews I planned tour for my parents ) . So , as told by all of them and after seeing the pictures they have taken , I can assure you that the view at this time is same as seen over google pictures . Level of water and crowd visiting Niagara falls is good enough to make this tour a cherish-able tour . Although my parents has taken 3 days and 2 nights tour ( including Washington DC , Philadelphia , Watkins Glen Tour ) but they were very much impressed and happy with the Niagara Falls place . If you visit the same by anytime end of October it will be good time for visiting that place .
Presenting the card and running a transaction on the card are different things . I bought some show tickets a while back , changed the card , but kept the old card for ticket pickup . The company just wanted to match the numbers on the transaction to the numbers on the piece of plastic , the transaction was run at the time of purchase . People change / lose / expire cards every day , and no airline is going to wait until departure to take your money . Just keep the old card after you cancel it .
end question
start question
Is it possible to travel by sea between Hong Kong and Taiwan ?
Apparently there are no direct ferries : <URL> It would be unlikely to save any money : see <URL> . A mid week round trip ticket is around US $ 200 on Hongkong airlines or China Air . Maybe US $ 250 on Eva . Cathay Pacific is significantly more expensive but it 's by no way the only game in town . It 's hard to see how a ferry could be cheaper than US $ 200 .
As far as I can tell , there are no practical solution that would be much cheaper than USD 200 . The two fully legal possibilities to stay longer than I know of are : Applying for a Swedish long-stay visa . You could qualify for a <URL> or <URL> ( WHV ) . It 's unlikely to be practical for 10 days because of visa fees and delays but the WHV could allow you to stay for an entire year relatively easily . Getting an extension of the Schengen visa-free stay or " limited territorial validity " visa . Those do exist but most likely wo n't be available to you as they are restricted to force majeure or humanitarian reasons . Other ways to plan this trip without paying for the more expensive flight could be : Traveling out of the Schengen area . Going for a week to Croatia , the UK , Turkey or any other destination outside the area at some point during your stay in Sweden ( not necessarily at the end of the trip ) would reduce the day count and make sure <URL> . With low cost airlines and cheap accommodation it could come close to USD 200 . You would not actually extend your stay in Sweden but it could fit in your trip , with a nice holiday somewhere else to boot . Flying from somewhere else like Copenhagen ( connecting by train ) or even further afield like Frankfurt or Amsterdam ( perhaps going there by bus ) to find a cheap flight earlier . See also <URL> ( about the Netherlands , not Sweden ) and <URL> ( US citizen in Germany ) .
To add to Josh B 's answer - Wan Chai Computer Centre . Wan Chai MTR Station , Exit A4 on to the pedestrian bridge , there will be escalators when you hit the main road to let you get down to street level . It is right next to a McDonalds ( you can see that sign from the bridge ) . Less busy than the rest , good range . Mong Kok Computer Centre . Mong Kok MTR Station [ ( not Mong Kok East ) , exit E2 ( Bank Centre ) , walk straight across Sai Yeung Choi Street , then the next one and it will be on your right . There 's usually a newspaper/magazine stand in front . That area is busy during all the waking hours though , especially on the weekends ( mosh pit style crowds , minus the moshing of course ) , so you may want to try on a weekday . Hours are roughly 10-11am ish , until 6-7pm . Sham Shui Po Golden Computer Centre . Sham Shui Po MTR Station , follow the signs in the station . This one is a bit more out of the way and less touristy . Golden Computer Centre has two levels ; the ground floor sells mostly games , consoles and accessories ; the basement sells mainly computer accessories ( keyboards , mice , cables , adapters , phone chargers etc. ) . There 's also the Apliu Street markets , which sell all things electronic , like LED lights , torches , 2nd hand phones , power adapters , batteries . Finally , there 's your standard electrical chains in most shopping centres and strips which should also have what you want , probably a bit more expensive though . The main ones are Fortress and Broadway . If in doubt , you can always try Mong Kok , Sai Yeung Choi Street ( Mong Kok Station , Exit E2 ) - these stores have practically every second shopfront on that strip . That 's also a big tourist area , so the language barrier may be a bit easier . One last thing - all the best to you for remembering which place has what at what price . There 's nothing dodgy going on ( well , not that I found ) , but it is a crazy mind game trying to remember where each store is , especially when they all pretty much look the same , and the centres are n't exactly laid out in the most logical manner .
Generally no . HK$ in Hong Kong . RMB in China . However , there are plenty of ATMs where your normal bank card should be able to get you cash at a reasonable rate . Some banks have " no-fee " agreements with partner banks in China . For me that 's Westpac in AUS and China Construction Bank in mainland China .
I 'm an undergraduate in Korea ( South ) . Quick answer for your question is " impossible " though you can find some people " acting " kisaeng ( -_- ?! ) There are 2 types of kisaeng in korea nowadays Real kisaeng They are who really worked ( ? ) as kisaeng until 1940 's but not anymore since kisaeng has become illegal " job " ( 1945 I ca n't find the exact bill related at the moment ) . However Korean government chose some famous kisaeng still alive and let them teach young people to learn kisaeng skills such as dancing , poems , drawing and so on in order to preserve the culture of kisaeng but for you it would be really hard to meet these people since there are very few left Who learned skills . They are the one you can find in Korea if you visit here <URL> In today 's Korea people do n't have a job called kisaeng but some remain as nationally approved kisaeng ; this is somewhat like American Indians as I know there are no Indians in US but you can find some in some preserved places ( this may not be true but to help you understand ) . ki = 技 ( hanja/Chinese character ) = skilled saeng = 生 ( Chinese character ) = person kisaeng == kinyo ( hard to tell you correct pronunciation ) ki = same as above nyo = 女 ( Chinese character ) = female You might find it curious that Koreans use Chinese characters to write Korean but during the Chosun dynasty ( 1392-1897 ) , when kisaengs lived , people used Chinese characters for written language although the Korean alphabet ( Hangul ) was invented in 1443 by King Sejong .
You can <URL> itself . There 's a baggage storage facility at Level 3 , Terminal 2 . At 10 HKD / hour , it 's quite inexpensive too ! Here 's something you should consider though : peak time traffic is bad in Hong Kong and if you plan to reach your host 's house after 5pm , it might take you 1-2 hours by taxi to reach your destination . My suggestion would be relax at the airport - there 's <URL> - then take HKIA Express train to the city ; the journey is comfortable as there 's enough space on the airport express to bring luggage and you 'll get into the city faster . After that , it 's your choice whether you want to continue travelling on Hong Kong MTR or take a taxi .
Currently , no . There is no road connecting the two countries . Briefly and recently , a ferry ran between Panama and Colombia . However , it seems it is no longer available : <URL> is empty , <URL> is suspended . <URL> suggests the ferry did n't run for most of 2015 either .
You should encounter absolutely no problems . Hong Kong immigration are both efficient and pleasant . I have resided in Hong Kong for over 9 years and hold permanent residency . We receive both family and business visitors who regularly tour the surrounding region . Recently a colleague holding a Thai passport entered HK on the 4 June , left for Dubai on 5 June , returned on 19 June , left for Macau on 24 June returned to HK on 25 June and departed HK yesterday . They did not hold a visa , and at no point were they questioned or challenged as to their purpose of visit and/or frequency of entry/exit . Upon each entry you will be granted the amount of visa free days applicable to your passport . These can be chained together and there is no limit on the total number of days you can stay in one year , as long as you always exit and re-enter before each visa free period expires , and do not take paid employment or engage in other activities prohibited by your tourist status . My only advice would be to stick to one passport .
There are none left after the ones in Kai Tak and Diamond Coast closed in Kong Kong . you will have to go to China or Macao . In <URL> there is one the Cotai strip behind the golf court . I have however never been there and could not find an email/website either . There are two in Zuhai : The <URL> ( used by the HK GoCart club ) and a kart track on the <URL> , with their own <URL> . You might want to ask the HK club for further info : <URL> Chances are however , that you will not get very far with English on either of them .
Apparently no , according to <URL> Round Trip tickets are station-specific and can be used for 1 return journey on the Airport Express between Airport and the station specified . On the other hand , why would you want this ? Roundtrip from airport to Hong Kong is 180 HKD . However two one-ways airport - Hong Kong and Kowloon - airport is 100 + 90 = 190 . So your savings are 10 HKD , a coffee . However if you really need to save 10 HKD , then do not take Express at all . Take one of the <URL> , which will cost up to 50 HKD . This will be quite slow , but some buses have free Wi-Fi , and you 'll see some scenery .
It depends on what you consider ' special skills ' . With some excercise , paddling should be feasible for most people . For the English Channel , you can easily find operators and boat charterers offering planning support or equipment rent : <URL> Crossing the Øresund may not be much more than 5km ( depending on where you cross ) and can obviously be done with very simple equipment . Here 's a video of two Swedes crossing on stand up paddleboards : <URL>
I LOVE taking photos in Hong Kong . I have taken many photos in mainland China and in Hong Kong and a few other Asian countries - HK has a special " flavour " of its own . The answers to your 3 questions are " many places " in each case :-) - but there are some specialist ones . You will find mixes of all sorts of things all over . The really and genuinely old is largely gone from HK . High rise accommodation is the order of the day . You can get some genuine rural stuff in the New territories - a cheap fast not too long ( 30 minutes max ? ) train ride North . But largely in HK once you get away from the glitzy Western Nathan Road thieves parade you find ordinary people living " authentic " lives with much of traditional China and Western fare interspersed . Much worthwhile to see by " just wandering " . Hong Kong is closer to London in style than it is to typical mainland Chinese cities . Accepting that and then finding how the mixture works is the fun . Uncovery 's list is good . I 'll try to add to and expand only parts of it . High concentrations of people , such as markets and diverse crowds of people in organic situations ( i.e. not packs of tourists ) Mongkok , Mongkok ! !!! Evening most nights . Take subway ( MRT ) to exit D1 ? - see area B on map . Exit onto Argyle Street . You arrive in the middle of a party . Hot , loud music . Many many people . Intense . Argyle street is mainly western style shopping with a strong Chinese flavour and many HK residents . Yes , there are many tourists , but also much is as authentically Chinese as in many mainland Chinese street markets ( and I 've seen many ) . The gem is the " Ladies Market " ( A on map ) . Tun Choi street from Argyle street going south towards the harbour BUT you do not need to know the name - just walk along Argyle Street East away from Nathan Road and you WILL find it :-) . ( It does NOT go north of Argyl ; e street despite what the map suggests . ) Sets up in evening early . Runs till 10 pm in full swing then shuts down over next hour or two until ; by midnight all you 'll find will be a few solitary folk pushing large carts full of packed up stalls , and me with my camera :-) . LM ( Lady 's Market ) largely sells clothes and baubles , handbags , belts , knick knacks and more . It IS a tourist trap BUT it 's also a locals trap and packed with every version of HK denizen you can hope for . ( Very few pick pockets here ) . Wall to wall packed people , noise , bustle , commerce . Double row of stalls front a narrow lane with shops on outside with narrow space between shops and stalls . Chaos . Variety . Colour . People . Fun . I tend to use an APSC camera with 18mm lens , f/biggest-apertue-possible . An eg 50mm f/1 .8 is just too hard to use well . I actually use an 18-250 which allows you to reach out to something far away and then back for a closeup . At 18mm a reasonably frame filled person photo is " very close " and starts to distort . Back just a little and it works well . ( On an APSC with OK AF you can leave the lens at 18mm and use it as an unsighted point and shoot . You get used to how close you can be and need to be for an adequate shot . Should you wish to you can walk though a crowd and take closeup shots of people as you walk ( or jostle ) past each other . One street across from LM towards Nathan Rd ( Sal Young Choi ? ) is a high tech shops street with cameras . electronics etc. . Also full to the brim with people . Much wider street . No stalls . Many human interest scenes . Street performers and street performing advertisers abound . Excellent for a wide range of people and shots . Delve just off this area and you find food shops not much different from those almost anywhere in China . You can stand slightly behind and to one side of a food stall and observe all sorts of food/people/light / seller/buyer scenes . Excellent . Permission : How you go about street photography is your choice . You are unlikely to get assaulted in HK if you do not ask , and unlikely to get the really candid shots if you always ask . I try to strike a balance - a few candid shots and if they look good I 'll approach the subject and show them . In Lady 's market the melee is usually so great that it 's mostly shoot while you move with the flow . Map C - Goldfish market is interesting . Many dozens of shops sell goldfish on all size and vasts quantity - often displayed swimming in plastic bags . Apart from the fish themselves the people coming to buy and inspect are a treasure . ( The Goldfish are sold because they are auspicious rather than just as pets ) . Map D - Bird Garden . Yes ! The birds are great , but the owners are ' greater ' :-) . Old men bring their caged birds to display or compare or just for the companionship . Shops sell birds and cages and feed ( by the bag : crickets , maggots , ... ) . Sellers with eg 6 African Grey parrots force feed them some evil mushy gunk by inserting a long tipped HUGE syringe down their throats and filling the birds stomachs with the contents . The birds seem eager to participate . Offputting for the uninitiated but fascin
Here is how it is supposed work : in the station ( Hong Kong or Kowloon ) you go through a turnstile . The turnstile has an RF card reader which can read ( and invalidate ) the ticket . Typically you need to swipe the ticket over the reading area next to the turnstile but if you are lucky the reader may still see it if it 's just in your hand . After it 's read , the turnstile will unlock and you can go through . At this point the ticket is invalidated ( or one trip subtracted ) . You are supposed to keep the ticket since it 's also your receipt . So if you went through a turnstile , your ticket got read and invalidated . If not , you got lucky and have a spare ticket . Same story as if the conductor on the train forgot to punch your ticket . It 's not your fault .
On the same site nothing is indicated whether the entry and exit points must be the same . The only thing that is prescribed on the <URL> are the points of entry , which given the fact that <URL> is on the list of possible entry points means that the origination country does n't have to be Poland . There is a tourist site <URL> where this exact question was asked before , so your exit to Lithuania is not an issue .
You ca n't hitchhike to the Galalpagos . If you are trying to do things on the cheap your best bet is to turn up to Guayaquil in Ecuador . From here they have boats cruises that depart on tours around the Galapagos . If you have time on your hands you can hang around and wait for a boat tour where they have n't sold all of the spaces . Depending on demand , you can get a deal for as much as half the price of a normal ticket . The other option is to pay a cargo boat to take you . It can be a bit of a rough ride though and you may need to bring your own hammock . I believe it takes about 3 and a half days on a cargo boat so it probably is n't the most comfortable !
I would worry less about the Shanghai-Beijing train being full than the Hong Kong-Shanghai train - unless you travel over Chinese new year or another holiday . There are trains in intervals of 10-40 minutes and should allow you to at least get on the next train in case the current one is full . There is a website that lets you check the availability of seats on each train in advance , so you can get a picture which times of the day are the most busy . Since the website is blocked here for some reason , go to <URL> " Do tickets sell out ? " . Go to the linked page and do a train search , then click on " More Details " . It will show you how many seats are still free . For example , the 7:00 am train for tomorrow morning still seems to have over 500 seats free . If you do not feel comfortable with this information , I would consider asking directly the question " How full are the Shanghai-Beijing trains on normal Weekdays/Weekends " .
If you only enter mainland China once , the single entry Chinese visa is enough . EU national does n't need a visa to enter HK or Taiwan , which are , despite PRC official beliefs , not Chinese countries from a travel standpoint . They have their own visa policies , citizens of those nations have a unique passport , etc. . You will not be able to enter Shenzhen using the same visa as before , you will need to acquire another . You can get a 5 day Zhenzhen only visa .
I recently travelled for 6 months through Asia . During this time I met many travellers who were travelling for much longer periods , some for several years . Most people like myself had simply worked and saved hard for a year or more then travelled through counties where it is cheap . I also met a couple of people who were working on their travels , a writer and an entrepreneur . In South America and Asia you can travel very cheaply ( $ 30USD or less ) . As long as you are willing to live frugally and save a good amount before you go you can go for a long time . When you travel on a long trip like this you have 3 main costs . Living costs . Food and accommodation . Every country is different but in places like India , Cambodia , etc this can be very low . Site seeing . Prominent historic sites often have high fees . Especially if you are visiting multiple locations every day . Choosing to only see the most prominent and the cheapest can decrease costs . Internal Travel . Flights and trains from one city to another can often be expensive . These can be mitigated by staying in each place for longer . So if someone saves say 10,000 USD they could easily travel Asia for a year . Of Course that 's a lot of money , but if you do n't have children , a mortgage etc , and save aggressively it is very possible . The long term travellers I met came from all works of life , writers , programmers , nurses , students , factory workers . A final note is that if you 're alone your costs are higher . A couple can halve their accommodation costs as well as taxi/tuk tuk hire .
The short answer is : depends . There are multiple discussions on <URL> regarding the subject . One from <URL> and another from <URL> . General consensus is that it is not possible with few exceptions : Accompanying live cargo Being an employee of the company flying the cargo In the remote areas like Alaska it may be possible to be flying a half and half plane . Half cargo - Half passenger . You are an airline crew member or a courier in that case you can request a <URL> ( maybe someone can enlighten me what Groom means here ) Save those you are likely to be denied access to the plane
While sites like Wikitravel do n't seem to help too much in this case , fortunately we can look at anecdotal evidence and quotes on VirtualTourist <URL> like <URL> . Quotes from these pages for a selection of clubs : " Dress Code : No jeans or sneakers/trainers , must be very fashionable . " " Dress Code : No Jeans , shorts , or flip flops !!!! " " Dress Code : Just do n't look like a COPLETE MUPPET !! " ( sic ) " Dress Code : Dress to kill , place is Ultra HIP !!!!! " " Dress Code : Casual Chic , everyone 's an expat or a chuppie ( chinese yuppie ) over here . " " Dress Code : Dress like a rich hobbit . The place here is small and the food/drinks come at a price . " " Dress Code : Trendy and stylish " " Dress Code : I dont know that there is a dress code but we did have proper evening attire on and fit right in . " " Dress Code : Your with the movers and shakers of the Hong Kong world !!!!! Dress to Impress is the word !!!!! " " Dress Code : Cool lounge wear - jeans are fine , flip flops are not noticeable but dress cool " So it sounds like for a lot of them , smart-casual is the plan , and given there 's some suggestion of style and smartening-up , personally I 'd pack town shoes .
end question
start question
Mount Pleasant , Iowa , USA -- how to get from the Amtrak station to the Burlingon Trailways bus stop ?
Mt. Pleasant is a small town of fewer than 9,000 residents in a rural county ; there is no municipal mass transportation available . I do see listings for two or three taxi companies ( A2z and Barnes , and sometimes others ) , so you might call ahead to see if they will have cars waiting for the train . Mt. Pleasant is the nearest Amtrak station to Iowa City , home to the huge University of Iowa , but Iowa City taxis may not be interested ( or licensed ) to give you a ride locally within Henry County .
According to the <URL> and to <URL> there are lockers in Koyasan station but not in Gokurakubashi . Anyway , if I remember correctly , you have to take the Nankai line from Osaka Namba station to Gokurakubashi and again you will have to change at the same station on your way back to Kyoto so , probably , you are more likely to find a locker at the Namba station on a busy day .
You do NOT have to return back to your home country . It 's perfectly fine to travel to the US from anywhere as long as you have the right visa . Many people leave their home countries once , travel to many places as long as they have the right visas , then finally go back home . They do n't have to go back home after every country they visit along the way . That 's not how visas work , and not how common sense works as well . Also , that 's why websites have multi-city bookings , that 's one of the reasons why real travel agencies ( eg . not online ) are still there , to be able to make such complicated itineraries . Your travel agent gave you a bad advice , he / she is either new to this , or has a plan to make more money out of this .
Bus Is Cheapest But You Need a METROBUS Card The <URL> , which makes it easy to assume that taxis are the only form of public transport connecting the airport to the city . This is not the case however , as <URL> . It also states that bus rides cost 0.25 at the time of writing , regardless of the journey distance . Searching on the Panama public transport website yields the <URL> which , as the name suggests , should take you yo Albrook . Note however that you ca n't board a bus without swiping your METROBUS card first . What <URL> suggest is to ask for locals to swipe theirs for you in exchange for a bit more than the nominal bus fee . Taxis and Other Shuttle Services You 've probably also tried <URL> . These include taxi-train combinations , which seem to be the cheapest ( 20-25 ) , as well as single taxi rides ( 30-35 ) . The last entry in Rome2Rio however mentions a shuttle , which seems to cost the same as a taxi ride ( 30-35 ) . Checking on <URL> shows that these shuttles are not buses . Rather they are a private minibus/minivan service which might or might not take you to Almirante per se as this destination is n't shown on the aforementioned webpage .
I 'd stop in Albury then Goulburn both about 3.5 hours drive and on the Hume Highway . I 've visited both and Albury has some nice parks and if you 're onto big things Goulburn has the Big Merino . *
You can take the <URL> ( Airport Limousine Bus ) direct from Haneda ( International Terminal ) to Narita ( Terminal 1 then Terminal 2 ) for 3,100 JPY . It comes fairly regularly ( roughly hourly ) and takes around 95 minutes . The earliest departure is 06:25 . Alternatively you can take the train . The best route depends on time of arrival , but your main options will be : Route A Haneda - > Shinagawa ( Keikyu Main/Airport Line Rapid Ltd. . Exp. , 13 mins ) Shinagawa - > Narita ( Narita Express , 68 mins ) Total route cost : 3,600 JPY . Route B Haneda ( through Sengakuji , Oshiage and Aoto ) - > Narita ( it 's one physical line but changes name across the journey , starting out as the Keikyu Main/Airport Line and changing to Toei Asakusa Line , then Keisei Oshiage Line and finally Keisei Narita Sky Access , 94 minutes ) Total route cost : 1,760 JPY If you want specific timings to plan your train journey and see which of the routes is better for you , check out the always-useful <URL> website . Having taken the bus I strongly recommend it - very comfortable , spacious and air-conditioned . What 's more , you can see some incredible urban views on the elevated express ways and drops you right at departures at Narita .
To find a specific answer , your best bet is to use the <URL> . Tell it exactly when you want to leave , how fast your walk , if you want to minimise walking and/or changes ( eg due to baggage ) , and it 'll give you an answer In general through , from Covent Garden to Heathrow , there are two options . One is slightly quicker , one is a lot cheaper . Option one - board a Heathrow bound Piccadilly Line train . There 's roughly one every 7 minutes for most of the day . Take that all the way to Heathrow , should take just under an hour ( 50-55 minutes once your onboard ) . Then , walk to your terminal , allow about 10 minutes . It 's a zone 1 - zone 6 single , unless you have a travel card . Using an Oyster card , off-peak it 's # 3 for the journey . Alternately , make your way to Paddington Station , then take the Heathrow Express . From Paddington there 's 4 trains an hour , journey time of about 15 minutes to T1/T2/T3 , 20 minutes to T5 , absolute age to T4 because you have to change ... From Covent Garden to Paddington , there 's two options . You can either take a Piccadilly Line train to Piccadilly Circus and change to Bakerloo line . Or , if you do n't have too much luggage , enjoy a pleasant 10 minute walk from Covent Garden down to Charring Cross , then 10 minutes on the Bakerloo up to Paddington . I 'd say that with changes and waits for trains , allow about 30-35 minutes either way from Covent Garden to being at the Heathrow Express platform in Paddington . As such , the Heathrow Express option is n't looking much quicker , but is looking about # 20 more expensive !
Technically you could claim a Sales Tax Refund from New York State . To do that you need to fill out <URL> form in which you can claim refund for goods you are taking out of state . And mail it to the state . Problem is that under NY law you likely wo n't qualify for a refund and on top of this they can only return NY State Portion which is 4 % . So if you want the hassle over $ 4 then by all means .
There are boats between Battambang and Siem Reap , they leave in the morning ( around 7am ) and take most of the day . You spend several hours on a small river where you can see tons of animals and birds , later you cross Tonle Sap Lake , the last part to Siem Riep is by jeep . It takes a while but its a great ride . The fruit shakes in Battambang are spectacular , do n't miss them . Edit : I just noticed , that you want to go from Siem Riep to Battambang , not the other way . They boats run in both directions , so the information above still applies .
There are definitely more buses than that ( not a lot more , but still ) , at least in the summer when there are a lot of tourists around , but information is difficult to find on the Internet . There are many different companies and they do n't all have up-to-date schedules on their website . The site <URL> seeks to gather information about public transport in Corsica and has information in both English and French . I recommend reading their <URL> . From <URL> , they list two buses a day in the summer ( late June to early September ) , taking a little over 2 hours . In the winter there 's only a single weekday bus . Alternatively there is a <URL> , taking a little over 3 hours , with 2 connections a day at different times in <URL> and <URL> . From <URL> , it 's not so good . The only suggestion is a combination of three buses , the last one being the Bastia to Calvi bus -- Bonifacio-Bastia-Calvi would be easier than Bonifacio-Calvi-Bastia . You 'd take the early morning or midday <URL> ( do check because that company have n't announced their July schedule yet ! ) , then <URL> and change as Casamozza for the <URL> , taking about 5 hours total .
It is , in my experience , either mandatory or forbidden , never optional . On a flight from JFK to JNB , we stopped in Dakkar . Some people left the plane because that was their destination . Then security came on , did a quick search of the empty seats , new people got on , insecticide was sprayed , and we left . On a flight LAX-SYD-Melbourne , everybody had to get off and the Melbourne people were told to stay in the gate area to line up and reboard . Also to take all their stuff with them . Keeping track of who left the plane and who did n't would be a nightmare . Even the Dakkar experience seemed suboptimal to me .
The most straightforward way would be taking the <URL> to Victoria Station ( the journey is about 30 mins ) . The Gatwick Station is directly connected to the South Terminal . From the North Terminal it 's a bit further and you need to take the automated shuttle train . Trains leave every 15 minutes . From Victoria Station you have no less than three options : take the underground/tube/metro / whatever-you-call-it Circle Line ( High Street Kensington direction ) and get out at Paddington stop . It 's gon na take about 20 minutes . Accordingly to Gagravarr 's comment you could also go from Victoria Line to Oxford Circus , then a cross-platform change to the Bakerloo Line up to Paddington . If the metro is closed , take the bus 436 to Paddington . For all those options , make sure you use the exit at the front of the train , not the exit on the upper floor through the elevators or escalators . You could also take a taxi , if the price is n't a concern for you . There are other possibilities I left out because they wo n't be faster or more straightforward than this . Note : be aware of the fact that , <URL>
The state run transport company , <URL> has very good well maintained a/c buses to Goa from Bangalore . You can check the availability and book tickets online from their website . Make sure to select service class as ' Premium ' to get a/c buses in your search results . Since Goa being a well known tourist place and April-June is summer vacation , it is advisable to book tickets in advance . Or plan your journey on week days .
Yes . Emirates offers nonstop flights from Dubai ( which is on the continent of Asia ) to both Rio de Janeiro ( GIG ) and S & atilde ; o Paulo ( GRU ) . Qatar Airways has nonstop service from Doha to S & atilde ; o Paulo . Near-misses : Etihad has <URL> that it will fly from Abu Dhabi to S & atilde ; o Paulo starting in June 2013 . Turkish Airlines flies from S & atilde ; o Paulo to Istanbul , whose airport is in Europe but is only 16 km from the Asia side of the Bosporus . These appear to be the only nonstop Asia flights . <URL> shows flights from S & atilde ; o Paulo to Seoul ( Korean Air ) and Singapore ( Singapore Airlines ) , but they have stops in Los Angeles and Barcelona respectively .
According to Amtrak at 800-USA-RAIL , you may check your baggage in as soon as the baggage department opens at the station . It 's 7:15 AM at my station . Perfect for my 10PM departure .
I broke down and traveled to to the bus station . They were able to process my refund at the ticket window . I needed to provide ( 1 ) photo id and the ( 2 ) reference number from the confirmation e-mail . The clerk printed the actual ticket , then I provided two signatures to complete the refund . ( I did n't realize a Greyhound bus ticket is NOT a reservation for a seat on the bus on that day like an airline ticket . Even though the confirmation e-mail lists the date and time of the departure and arrival , the ticket was valid for 1 year . I was thinking I need to get the refund before the scheduled date . According to the clerk , I could have processed the refund or used the bus ticket months after I originally planned to leave . )
Considerations : Dulles ( like BWI ) lies a considerable distance from the District ; there are no " obvious " options because each involves a tradeoff of time or money . Only Reagan National ( DCA ) is truly convenient to the city . If you have a large party or many bags , a taxi may be worth the hassle . There is no place to store bags when using public transportation , and a single ride on Metro can involve six or seven escalators -- which these days are often out of service . The Metro system is undergoing considerable construction and maintenance on evenings and weekends ; at other times it can be quite crowded . This has negatively impacted its speed and reliability . Silver Line Express bus Washington Flyer bus While the <URL> Metrorail does n't reach Dulles yet , the opening of its first phase to Wiehle-Reston East is already making your transit choices more interesting . The Washington Flyer shuttle to West Falls Church has been discontinued . The <URL> is its replacement , and is both cheaper and more frequent than its predecessor ( but see below ) . It will depart every 15-20 minutes from Wiehle-Reston East between 6am and 10:40 pm daily . From Dulles , Silver Line Express tickets will be sold on the arrivals level of the Main Terminal , and the bus will depart from Door # 4 ( where the Washington Flyer used to depart ) . The fare is a flat $ 5 each way . Note that this bus is operated by the airports authority , not by Metro , and so the WMATA SmarTrip card is not accepted for payment . The coaches are dedicated to the purpose , and include a luggage compartment below the cabin . Free Wi-Fi is promised on-board . The more frequent and faster connection to rail is made possible because of the shorter distance the bus travels , but of course this means a slightly higher Metro fare to cover that distance . Operationally , it will also take some months for Metro to get the kinks out of the Silver Line with regards to timing , as was the case for the other major expansions . Metrobus 5A A second , potentially cheaper option is to take the <URL> to Rosslyn ( ~ 45 minutes ) , then transfer to the Blue/Orange/Silver Line and ride out to Eastern Market ( 25 minutes ) . You can also stay on the 5A all the way to the end of the line at L'Enfant Plaza and board the Blue/Orange/Silver from there . This will take longer and mean more time on the bus , but if you arrive during the morning rush hour , it may be more civilized to keep your seat on the bus than to contend with the crowds at Rosslyn . The 5A is an express service that makes only one or two stops before Rosslyn ; however , it is an ordinary public bus , so at best it will have overhead racks for small bags , and it is often crowded . On the other hand , the fare is only $ 7 , whether using cash or a SmarTrip card . Bring exact change if paying with the former . Taxis You can pre-negotiate a pickup from a taxi company ( other than the airport taxi ) . The Washington Flyer Taxi has a monopoly on service to the airport and its <URL> are fixed ( about $ 75 to Eastern Market plus surcharges and tips ) . You can privately arrange for a different taxi or car service to pick you up , however , just as you might ask a friend or family member to pick you up . You can avoid the hassle of the taxi stand and maybe a few dollars as well , and if you come to Washington frequently , may be worth the investment of getting to know and keep a favorite driver . Uber / Lyft The legal status of Uber and Lyft in Virginia , as in many jurisdictions , is in flux . They can drop off passengers in Virginia , but have not been permitted to pick them up there in the past , including the airports . At this writing they are <URL> . Prices range from $ 50 for UberX to $ 105 for an UberSUV . Shared Van Another option is to take one of the shared van services . SuperShuttle 's <URL> is operated by the same company which runs the taxi fleet . <URL> began operating around 2012 . The vans make the most sense if you are traveling alone to a destination not well-served by Metro , but the rides can take a very , very long time if you are one of the later passengers to be dropped off . From Dulles , I generally only recommend this service for people traveling to the Virginia suburbs . One-way car rental Yet another option that makes sense for some is to <URL> from Dulles and return it to Reagan National the same day . Some rental agencies may waive the one-way fee on certain rate codes . If you have a good-sized party or many bags , this is sometimes an option . Of course , at least one person will need to take Metro or a taxi from Reagan National back to where you are in Eastern Market , and driving this route can be dicey during rush hours or if you are unfamiliar with the area .
If you use the <URL> , then for journeys involving King George Square station the planner will tell you which part of the platform to use , eg 7.10 pm Depart King George Square station , platform 2D That involves having internet access to look up your journey details , which may not be available . If you arrive at the station without having the chance to check online , then there is a big bank of screens above the escalators to each platform . These show the next 5 buses to call at each stop along the platform . Depending on the stop and the time of day , this could be anything between 5 minutes into the future and over an hour , so you may see what you need up there , or you may not . All depends on how soon until your bus . The displays look something like this : Alternately , there is a map of which routes use which stop . Annoyingly , it does n't seem to be available anywhere around the station entrance , nor just after arriving on the platform . I only found it almost at the far end of the platform , where it 's much less use as you 've already walked past most of the stop information boards ! The photo below is a bit blury , but should at least give you an idea of the information poster to look for if you need it . So , short answer - if you have internet and/or your bus leaves in a few minutes , you 're fine . Otherwise , you 'll probably have to walk along the platform checking each stop , unless Translink decide to be helpful and put up some more of the " which stop " posters in useful places ...
The Paris transport operator , <URL> You can input your start point , end point , and start time , and it will suggest routes to you . If you do n't want to worry about the bus , you can restrict it to rail ( so Train , RER and Metro ) only . Make sure you search for Aeroport or similar as your start point however , as France is full of places named after Charles De Gaulle . For your journey , the exact answer depends on the time of day you arrive , but taking the RER B to Châtelet-Les Halles and then the Metro line 7 towards Mairie d'Ivry looks the most straightforward . Châtelet is a big and confusing interchange however , so be ready for that . Broadly speaking , there are several main components of the Paris transport system : RER : this is the light rail system that links the suburbs of Paris ( including Aéroport Roissy-Charles De Gaulle ) and the city . It runs relatively fast , goes through very deep tunnels in the city itself , and each line will only have 3-5 stops within the city of Paris . The lines are given letters as names ( the one that goes to CDG airport is B ) . Arriving at CDG airport , you will see signs in the airport ( after bag collection ) saying " Paris by Train " - these will take you to the RER stop . Metro : this is the light rail system within the city , a conventional " subway " or " underground " type service . Services and stops are very frequent . As the stops are often close together ( in many places you can see the next platform from the one you are waiting at ) it often does n't make sense to use the metro unless you are travelling quite a few stops . Most metro lines either do n't leave the city proper , or only travel a very short distance outside . The metro is probably the most used service by tourists . Metro lines are identified by a number . Pierre et Marie Curie is on line 7 Bus : these are buses . There are huge numbers of them , and they go everywhere . Services like Roissybus run from the Airport to Opera . Buses can be intimidating to tourists , as you ca n't readily see on a map where they go and are subject to Parisian traffic . However , they can be both the cheapest and quickest way to get about ( CDG - Gallieni was much quicker by bus than RER + Metro for example ) . Buses are identified by number ( mostly ) , with numbers of up to three digits . Tram these are mounted on rails , but mostly sharing road space with other vehicles . They largely run " around " the ring of Paris , as opposed to the RER and Metro which largely run radially from the city centre . Trams are denoted by a T and a number . You can see Trams ( dashed lines ) , RER ( thick lines ) , Metro ( thin lines ) and mainline train services ( double lines , linked ) on the <URL> ( You can see CDG airport to the north-east ) . RATP <URL> , and paper maps once you get to Paris . There are a large amount of ticket options available . For the sake of your specific journey , you are probably best off buying a single ticket from the airport , to your destination , from a machine or office at the airport station . For future journeys , you may find a standard ticket , or a pass useful , but as CDG is a long way out , a pass that covers that journey to is probably bad value . You can read a full description of tickets ( in French ) here , including the " Billet Origine-Destination " <URL> There is <URL>
For a variety of reasons , unlike most countries , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . To repeat with a footnote , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . * For a foreign traveler , even a Canadian , this is a darn good reason to <URL> * The Transit Without Visa ( TWOV ) and International-to-International ( ITI ) programs were suspended in 2003 ; all passengers connecting from and to international flights must obtain a <URL> or be covered under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . If your flight is " <URL> , " say SNN-JFK or YUL-DCA , you will be processed for health , agriculture , customs , and passport/immigration at your departing airport . Your flight into the U.S. in effect becomes a " domestic " one and your transit " domestic " as well . But Costa Rica does not have a pre-clearance treaty with the U.S. , so that is besides the point . In other words , there is no transit lounge in an airport where through passengers can wait to transfer to an outbound flight . Upon landing at your gateway airport , all passengers will disembark directly to a processing facility where they will claim their bags and go through customs and immigration procedures for entry into the United States . An immigration officer can not just take your word that you are immediately connecting to an outbound international flight , because once you have been stamped in , you are inside the United States , and could simply leave the airport if you wanted to . So if they have cause to deny you admission to the U.S. , they will deny you . As when you are denied entry to any country , the airline that brought you there is required to fly you back to your port of embarkation on the first available flight . I do not know if you would even be allowed to use your onward ticket . So , given the risk of having your trip ruined , it seems a worthy investment to avoid connecting in the U.S. and/or to get some legal advice on removing whatever blocks there are to your admission to the U.S.
end question
start question
How to find out if your Japan - > Korea ferry is going to be cancelled by a typhoon ?
I looked at <URL> 's English and Japanese-language web sites , but neither of them appears to have any weather alerts , nor even any section for weather information or cancellations . Your best bet for accurate information , then , is probably to call them ( 092-281-2315 ) . That said , based on the weather prediction , I expect you 're going to be cutting it very close . The Beetle does claim a <URL> and the ability to operate in <URL> , so I expect that they will operate right to those limits . I would n't expect the final decision to run or cancel your particular ferry to be made until the last minute , taking into account weather conditions at the time .
Ask at your hotel or hostel . I work in a hostel and we have about four sets of scales so guests can make sure their luggage wo n't be over the weight limit for their flight . I 'm sure we 're not unique in this regard .
Thalys is an all reserved train service , and your ticket is only valid for the train booked . If you want to spend some time in Antwerpen just buy a Thalys ticket from Paris to Antwerpen , and buy another ticket for Antwerpen to Amsterdam . Between Antwerpen and Amsterdam you have the choice between two services . Thalys ( which again you need to reserve , and commit to a train ) . Intercity . This is a non reserved , turn up and go service . Buy tickets at the station for this .
While ( as I commented above ) this is highly subjective , let me give you some general calculation : Your 3000 EUR are roughly 390 ' 000 Yen . The very very decent version I chose the <URL> for location and took the smallest single room there for 15 ' 500 per day ( 16 ' 500 on Sundays ) for overall 218 ' 000 Yen . If have breakfast in a Sarbucks you spend about 1000 Yen , so another 14 ' 000 Yen is gone . Let 's take 1 ' 500 Yen for lunch , so 21 ' 000 Yen for the week and good quality 8 ' 000 Yen for dinner in average which makes 112 ' 000 Yen . All in all this will make 365 ' 000 Yen . This will leave you with 25 ' 000 Yen for subways and souvenirs etc. . The issue here is that you might run into taking taxis ( no trains late at night ) which are somewhat expensive and other stuff , so you might run into a shortage in the end . Careful planning is important on this budget . Also taxes etc might be a very tight fit for this but if you manage your costs properly and balance a bit for some days you can have a very decent high-class stay in Japan for 3k Eur . The budget version Cheaper version would be a cheaper hotel like the <URL> for about 6 ' 000 a night coming to 86 ' 000 for the 14 nights.Breakfast at a convenience store for 500 Yen ( 7 ' 000 ) , a budget lunch for another 1 ' 000 ( 14 ' 000 ) and a much more reasonable dinner for 5 ' 000 ( 70 ' 000 ) will get you there with 177 ' 000 Yen spent . You can check some average prices in restaurants <URL> and <URL> to get an overview . Note : There is <URL> for Tokyo Metros . The minimum is 1 month and costs 17 ' 300 Yen - which does not make sense for you .
Update : I did the trip ( August 2012 ) in the opposite direction . See below for details . It seems it can be done , but it ai n't no picknick . I 'm yet undecided as to whether I 'll do the trip , but the below seem to be the options . Note that the Scandinavia group ( though still running a website ) has n't operated at least since 2009 . Kampala to Lusaka by bus and train Kampala to Dar by bus , via Nairobi . 30 - 40 hours . Dar to Kapiri Mposhi ( ZM ) by train . ( There do n't seem to be scheduled direct busses , but I 'm not sure . ) 45 - 50 hours . Kapiri Mposhi to Lusaka by bus . 3 hours . That 's five travel days , with a night 's stopover to recover in Dar . Trains only go once a week ( on Friday ) . And a visa for Kenya is required . Kampala to Lusaka by bus Update : the road between Sumbawanga and Mbala is so bad , there is very little traffic and no public transport on this route . I updated the itinerary below . Kampala to Bukoba ( TZ ) by bus . 6 hours . Operator : Friends Safaris . Bukoba to Kigoma by bus . 15 - 17 hours . Kigoma to Mpanda by bus . 10 hours ? Mpanda to Sumbawanga by bus . 7 hours . Sumbawanga to Mbeya by bus . 7 hours . Mbeya to Tunduma ( ZM ) by bus . 2 hours . Tunduma to Lusaka by bus . 18 hours ? Six travel days , but sleeping in actual beds , whatever the state , every night . Annoyingly , not all connections are daily . Parts by ferry There 's a ferry running between Kigoma ( TZ ) and Mpulungu ( ZM ) on Lake Tanganyika . It takes a good two days , but only runs once every two weeks . It 's also theoretically possible to do Kampala to Mwanza ( TZ ) by boat on Lake Victoria . This takes about a day but is n't really practical for onwards travel . Update : Lusaka to Kampala ( August 2012 ) Day 1 Lusaka to Kapiri Mposhi by bus . Mazhandu is the better bus company , more reliable , cleaner , less crowded , but also less frequent . If you do n't want to have to take the 6am bus , but , say , the 8am , you have to go with Euro-Africa . Both charge 60000ZMK . Mazhandu takes reservations , you can pay in advance with Euro-Africa , but I 'm not convinced this constitutes a booking . So arrive in time . Kapiri Mposhi bus station to New Kapiri Mposhi train station by taxi . It 's walkable , at only a few kilometers , but the huge hassle at the bus station , mostly an overly busy tract of land , means there is something to say for taking a cab . Watch your stuff . 10000ZMK is reasonable for the trip . New Kapiri Mposhi to Mbeya by train . You can reserve the ticket at the TAZARA office on Lusaka , but there , they only sell tickets to Dar . The ticket needs to be picked up and paid for in New Kapiri Mposhi . 115000ZMK . Note that directly after crossing into Tanzania , paying in Zambian Kwacha on the train becomes difficult . You arrive on the next day , not unlikely a few hours late . You could take the train onwards to Dar , from where you can take a bus to Kampala which goes through Kenya ( Kampala coach ) or one which goes around lake Victoria directly to Uganda ( try Friends Safari , they should be able to hook you up , the contact details I had were soaked by ... a bucket of fish in one bus ' luggage rack ) . Or , from Dar , you could find your way to Mwanza , from where it 's possible to get on a cargo boat to Kampala or a bus or boat to Bukoba , from where you can connect to Kampala . If you are traveling through Mpanda ( like I did ) , you could get off the train at the border , in Tunduma . This , because traveling from Mbeya to Mpanda , you 'd be retracing your steps , going through Tunduma again . Getting off in Tunduma would save you perhaps a total of six hours , but requires you to stay in the somewhat dodgy border town . And getting on a bus toward Mpanda from Tunduma might be tricky . Day 3 The train from Kapiri Mposhi is an overnighter . In Mbeya , it 's possible to take a bus to Tabora , which is an awfully long ride , from where you could get to Mwanza , from where you could get to Kampala by cargo ship , or Bukoba by bus , from where you can get to Kampala by bus . I took a bus to Sumbawanga with Sumry . Up to Tunduma , the road is fine , but after that , it 's 225km of dirt road , all the way to Sumbawanga . The ride takes about 9 hours and costs 18000TZS . The bus has rows of 5 seats , is oversold , meaning some people have to stand , and every nook and cranny is stuffed with goods . I get a bottle of soda , a bottle of water and four biscuits from Sumry ( the only time this happened on the whole trip ) . But there are no rest stops , except for a break in the middle of nowhere where everyone went to pee or poo in the bushes . It 's possible to get to Mpanda from Mbeya straight , at 32000TZS , but that 's an extra 6-7 hours . If you break in Sumbawanga , stay at the lovely and affordable Moravian Church Conference Center ( no , I 'm not religious ) . Day 4 Get your ticket onwards as early as possible . On arrival , I got the last seat on the next day 's bus for Mpanda , at 14000TZS , from Sumry , for this 6.5 hour journey . Still , over half a dozen passengers had to stand . We stopped once for peeing in the bushes , once for
Well , it 's not yet a full answer , but it 's a start . The ferry leaves Mersin once a week . But ... as I write this ( October 16 , 2012 ) , after having spoken to Anrusstrans , the ferry has not run for the ' past month ' and will not run for ' at least another month ' . ( I might have an opportunity to try them again in April 2013 . Any updates in the meantime are most welcome . )
Even in ferries where your coach stays on the top deck , you sometimes have to leave the vehicle . This is because in case of accident , the fear is that it will take too long to escape the vehicle and the risk of going down with the ferry is high . And it is not just for rogue waves , it is also for the ferry getting hit by ( or hitting ) other craft on the water . Not all short term ferry crossings will make you leave a top side parked vehicle , but those where you are more likely to sleep are more likely to get you out . As for vehicles parked under decks , they always have a ' leave the vehicle ' rule with an extra rule of not being allowed on the deck during the crossing . Anybody sleeping in a car or coach will be unable to escape in case of accident , more so when the ferry capsizes , as the vehicles might move against each other and the ' walls ' of the ferry , while those people in cabins will have difficulties but do stand a chance to get out . Most ferries also keep the crew off those decks , but for a security check at regular ( or iregular ) intervalls , staying away from the parked vehicles as much as possible . Keeping passengers from those decks makes for a much smaller chance of thieves breaking open cars parked there , which is an additional reason . No links , as this is basic knowledge , added to by talking with friends ( and chance meeting with crew ) who work on ferries , ranging from the local cross shipping canal one to the Inter Island ferry , New Zealand , where I was allowed to accompany one of the staff on a round of the car and train deck .
Do n't worry . Finding temporary unskilled jobs in Australia is easy , the economy is booming and Australians do n't want to do them so hostels , cafes , restaurants , ski resorts , farms etc rely quite heavily on cheap , seasonal backpacker/working holiday labor . As Mark says , the easiest thing is to simply ask around at your hostel after arrival , but also take a look at <URL> to get an idea of the type of jobs and wages on offer .
Most tourists are not even looked at for this kind of thing as they have no value to the drug cartels . As always , you just have to be mindful and be safe . For taking the bus , one thing to consider is have a few peso coins handing for the restroom along the way . Also , take some toilet paper with you . As far as smuggling , border control is pretty tight , and getting through with anything smuggled is going to be quite difficult . Most of that stuff happens out in the desert anyway . Enjoy the bus ride , Dallas to Monterrey sounds like a great trip to take .
It 's pretty hard to prove a negative , but : The largest operator of trips to North Korea , <URL> , does n't mention long hair as an issue in their extensive <URL> or <URL> sections ; It 's not particularly hard to find trip photos featuring <URL> ; And I 'm positive I once read a Pyongyang trip report written by a ponytailed dude , but for the life of me I ca n't find it now .
Having had this problem happen to me today due to flooding , I 've discovered the answer buried at the bottom of the <URL> . If you decide that you no longer want to travel due to the disruption : Your ticket is non-refundable . However , if the train you purchased a ticket for is cancelled or delayed and as a result you decide not to travel a refund will be offered on completely unused tickets and you will not be charged an administration fee . If you still want to travel : If the train you purchased a ticket for is cancelled or is delayed and you still decide to travel , special arrangements will be made to accommodate you on another train ( although a seat can not be guaranteed ) . If you no longer want to travel , you just need to go to a ticket office with your ticket and seat reservation for the affected train , and ask for a refund . Depending on the station , it may or may not be easy to arrange , but it is possible . Alternately , you can send in a claim ( including the ticket + reservation ) as you would 've done for a long delay , but this is likely to take longer and result in a refund in rail vouchers . If you do want to travel , it 's generally best to go to the customer services desk and get them to endorse your ticket to indicate the restrictions are lifted . They can also provide advice at the same time about alternate routes . If it 's a major problem , you ought to be fine just hopping on another train , but for localised problems it 's best to get the ticket endorsed so staff on trains + stations elsewhere know immediately what happened .
Timatic is generally considered the definitive reference for Visas . It 's what most travel agents use when booking tickets , and what most airlines use when verifying you have the correct visa before boarding . In general <URL> is n't free , however a number of websites do allow free access to it , such as <URL> and <URL> . You can use either of these websites to check the requirements not only for your destination , but also any transit points .
You should be able to find the conditions on the airline website . Most of the conditions might be different from an airline to an other but you also have rights which are not airline-dependant . The one you might be interested in is <URL> . <URL> for RyanAir , for instance : 9.2.2 If your flight is cancelled or delayed for at least two hours , ask at the check-in counter or boarding gate for the text stating your rights , particularly with regard to compensation and assistance . ( <URL> ) See also Easyjet <URL> pertaining to flight delays and cancellations .
X Rays do n't penetrate metal . Circuit boards have a lot of metal and solder , making it easy to conceal items within . If the TSA ca n't see it , they get nervous . Hence the ' take out your laptop . ' ( Why they do n't require that of iPads , I do n't know . ) Now , all this being said , you can get bags that have laptop compartments . The only requirement is that they can see just the laptop and nothing else in there . This way , you do n't need to take it out . This trick , along with the " put all my electronics in my suit jacket , means that I get through the scanner as follows : belt and shoes , with my suit jacket in one bin unzip my backpack so that the laptop is flat and the rest is laying out in front my toilettries bag ( an old pencil case connected to the bag via a carbiner ) hooked to the top . I walk through , put my shoes and belt back on zip my bag back up put my jacket back on I 'm through in like 40 seconds .
I am from Croatia and I find their site confusing as well . Maybe <URL> can help you . IMHO , on this link you have very clear timetable for selected date if that is what you want to find
Here is a Canadian government website that will <URL> , whether briefly in transit or for a more extended visit . You can enter your country of citizenship and all other information about your trip , and it will tell you if you need a visa , and what visa you need . Some general rules : If you do n't need a visa to visit Canada , you do n't need a visa to transit Canada . This includes citizens of the US , UK , EU and many others . You can not stay more than 48 hours with a transit visa The Transit Without Visa program ( TWOV ) and the China Transit Program ( CTP ) allow certain foreign nationals to transit through Canada on their way to and from the United States without a Canadian transit visa , if they meet certain requirements . You can apply for a transit visa by filling out the application for a Temporary Resident Visa and selecting transit visa from the list of options on the form . You may not need a transit visa if you are travelling to or from the United States . If you are in doubt about your eligibility you can contact your nearest Canadian embassy by email or otherwise .
<URL> . There are no ferry connections between Greenland and Iceland , Denmark or Canada . However , more and more cruise shipping companies are choosing to include Greenland on their itineraries , whereby it is possible to begin the voyage from Iceland or go onboard at , for example , Kangerlussuaq . Greenland being an island , I hope it is obvious that there are no roads linking it to a continent . While theoretically the sea freezes , the ice is not traversable by anyone other than a well-prepared team equipped for arctic exploration .
As per this <URL> , Kingfisher has filed a fresh flight schedule with DGCA ( Director General of Civil Aviation ) . Apparently , they have cut down their total number of flights to 170 ( from around 248 ) daily . Here is the link for updated flight schedules for the month of February . <URL> . To answer the second part of your question , " We have received reports about large-scale cancellations . They are bound to inform us when they cut their schedule . But they have not done so , " DGCA chief E K Bharat Bhushan said the DGCA had sent messages to all other airlines to accommodate passengers stranded due to the Kingfisher cancellations . " They have to do this without enhancing the fares , " he said . <URL> . According to DGCA regulation ( Section 3.3 <URL> ) , when an airline cancels its flight due to reason within its control , it needs to compensate the passenger , provide alternative flight or mode of other transport . The amount of compensation could vary from Rs 2,000-4 ,000 . In such a situation , an airline can put its passenger on the flight of other airline by paying them the price . If the other airline has vacant seats , it can not refuse to take passenger . I am not sure how easy it will be to get a seat in another airlines though . Another factor to consider is that some of the routes that Kingfisher was operating in was serviced exclusively by them .
This Havataş bus appears to be new ( it 's certainly new to me ) , so I ca n't comment on their service . Istanbul 's public transit does not run regularly at night but the buses to Atatürk Airport are fortunately one of the exceptions . If you use the clunky ( in terms of interface and translation ) İETT <URL> website , you 'll find that there is a public transit option involving a change of bus that will get you to Yenikapı on time : You can only search on exact strings with correct accents so " Ataturk " and " Yenikapi " wo n't give you any results . The trip as quoted by the website will cost you four bus tickets which you 'll have to find , unless the bus drivers accepts cash ( technically they do n't sell tickets on the bus , but most drivers will actually do so by carrying electronic tickets which they sell privately ) . You might want to look into whether the 03:30 96T from does n't just continue through directly to as I expect it does , or if the 96T from at 05:36 did n't start at the airport . If nothing else , you 'll save yourself 2 bus tickets and an hour and a half sitting outside a mosque ( cami = mosque ) at night . Whatever you do make sure you have a backup plan because you ca n't trust the İETT website ! Keep an eye out for the Havataş bus since it 'll leave from the same place as the city buses ( but do n't get on the similarly-named Havaş bus ! ) . You should also be ready to abandon the whole public transit idea for a taxi at if you start running into problems . It 's not actually that far , so it wo n't run up too much of a fare .
While what constitutes a " best " spot is subjective , here are some popular options : <URL> This road is located in Tokyo , between the Gaienmae and Aoyama-Itchome stations . The best time to visit is from mid-november to early december . <URL> <URL> While this doesnt feature only Ginkgo trees , you can enjoy the view in this traditional japanese garden . <URL> <URL> The temple grounds feature many Ginkgo trees , plus you get so visit one of the biggest temples around . <URL> The lesson here is that there are n't many dedicated spots for Ginkgo trees , but they are more or less omnipresent in Japan . Visit during the end of november and you are sure to get your fill of beautiful colors . <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Is there a known maximum number of codeshare codes a flight can have ?
As far as I can tell , there seems to be no IATA or ICAO rule regarding the maximum number of codeshares a flight may be marketed under . I imagine there must be a technological limitation at some point , but having seven or eight codeshares is not terribly uncommon , and flights with a dozen or more have been reported in discussions <URL> and <URL> , for example . There is probably a way for someone with GDS access to deduce the most-codeshared current flight . Flight numbers and codeshares change frequently , so that would be the only definitive way , and only for a period of weeks at best . But the FT thread suggest SYD/MEL-AUH ; today 's schedule on FlightStats.com indeed turns up two Etihad flights with 14 and 12 codeshares respectively , more than any other city pair I tried : Etihad EY 455 SYD-AUH = A3 1915 , AB 4071 , AF 3821 , AZ 3925 , B2 355 , EI 8055 , HM 5105 , JU 8583 , KL 3939 , KM 2122 , ME 6637 , NZ 4255 , S7 4606 , VA 7093 Etihad EY 461 MEL-AUH = AF 3823 , A3 1911 , AB 4055 , AZ 3923 , B2 361 , HM 5101 , JU 8581 , KM 2158 , NZ 4261 , KL 3941 , ME 6639 , VA 7095 The best I could do in the domestic US market was a 10-codeshare ORD-ATL Republic flight : Republic YX 4289 ORD-ATL = AA 4289 , AB 4707 , BA 8420 , EY 3114 , GF 6792 , IB 7186 , MH 9592 , QF 4866 , RJ 7242 , US 8523
The earlier accepted answer by JonathanReez was written in 2014 . From December 2015 , <URL> .
<URL> allows you to specify almost any conveivable trip combination . You can specify the cities or airports to fly through , the layover times , the airline alliance or airlines and even the aircraft that you 're willing to fly . Example : If you wish to fly from London to San Francisco via New York with a stopover in New York of more than 48 hours on the outbound , only on aircraft operated by American Airlines , you would use LON : :O : AA * / minconnect 2880 to SFO : :O : AA * If you 'd like to further specify your requirements , I 'm sure we could supply you with the options you would need to use .
One of the options would be joining fencing schools . Some of these schools do not require a tight schedule to be followed - instead they run on a drop-in basis , which means you can just show up . Checking some of the schools ' websites showing that some of them offer free initial classes and cheap fees for classes after that . Please note , there might be other places where they provide you with real swords and real armors , but schools as seen in the photos are more likely to provide you with not so real swords and maybe no armors . Some random examples of schools from Google : <URL> <URL> <URL>
" Open jaw " is very much a common travel industry term , and in fact you 'll find it specifically mentioned in the fare rules for many fares . Any travel agent you talk to will also be familiar with this term . There 's three different types of " open jaw " itineraries . The first is where your trip starts and ends at the same airport , but the destination on the outbound is different to the start of the return . eg , SFO-JFK , IAD-SFO would be an example of this - the start and end is SFO for both legs , but the return starts from a different location to the initial destination . The second type of open-jaw is when your trip starts at a different airport to where it ends , but via a single destination . eg , SFO-JFK-LAX The third type is a combination of both of the above . eg , SFO-JFK , followed by IAD-LAX . This is referred to as a " Double Open Jaw " , as in effect there 's an open jaw on both ends of the trip . The rules for open-jaws vary between airlines and even between specific fares . Normally the rule is that the " non flown " part of the journey has to be shorter than BOTH of the flown sectors . eg , given SFO-JFK-LAX , the non flown part of the journey is LAX-SFO . eg , SFO-STL ( 1735 miles ) and ORD-SFO ( 1846 miles ) is a valid open jaw as the distance between the two cities is 258 miles , which is less than both of the flown legs . SFO-LAS ( 414 miles ) and DEN-SFO ( 967 miles ) is NOT a valid open jaw routing , as the distance between LAS and DEN is 628 miles , which is greater than one of the flown legs . Recently I 've seen a few fares where the rules were that the non-flown sector had to be shorter than the LONGEST of the flown journeys . eg , the following is from the fares rules for a United Airline international flight : OPEN JAWS FARES MAY BE COMBINED ON A HALF ROUND TRIP BASIS - TO FORM SINGLE OR DOUBLE OPEN JAWS . MILEAGE OF THE OPEN SEGMENT MUST BE EQUAL/LESS THAN MILEAGE OF THE LONGEST FLOWN FARE COMPONENT . To understand why open-jaw matters , you need to understand a little of how airlines price flights . Many airlines will price fares differently for one-way v 's return journeys , with return trips generally being far cheaper than two one-way trips . This is n't always the case - especially for domestic flights - but for international flights it 's extremely common . Without a concept of open-jaw , a trip like SFO-SIN , BKK-SFO would have to be booked as two one-way trips , which would increase the price significantly . Booking as an open-jaw allows this to be priced as a much cheaper return trip .
If you are a US citizen , you can indeed cross into Canada <URL> . For safety reasons , you may want to bring the original birth certificate , or at least a certified copy . If you are not a US ( or Canadian ) citizen or permanent resident , you can not enter Canada without passport : If you are a citizen of the United States , you do not need a passport to enter Canada . However , you should carry proof of your citizenship , such as a birth certificate , certificate of citizenship or naturalization , as well as photo identification . If you are a permanent resident of Canada or the U.S , you should bring your Permanent Resident Card with you . However , depending on how you 're travelling , you may have difficulties re-entering the US without a passport ! <URL> : When returning to the United States from Canada , it is very important to note that all U.S. citizens are required to present a valid U.S. passport to enter or re-enter the United States via air . For entry into the United States via land and sea borders , U.S. citizens must present either a U.S. passport , passport card , NEXUS card , Enhanced Drivers License , or other Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative ( WHTI ) - compliant document . The only exception to this requirement is for U.S. citizens under the age of 16 ( or under 19 , if traveling with a school , religious , or other youth group ) who need only present a birth certificate ( original , photocopy or certified copy ) , Consular Report of Birth Abroad , or naturalization certificate . So if your passport is delayed , make sure it arrives at your place in Canada on time .
Considering the airline in question is British Airways , you should be able to change any other flights if they are in the same booking . If you are booked to travel on a flight that is cancelled , you can either : Rebook onto another British Airways flight at a later date at no extra charge and subject to availability OR Cancel your booking and claim a refund to the original form of payment If your booking also includes any other BA flights that are not cancelled you will be able to change these flights at the same time . Source : <URL> The question remains if you get the same class while rescheduling because if you do n't then you will have to pay DOF ( Difference of Fare ) charges . This is an airline specific question , such conditions are subject to airline policy and they are the best place to contact for information . If your flight was n't BA then this wo n't be applicable .
The longest non-stop ( by <URL> source ) flight was Newark to Singapore on Singapore Airlines flight SQ21 which is and 18 hour 50 minute flight of some 15,345 km . However , as of November 2013 , Singapore Airlines has discontinued this route . However for single flight number , allowing stopover , things are hard to research . Not many websites list tables of distances by flight number . So I resorted to thinking of a route and then looking on the airline websites to see if it was one flight number or split over two flight numbers . I suspect the longest route that could be a single flight number and have a stopover would be Northern Europe to Australia . So I searched on several airlines for flights . I found a few contenders ( but no definitive answers ) : NZ1 and NZ38 , both on Air New Zealand fly London to Auckland with a stop in Hong Kong in 26 hours and 40 minutes . A distance of 18,463 km . QF320 on Qantas and BA15 on British Airways fly London to Sydney with a stopover in Singapore . They both take 22 hours and 50 minutes . QF1 on Qantas goes from Sydney to London , again stopping in Singapore and is 23 hours and 25 minutes .
There is really no way to get the exact flight path at the time of booking unless you buy the ticket at the airport . And even then the flight plan may change due to unexpected conditions or air traffic control suggestions . The best you can do is to look at services like <URL> or <URL> that will give you historical flight paths for a given flight and you can guesstimate at what the flight path will look like although <URL> that will change a flight path of a given or multiple flights so it looks nothing like the ones previously .
A great place to have a bird 's eye view of Boston is the Skywalk Observatory . It is located at the top of the Prudential Center . Please find the link below : <URL> It is not free but it is n't too expensive and open to the public Ticket Prices : Adults $ 13.00 Seniors $ 11.00 Children under 12 $ 9.00 Student with college ID $ 11.00
As vclaw said you can use OpenStreetMap Data to find postboxes . An easy way to achieve this would be to use the Overpass API to download a GPX file and to add this to you GPSr . I prepared a sample query for Vienna and postboxes <URL> . As you can see , you can export the data in different formats , one of them is GPX . Change the coordinates for other cities or the whole EU and maybe try to add <URL> if you like .
Public Hammams in Morocco When I read hammam I immediately thought of Morocco . Indeed hammams are extremely common there , to the point that every neighborhood in Marrakech has its own public hammam along with its own mosque ( hammams can be used for religious ablutions ) . I suspect the same would hold for Rabat and other large cities . Locating public hammams is fairly easy : look for buildings with one outer wall visibly stained charcoal-black by the smoke of the wood burning to warm up the water . Personally I would go to a public hammam . It does n't get any more authentic than that . Looking around I found <URL> . Quoted below are bits and pieces of this information : What to bring to a hammam Moroccans take the following toiletries to the bathhouse : soap , shampoo , scrub glove , towel , small , jug-style plastic bucket to pour water over your body , swimsuit or extra underwear shaving cream and razor . Hammams usually sell travel-size bottles of shampoo and soap . When available , buy " sabon beldi , " a unique black olive oil soap . You will find this easily in the souks . Also ask if they sell " ghasoul " or " rhassoul " , a lava clay that is used to scrub the skin . [ ... ] Hammam etiquette There are a couple of things that you can do to upset Moroccans in a hammam . Wasting water is one of them . Water is scarce in Morocco and splashing it around in large quantities is considered imprudent and rude . Only use as much water as you need to wash and rinse . Even more seriously offensive is stripping completely naked in a hammam . There are no exceptions in men 's bathhouses , but in some women 's hammams people have reported Moroccan women going complete naked . Still , women tourists should only bare all when they see Moroccans doing it . As a general rule keep panties on ! ( take a spare dry pair to change into afterwards ) . Although hammams are basically for hygiene , they also have an important social function . This is especially true for more " traditional " women , who rarely leave their house except for a visit to the hammam . People like to chat in hammams , discussing the latest news and gossip . As a tourist , you may be quite an event in a public hammam . You will receive a lot of attention . Enjoy your special status - a hammam is a great place to get to know Moroccans . Do n't be surprised if you 're invited over for drinks or dinner . Private Hammams in Morocco A valid alternative to the public hammams , although arguably less authentic , are the ones which can be found in most ryads and hotels . Sometimes these are complementary with your stay , most of the time they are not . Very often you 'll get a head-to-toe treatment in a slight more luxurious way that you would in a public hammam , since in the latter you 'd most probably have to do everything yourself . Being private does n't make the experience any less authentic . Rather it just makes it more private : very often there will be just you and the person taking care of you in the hammam . Private hammams will also be considerably more expensive than the public ones ( something like 10 times more expensive ) . Quoting from <URL> : How much a hammam costs A bath in a public hammam usually costs around 5 or 10 dirham . Towels , soap and other toiletries are available for a couple of dirhams . If you take a massage from one of the staff in a public hammam , you are expected to tip him 10 or 15 dirham . As you leave the bathhouse , it 's custom to tip the front desk attendant one or two dirham . Hammams in hotels and riads ask up to 300 to 500 dirham for a hammam experience . Expect to pay another few hundred dirham for a massage .
You are not permitted to sit in a different cabin from your ticketed cabin unless you are moved there by the cabin crew ( say , there is a medical problem and extra seats are needed mid-flight -- though you 'd still probably get reseated in crew seats instead of in business class ) . " Self-upgraders " will be discovered very quickly and removed as a matter of policy on any airline . Why not allow people to move to empty seats ? One might as well ask why not allow people at the gate to fill empty seats in the economy cabin . The plane is leaving one way or the other , so those seats would be " wasted " too . But the airline must protect its revenue and minimize its costs . If it tolerated people moving up without paying , it would both disincent people from purchasing premium fares ( whether revenue or award ) , and also incur costs that it would not otherwise have had to bear . Seats on an airplane are priced according to how the airline believes it can make a profit , taking many factors into consideration . Premium cabin prices reflect the premium people ( or rather more often , their employers ) are willing to pay for a more comfortable flight and a more exclusive cabin , as well as the higher costs of operating : There are fewer seats for the given space , so each seat must cost more to make the equivalent revenue There is a higher grade of service in those cabins ; for example , there is a higher ratio of flight attendants to passengers , and the flight attendants have more responsibilities ( e.g. addressing passengers by name , distributing pajamas ) . Flight attendants are expensive . The amenities in premium cabins are more expensive , not only to purchase but to prepare . In economy , your meal probably comes on trays that come straight out of the oven . In international first , you would expect your meal to be plated , which takes much more time and effort . It is already the case that when the economy cabin is full , gate agents will upgrade people who are high status frequent flyers and/or on very high fare tickets , according to each airline 's rules and procedures ( operational upgrades ) . American , Delta , and United indeed offer " automatic " upgrades to their elite frequent flyers on domestic flights . But even in these cases , some seats may go out empty . For example , the airline may be unable to cater enough meals for a full premium cabin , and the airline would not want to risk upsetting a paying customer by failing to deliver the promised level of service .
From the information provided online it seems that you may only have to pay for a date change which is as follows : Flight change fee 50 % of the original fare . Minimum and maximum amount of the fee is shown in the table . via wizzair.com Per flight , per passenger $ 10.00 - $ 60.00 / # 9.00 - # 53.00 <URL> This accounts for the original fare only . The baggage which you purchased is a separate add-on just like WIZZ Xpress priority boarding etc ; so they wo n't account to date changes . If you are still not satisfied you should contact there customer service @ 0330 977 0444 ( UK Number )
<URL> allows you to track a plane by it 's registration number . You should be able to look up the flight number , and if there is an aircraft assigned to that flight , you should be able to track the previous assignments by the tail number . This is the screenshot for N583NW which is scheduled to go from Detroit to Fort Lauderdale ( DL2002 ) at 13:15 , but is 10 minutes delayed . We can see the flight previous to this was Orlando to Detroit ( DL2460 ) , which actually landed ahead of schedule .
It appears from @KateGregory 's research there are no longer any original ships of the line sailing in Britain or the world . I have found there is a 6th rate ship of the line ( frigate ) replica named the <URL> which is still sailing , used in the ITV series of Hornblower . Also of interest for Australians and New Zealanders , there is a replica of <URL> Sadly there are no original ships of the line still sailing . Probably the closest is the Grand Turk .
Not quite sure why would you need a special device . Anveo ( which I use ) or voip.ms and a VoIP app on your smartphone/tablet/laptop ( I am using Zoiper ) will do just fine . A Canadian number costs less than two dollars . I use this setup both inside and outside of Canada and it works .
Short : I do n't know the real world answer , but , based on the assumptions listed below , on a standard 10,000 foot international runway a fully laden A380 will begin to be in trouble at much over 1 minute and in deep trouble at about 70 seconds ( eg removing the pieces of perimeter fence from the landing gear may be problematic ) . The 45 seconds or so that I 've experienced in a 747 felt " much too long " . If you wanted to do the longest possible run " just for fun " a craft with a very low takeoff velocity on a 12,000 foot runway could toddle into the air after more than 2 minutes of takeoff run , with room to spare . I have experienced somewhere in the range of 60 to 100 airline takeoffs in the last 5 years ( trips blur , I should make a record ) . I roughly note the time taken for most but not all takeoffs . I do not record the results but my impression is that they are typically longer on average now than they were 5 years ago . I 'm told ( no reference ) that longer takeoff runs use less fuel . In my experience mid 20 second runs happen , high 20 's to low 30s ' are more usual . I have had one run which was well over 40 seconds - I was getting mildly concerned :-) . I asked the pilot about it afterwards and he said it was not exceptional with a heavy load . International runways are typically 10,000 feet long . Some are around 12,000 feet - but the added length is usually aimed at allowing very heavily loaded freight planes to land . Assume A 12,000 foot runway Liftoff speed of 120 mph = 176 fps = 192 kph = 53 m/s ( which is about 66 % of an A380 's nominal takeoff speed of 78 m/s ) . All runway used Constant acceleration from rest . Mean velocity = Vtakeoff/2 = 176/2 = 88 fps . Liftoff time is Length / Vmean = 12000 / 88 = 136 seconds = 2 minutes 16 seconds . The same calculation with an A380 with liftoff at 78 m/s = 256 fps . Mean V is now 128 fps . Liftoff time is 12000/128 = 94 seconds . Now try a 10,000 foot runway A380 etc. . 10,000 / 128 = 78 seconds . Allow a 10 % " safety margin " ( you crash slightly slower :-( ) and you get 9000/128 = 70 seconds . Related : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> - at least 4000m / 13.123 feet !!! <URL> - 18,045 feet !!! Q : Why ??? A : Altitude = 14,219 feet . Oh ! <URL> - 17,723 feet Q : Why ? A : Altitude 404 feet . Q ; Why ??? A : Once used for testing Buran Spaceplane . Oh ! <URL> Image below is from link above - Unrelated :-) - encountered along the way <URL> Zero seconds liftoff run !
Here is the list for airports equipped with Automated Passport Control ( APC ) to serve ESTA holders in addition to US and Canadian passports holders , from the <URL> as of now : Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport ( ATL ) Austin-Bergstrom International Airport ( AUS ) Boston Logan International Airport ( BOS ) Charlotte Douglas International Airport ( CLT ) Chicago Midway International Airport ( MDW ) Chicago O’Hare International Airport ( ORD ) Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport ( DFW ) Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport ( DTW ) Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport ( FLL ) Houston George Bush Intercontinental Airport ( IAH ) Los Angeles International Airport ( LAX ) Miami International Airport ( MIA ) Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport ( MSP ) Montréal - Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport ( YUL ) New York - John F. Kennedy International Airport ( JFK ) Newark Liberty International Airport ( EWR ) Orlando International Airport ( MCO ) Philadelphia International Airport ( PHL ) Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport ( PHX ) Seattle Sea-Tac Airport ( SEA ) Tampa International Airport ( TPA ) Toronto Pearson International Airport ( YYZ ) Vancouver International Airport ( YVR )
Yes , website that reference those codes do exist . CouponsHelper is an example . Better than referring to a website , I suggest installing the <URL> if you use Firefox as your web browser . Basically , every time you come across a website that has coupon number entry , a prompt appears on the top of the browser with known working coupon numbers for that website . It works with various retailers , including travel-related services . For instance , codes are suggested when booking a ticket on the French railways website .
end question
start question
How long does it usually take to obtain a Sri Lankan Electronic Travel Authorisation ( ETL ) online ?
It was practically instantaneous for my wife and when we applied a year ago . I submitted the online application on 28 January 2013 21:05 and received the approval on 28 January 2013 21:10 , and my wife had an identical experience . We were also applying for a 30 day tourist visa . In case you think nationality might be relevant ( it could be ) : We were both travelling with Irish passports , flying in from Chennai , India .
The answer to this is : Fairly . I did n't use a colectivo in the end myself - for our group and distance , a Taxi only cost 30 MXN more . The walk from the highway is real , but probably only 500m - 800m or so . There is a sidewalk on the highway overpass ( if you need to get to/from that side of the road ) . Once over the highway there is a footpath seperated from the road to take you to the entrance .
One reason is that not every country has computerised their passport/visa system . They 're coming along , but still . In addition , not every country 's system is linked together . So even if you scanned it in at one border , you ca n't tell that 's happened at the next . Crossing into Zambia in 2005 , they opened their book to the date , drew in a line for New Zealanders , and literally crossed off 5 lines ( | | | | with a -- through the four vertical lines ) . It costs a LOT of money . Some countries ca n't afford the investment to get all those systems built , and staff trained to use them . It 's cheaper to hire some chap who can ask questions and cross off lines in a book . So given all the different computer and paper based systems , the only way to transmit the fact that you have a visa , is to carry a piece of paper - ie , a stamp/visa . However , it 's improving . With the arrival of those smart passports with chips in them , we now have a common way of having data stored electronically and ( mostly ) securely . Next that needs to turn into visas . New Zealanders arriving home ( or visiting Australia ) can merely walk to a barrier , scan our chipped passports , get a photo taken and walk through . British citizens arriving home can have their iris scanned , no stamp required . So these are slowly changing , but will take time . In the meanwhile , you get to collect cool stamps ! :)
It 's pretty hard to prove a negative , but : The largest operator of trips to North Korea , <URL> , does n't mention long hair as an issue in their extensive <URL> or <URL> sections ; It 's not particularly hard to find trip photos featuring <URL> ; And I 'm positive I once read a Pyongyang trip report written by a ponytailed dude , but for the life of me I ca n't find it now .
I was in the same situation a year ago . It took me about 4 weeks to receive my Passport in the mail . Keep in mind , that you will need to send your original birth certificate with your passport application so you will be without that while you wait . According to Consular Affairs , it takes 4-6 weeks for routine service but you can opt for expedited service . All things considered , I would say begin applying for your passport at least 2 months in advance of your travel date . Any later , and you may be cutting it close . <URL>
" Big ships " ( e.g. cruise ships ) , have very specific needs . Your chances of getting a job with one of them soar if you can meet one of those needs . " Recreational sailor " probably does n't " cut it " in this regard . Sailing ships need professionals . Most ships have computer and internet services . Your best shot may be at an IT role , but there may be more applicants than places . If you have hardware maintenance experience and are handy with tools ( you 're sailing experience suggests you are ) , you might be able to land a job in general maintenance . If you have an " esoteric " science backround ( e.g. in electrical engineering ) , that could be helpful . Otherwise , you 'd need to get job in some form of " customer service . " This could be manning the booking desks , or even cleaning rooms or " waitstaffing . " Make it clear that you expect very little pay , just " room and board " and some walking around money . You will be competing for these roles with candidates from developing countries . As for contact , I 'd stay away from the agencies , which have their own interests and not yours . Most of the shipping lines like to recruit at key ports ( not in the U.S. ) . Vancouver comes to mind for a Canadian . Otherwise London , Amsterdam , Hamburg , Hong Kong . Maybe somewhere off the beaten track such as Gdansk or Oslo . Good luck .
People in CS can tell on their profile which is the maximum number of nights they want to host , so I think that filtering on that you will be able to identify the kind of hosts that fit your travelling policy . In my personal experience , being member of CS since the beginning of 2009 and living in Pisa ( so , a lot of requests every day ) , people ask for 1 to 3 nights so , yes , it is unusual to stay for more than 3 days . Of course this can depends on the nature of the city : Rome is not visitable in just two days while Pisa is . Moreover , it is not unusual for people to ask to be hosted several times , usually at the beginning and at the end of a trip . That 's what happened with some Americans I hosted when they landed in Pisa and at the end of their travel through Italy before taking the plane back .
Both the USA and Canada only require a passport to be valid for the period of intended stay FOR GERMAN CITIZENS . Normally when entering the USA and Canada you would be granted entrance for 90 days/6 months respectively , however given your passport will expire before that period is up you will only be granted entry until the expiry date on your passport . In future I would strongly recommend not cutting it this close with the expiry . If something goes wrong whilst you are in the country and you end up having to stay longer than expected it can cause real problems . Some countries also enforce that your passport must be valid for at least 6 months at time of entry , but thankfully neither the US or Canada do that for GERMAN CITIZENS however the US does requite 6 months validity for citizens of many countries .
Immigration and Customs is not easy to judge in the US . It all depends on flight arrival time , number of immigration staff on desks , any delays experienced to all incoming flights , if you get of the plane first or last , number of people to process , types of visas etc etc. . In my experience I have waited between 30 minutes in line and 3 hours in line . If I were in your situation then I would either be conservative with the shuttle booking and go for 2 -3 hours plus , or use the train from Newark to Penn and make my own way to the hotel .
There are two answers here . The correct thing to do would be to get an <URL> ( " Temporary Admission " ) , which basically certifies that whatever you 're importing is going to go back out again , so you do n't have to pay taxes and duties on it . <URL> , although there are some awkward conditions about them being " restricted to goods imported for display or use at approved exhibitions / fairs and similar events " , although this is <URL> . Opting for this route will entail a full-on battle with Indian bureaucracy and you will almost certainly want to engage professional assistance . If you ca n't get a carnet , you 'll need to post a Customs bond equivalent to the value of the taxes and duties you 're not paying , which will be even worse to deal with . In case that all sounds too scary , the practical thing to do would be to just import it with no declaration of any kind and hope Customs does n't realize how valuable your item is . The odds of success are 99 % , particularly if you 're white ( unfortunate but true ) and can project the well-connected-businessman-so-don ' t-even-think-of-hassling-me vibe ... but it could get seriously complicated and expensive if you luck out .
As far as cash-based expenditures : Carry around a mini-pocket sized notebook and a golf-pencil ( or similar equipment to your liking ) . Date the page , and then every time you make a cash purchase , jot down the amount and a quick note about where or what the purchase was for so you remember when you are doing your ledger later . The sooner you write down the expenses , the easier it will be to remember the exact amount and what it was for . You may want to count the cash in your wallet before and after the outing if you anticipate lack of time to make a quick note in your notebook , or make the note as soon as conveniently possible after the fact ( eg : wait till you sit down on the bus to write down what you spent on bus fare when entering ) . What to track primarily depends on what purpose tracking the expenses is for . If you are just trying to make sure you stay within a budget , you might track differently than if you are trying to estimate how much to set aside for a future trip of similar duration . If keeping track of " holes " in the expenses ( eg : someone else treated you to dinner ) you would probably want to jot a note where that expense should go so you can remember to adjust for that in your estimations for future expenses .
An American breakfast is simply the American variant of an <URL> , which is elsewhere an <URL> -- what Wikipedia in its neutralism calls a <URL> , in contrast to the so-called <URL> . A full breakfast is a " heavy " breakfast high in animal protein such as eggs , sausage , ham , and/or bacon , often fried . The American variant will have some kind of bread such as flapjacks/pancakes , French toast , or a waffle , and American-style sausage or bacon . I have rarely seen a hotel " American " breakfast that includes genuinely American dishes like waffles and chicken , grits , or biscuits and gravy .
Yes . I have seen small bags that could have been carried going around on the baggage belt . I have personally checked a bag larger than a purse , but small enough that it could be carried on , on several occasions with several different airlines . Some important considerations : can you close it completely and securely ? If you mean " handbag " like the North American word " purse " , not all such bags zip shut , they may just have a clasp . You need to make sure nothing will fall out no matter how the bag is turned , dropped , thrown etc. . Does it have prominent handles ( as some purses and backpacks do ) that might catch on handling equipment ? If so you should work out how to constrain them - bungee cords , wrapping in plastic , or the like lithium batteries , including spare laptop batteries or external batteries for phones , are not allowed in checked luggage . If you have such things you will need to move them to whatever you are carrying on . You may be charged a fee for each bag you check Other than that I do n't expect a problem . I have yet to meet an airline that had a minimum size limit for checked bags .
The French Consulate web site says the working holiday visa takes an average of 2 weeks , but 1 week is generally ok . We have an applicant of our <URL> program applying tomorrow , so will let you know the latest processing time . The quickest time this year has been 3 days , but it does vary .
Doing so seems impossible before check-in but is no hassle at ( online - ) check-in . So I did call up website support and customer service of Lufthansa and Miles &amp; More . Staff was not knowledgeable on my request and they even wrongly told me there was no chance to change the loyalty program selected during booking at all ( but the same employee did take out the originally selected program from the records ) . However it was no problem selecting the milage program to which to credit miles at online check-in .
To avoid disturbance from small children , you can use a multi-pronged approach : first , try to choose flights that are more of a hassle for parents . Generally this means night flights - some parents may be sure their child will sleep ( and not bother you ) but others are worried the child will not sleep and will cry . So they take a daytime flight and are willing to entertain them for the length of the flight second , try to minimize the impact of the child on you . Buy a more expensive ticket - first , business , even economy plus . Children are of course allowed in the more expensive zones , but they are in substantially fewer numbers . In some cases these children are experienced and quiet flyers , accompanying parents who have been kept awake by other people 's children in the past . And do what you can to improve things at whatever seat you have . Bring noise cancelling headphones in addition to earplugs , for example . Bring some sort of music you can play that will drown out the repetitive reading . third , try to react in the moment in some way that is more positive than sitting in your seat seething . Go for a walk . Strike up a conversation elsewhere on the plane . Turn around and interact with the child , such as playing peek a boo over the back of your seat . It 's probably likely to be quieter than the reading and even endear you to the parents . Tell the child your name and ask theirs , and smile . If in a few hours you want to ask the parents if there 's a quieter form of entertainment available , you wo n't be the grumpy gus in the next row , you 'll be the toddler 's airplane friend . fourth , try to be realistic . No toddler does anything for 12 hours . They nap , they eat and drink , and so on . Focusing on the behavior that irritates you , to the extent you genuinely recall that it took the entire flight time , leaves you with a bad cloud around you that can take days to shake . When the noise starts , tell yourself it wo n't last the whole flight . Do something positive , listen to something , take yourself away from the noise . When the noise stops , be grateful , even if it 's just a short respite . And finally , when you leave the plane , be grateful that you are now done with that child and do n't have to hear the noise or put in any effort to try to prevent bedlam . The parents will still be on duty for hours more today , and for another few decades in general . Count your blessings !
According to the <URL> : Residents of the 33 approved countries can obtain a Tourist Visa upon arrival . The visa can be purchased for a nominal fee at the airport or port . It can also be issued online instantly prior to travel . This visa is valid for one month and can not be extended . The <URL> are : Fees Visa issuance fees : QR 100 for each visa , QR 50 for each accompanying person and QR 200 for overstay fine per day . At the current exchange rate this works out to ~ 28 . This visa is valid for one month and non-extendable .
If you go to the website of the <URL> , you can find ( although a bit hidden ) a page where they state that the consular department started since 8 . January 2013 to process digital visa applications coming from <URL> . So if you go to that site you should be able to get your Visa Otherwise , there are agencies like <URL> and <URL> .
I use momondo.com . They aggregate results from other travel agencies and they offer a nice map search feature . Find your city on the map , find the conference venue and then look for hotels nearby .
Depends on the security measures of your departure airport . For example : <URL> All types of razor are prohibited . Therefore , passengers should not have any sharp objects with them or in their hand-carried baggage ( for example pocket knives , nail files , box cutters , razors , scissors , corkscrews , any sharp/pointed objects , etc. ) <URL> Plastic moulded razors are allowed , but razors that can be opened and razors with changeable blades are prohibited . I assume disposable razor = plastic moulded razor . Razors that have the blade set into a plastic moulding are allowed , but razors that can be opened and the razor blade removed are prohibited <URL> Disposable Razors ( including razor with removable razor blades/catridges ) are permitted . I believe the scissors you mentioned have length > than 4 inches , that 's why it was confiscated . Scissors - metal with pointed tips and blades shorter than four inches are permitted . Razor-Type Blades - such as box cutters , utility knives , and safety razor blades are not permitted . ( disposable razors and their cartridges are permitted ) My advice is to check the security section of your departure airport 's website .
end question
start question
Best Greek islands for off-season travel ( Late October-November ) ?
Tough question ! Each island is different and it 's difficult to vote for the " best " ones . In addition , I do n't think there more than 100 living persons that have actually been to all of them to be really able to compare them ( ~ 6000 islands from which the 117 are inhabited ) . Nevertheless , I 'll try to share my opinion taking into account the preferences that you 've listed . I 've been to a lot of them but mostly in summer ( June-August ) . Greek islands are much different during winter , and in my opinion more beautiful ( even if you lose all the action , the sun , the snorkeling etc ) . Please note also that in November , there 's no partying in any Greek island and most probably you will be cut from most tours and historic sites . The ones with the most available choices at this season , are the biggest ones , with enough local population to make keeping the businesses open worthwhile . Crete , Rhodes , Corfu/Kerkyra . In Crete you will never get bored , there are many things to do and visit . Great archeological sites . Amazing food . Airplane is a real option . It 's in the south , you will get the best weather possible ATM in Greece . On the other hand , you wo n't get a feeling that you are actually in an island , has similarities to the mainland . As with all these 3 islands , it 's way too big , you will have to rent a car . Rhodes is a very beautiful city , with a nice medieval flavour that you wo n't experience anywhere else in Greece . Most businesses will be open , because the city has a university and therefore a vivid life . A lot of different landscapes to explore . You are in the <URL> , so you can easily jump into a ferry a visit in a few hours a nearby remote island for a couple of days . Corfu is another island with fortifications made by the Venetians . Nice city , quite touristic during summer with a lot of Italians visiting . Go to the close ones to you , in the Ionian sea . Zante/Zakynthos , Kefalonia and Lefkada are big enough to have all the necessary services . There 's nothing to be afraid of , you wo n't be left alone in a deserted island :) IMO Kefalonia and Lefkada have nice nature too . Zante unfortunately the last decades has been more prone to self-destruction in the name of quick profit . Go to the Cyclades . Very different style from all the aforementioned islands . Usually the main village ( called " Χώρα " = " Chora " which can be literally translated as " country " ) is a picturesque village with narrow sidewalks and little white-blue houses as you have probably seen in movies or in advertisements . Santorini , Mykonos , Sifnos , are all big enough and well known to have a decent amount of things to do even during winter . Santorini has a volcano , amazing scenery , but be careful , it might be more expensive compared to the other options . Finally , consider the idea of island hopping in smaller islands . I usually take 2-3 close islands in a row :) This is easier to do in the Cyclades , Dodecanese or Sporades where islands are close to each other . Also I personally prefer visiting much smaller islands than what I 've proposed you . I 've had my best trips in islands with less than 200 inhabitants , even during winter ( Donoussa , Koufonissia , Kastelorizo , Agios Eustratios , Psara , Kassos , Arkious etc ) . But in these cases being a Greek may have made the interaction with the locals easier and you know what to expect in every situation . Hope that helps ! In any case , enjoy your stay :)
The one and only country-wide official source is the <URL> , the Brazilian 's government official body for road transportation . Apparently its an unfriendly website to get to grips with . This blog entitled " <URL> " provides additional resources for the ANTT ( inc. a step by step guide to using the ANTT site ) &amp; other sites relating to bus travel within Brazil :
Chesterfield appears not to have much in the way of car rental agencies . That aside , here 's a comparison of various towns dotted outside the Peak District : Since it looks like a car rental agency can always be found within 10 minutes of walking or public transport from the train station , Derby looks to be the winner as it 's both easily reached by train and less than an hour 's drive from the centre of the Peak District . I 'm open to running numbers on other locations if suggested . These are just culled from scouting around the surrounds of the Peak District on Google Maps .
So I ended up going to the source , <URL> . They 've just <URL> , saying that YES , they are transferable , and provided a <URL> : The link is basically instructions on use of one of these certificates , and from those instructions it 's merely a code , so not bound to any particular passenger .
There are no rules , either TSA , FAA , airline or otherwise , that would stop you from taking a wireless mouse ( or most any other " transmitting " device ) through security and onto a plane . However once you 're on the plane there are rules specific to radio transmitting devices , which a wireless mouse is . With very few exceptions , the rules are broken into two phases of flight - take-off/landing , and cruise . During take-off and landing , or specifically the period of flight when the plane is below 10,000 feet , no electronic devices are allowed to be used . That includes computers , wireless mouse , wired mice , kindles , MP3 players , etc. . Specifically those devices need to be turned completely off . In the case of a computer , that means " off " , not just " standby " . In the case of a wireless mouse , that would also mean that the mouse would need to be turned off . During the rest of the flight , electronic devices may be used , with some conditions . The largest condition is that any device with a radio transmitter must have the transmitter disabled UNLESS it is a specific approved type of transmitting device . On some aircraft - primarily those that provide inflight WiFi - computers with wifi are considered an approved transmitting device , and thus may be used . On most other aircraft , basically all transmitting devices are not allowed . Specifically for a wireless mouse , this is a transmitting device , and thus technically is not allowed to be used during flight . It must be turned off completely when below 10,000 feet , and either turned off or have it 's transmit function disabled above 10,000 feet . As you almost certainly ca n't ( independently ) turn off it 's transmit function , that pretty much means it must be off the entire flight . Realistically I 'm sure everyone knows that the power output from a wireless mouse is n't going to be sufficient to interfere with the aircraft in any way , but the approach that has been taken is to simply disallow all transmitting devices , and then only allow those that have been suitably tested and approved . ( Whether this approach is the correct approach is a conversation best had over a beer and not on Travel.SE ! )
Old undiscovered islands is possible , but unlikely , given we have satellite imagery of the earth down to very high resolution detail . However , there are plenty of examples of mistakes being made , and some islands that we ' know about ' may not even exist . As recently as 2012 , <URL> despite being on historical maps for 150 years , and even on Google Maps ! Then , volcanoes are creating new islands every so often with eruptions . Just a few months ago , a <URL> . This is fairly common for smaller ones to be made , but they do n't often last long , so this was special . But given that scientist monitor eruptions and study them , it 's pretty common to discover the new formations rather quickly . Similarly a few years ago , a <URL> ( although technically more of a ' raft ' of pumice ) after some eruptions and earthquakes . So , short answer - it 's possible , but unlikely for old ones to exist , and while new ones are created occasionally , we usually find them pretty fast . Of course , this does n't mean we 've explored them , just photographed/mapped them .
Europe has literally thousands of ski resorts . So I 'll focus on the Alps . There I can recommend you two small ski resorts that are well suited for beginners . There are various reasons for this . Small ski resorts are generally cheaper . So you do n't have to spend a lot of money for runs you wo n't ever use because they 're too step . Additionally , small resorts are often less crowded . This seems contra-intuitive , but it is generally true , because all people aim to go for big resorts . And third , small ski resorts tend to have less uphill sections because they are not so widespread and that 's why they do n't have long connection passages . In Austria I would recommend <URL> . There are both drag lifts and chair lifts , but you can easily avoid the drag lifts . As far as I remember there are n't any uphill sections at all . Just two small ones before restaurants . But you can avoid that as well if you want ;) The second small ski resort I can recommend is <URL> in Liechtenstein . There is only 1 drag lift and 2 chair lifts . There are no uphill sections at all and the prices are relatively cheap compared to the neighboring countries . The runs are generally very wide and if you go there on a weekday in the morning you 're literally alone there ;) Additionally one of the chair lift is very modern . You can pull down a cover if its very winding or you 're freezing and the chairs are heated .
This is possible . It is an economical way of accommodation in Croatia . In tourist areas , it is not difficult to find a room ( " Sobe " in Croatian ) , even during the high season . Landlords await tourists at the arrival of the boat or the bus . You can also go to the local tourist office . They can help you in finding a room . It is possible to find rooms in the price range you mention . Sometimes you can get a discount if you stay more than one or two nights . Moreover , during the high season some landlords are reluctant to rent a room for only one night . Note that there are some " informal " landlords , i.e. not every landlord is running an officially declared business . But that must not be an issue . I guess this is the same in Greece . It is a good idea to visit a room before accepting . That can help to avoid bad surprises .
The answer is ' it depends ' - on the type of smoke detector an how close the smoker is to the alarm , how much vapor is produced etc. . For the optical sensor type firealarms <URL> - while <URL> . I.e. depends on how much vapor you have and how often it is blown into the detector . That said , it seems quite unlikely such a sensor would be triggered by vapor in normal circumstances - but as you mention in comments , sitting on top of a bunk bed , with a low ceiling may be a different matter . More modern sensors based on ionization/CO detection should not be triggered by vapor , <URL> .
The <URL> site refers visa applications to the <URL> . According to this site , they have locations in London , Manchester , Stockholm , Gothenburg , Copenhagen , The Hague , Brussels , Paris , Marseilles , Milan , Rome and Madrid . The terms of their online application state that applicants must be a citizen or resident of the country where the application is made . ordinary passport holders who are UK citizens and citizens of other countries possessing UK permanent residence or work permits However , you may be able to make an application in person at one of these locations or at a Chinese embassy or consulate in Europe . As <URL> have reported success doing this . At the consulate in Goteborg , Sweden all we had tp produce were our passports , the completed application form with the passport sized pics and the money for the visa . In fact it all went very smoothly .
Wikipedia explains that <URL> , specifically on the islands of Faial , Terceira , São Miguel and Pico is the place to go for Whale Watching . <URL> backs this up , narrowing it to focus on Faial or Pico . This matches the various Azores tourism sites , so I 'd definitely target those two , and it sounds like if you like the outdoors , Pico would be the place to go for some hiking as well .
Yes , website that reference those codes do exist . CouponsHelper is an example . Better than referring to a website , I suggest installing the <URL> if you use Firefox as your web browser . Basically , every time you come across a website that has coupon number entry , a prompt appears on the top of the browser with known working coupon numbers for that website . It works with various retailers , including travel-related services . For instance , codes are suggested when booking a ticket on the French railways website .
The thing with climate and weather is that you can never be totally certain . <URL> , with it really only being ' damp ' and rain in the afternoon and evening , and that January ' the weather was sweet ' . <URL> . So it 's literally going to come down to when the rain arrives . Sometimes , like all of sub-tropical Africa , it comes early , sometimes it comes late . ( source : lived in South Africa for 13 years ) . Generally , the rains as the first guy mentioned do tend to be later in the afternoon . It 's quite crazy - the humidity builds to an almost oppressive level , and you can feel the rain coming , and then - STORMS ! :) Quite fun , but be prepared for sudden and unexpected soakings .
In case of emergency ( which is more likely during take offs and landings ) people should be prepared just in case . So during daytime , opening window shades and putting cabin lights to full makes the eyes used to sunlight so if something goes wrong and passengers need to be evacuated there will not be sudden change in light contrast which might lead to temporary blurred vision . Same thing at night flights , window shades are open and cabin lights are dimmed .
For UK based routes ( this is where I think you are , judging by your profile ) you can use <URL> . It 's also available as an app on most phone platforms ( Apple , Android , Windows Phone ) . Input your start and end points then when you get a route select the " Quietest Route " tab . That should give you either cycle paths or quieter roads .
I phoned TfL to find the answer to this . It 's simple and straightforward : The rate depends on when you touch in . Peak fares apply from 06:30 to 09:29 and from 16:00 to 18:59 Monday to Friday ( excluding public holidays ) . Off-peak fares apply at all other times . That is , if you touch in during those two three-hour periods , you will be charged the peak fare . If your journey starts in off-peak time but strays into the peak period , it 's still an off-peak fare .
Sevilla should be very nice , and you can organize a trip to Cordoba and/or Granada if you wish . Note that if you want to see Alhambra in Granada you should really book tickets over Internet more than a month before travel .
Ok , I was in Cairo in 2007 . With the tensions some may have changed , but here are my suggestions : Alexandria - it 's only a few hours away , and there are connections to get there ( my tour company just offered a day trip before the tour started ) . It was fantastic and I 'm so glad I got to it - the new Great Library is cool , lots of old monuments and Egyptian heritage around , and the seafood was so good ! the churches - there are a variety of historical churches . This is important because as Egypt is now 97 % Muslim , it 's important to realise that this was n't always the case . There are three main ones I 'd recommend - the Coptic Church , the ' Hanging Church ' which is something to be seen to understand and is also allegedly where the Holy Family stayed at one point , and of course , the Citadel and Mosque of Mohamed Ali Pasha up above Cairo for a spectacular view , although quite smog filled . Obviously , the pyramids and Sphinx in Giza . Easy to get to , and yes , you 've seen them a thousand times in pictures , but nothing beats seeing them in person . And it blew my mind that you were actually able to enter one - made my day ! Not good if you 're claustrophobic though . Egyptian Museum - I was shocked that I actually had to argue with my group to extend a 30 min visit to 45 minutes for this . Fortunately we had a rest day when we came back through Cairo , so I was able to spend most of a day here - it 's spectacular , an absolute gem if you like your history , and even if you do n't - the Mummy Room - with kings and queens of past - it 's incredible that you can be so close to royalty in that way ( if a little weird ) . There are obviously lots of local attractions like the Nile felluca rides , sheesha , and the Cairo Tower , but I 'm trying to write about trips that take a good part of a day , if not all of it . I hope that helps .
First of all , you must be prepared to such trip - it is 4 days long from Moscow to Mongolia ( with changes ) , and you should get some stuff like electronic books or films . Also you should think about possibilities of recharging your electronical devices - charges are available not in all trains and not at each stations . After those choices , I recommend you to decide what class you will travel : High class ( ' Spalniy ' in Russian ) 1st class ( ' Kupe ' in Russian ) 2d class ( ' Platzkart ' in Russian ) High class is very expensive ( about $ 700 ) , with high quality service . In railroad car you travel in rooms for only two persons . It is very comfortable , calm and quiet place . 1st class is much cheaper ( about $ 250 ) , rooms are for 4 persons , and many services are not free . This variant is also comfortable , and here you can make a good trip . 2d class is cheapest ( $ 150 ) and crowded . Rooms in railroad car are not closing , and on other side additional places are situated . This type of travel is noisy , but if you are searching some kind of communication , you should go here . From weather point of view , a definitely not recommend you to travel at the middle of the summer ( from June , 20 to the July , 20 ) - this is very hot time of the year , and not every railroad car provides possibilities to get fresh air ( even in High class ) . Also you should not travel at the middle of the winter ( in December and January ) - this is very cold time of the year , days are short , and you will not get any joy from travel . Also , you should check the number of room when you get a ticket - some of them ( this is depend on train types and class you 've selected ) have no way to open a window and refresh to room ( because there are emergency exits there ) . Try to get cheapest tickets by <URL> ( sorry , only in Russian - generaly it is March , April and October months ) and avoid public holidays ( May , 1st and May , 9th , for example )
There are two options for ferries from Dubrovnik to Korčula : You probably have found the time table from Jadrolinija . You are right that they currently do n't run their ferry off-season , but only until end of September . But even until end of September , the ferry runs only twice a week , on Thursday and Sunday . October 1st is a Wednesday . The second ferry option is Krilo , which operates a high-speed catamaran from Dubrovnik to Korčula until October 18th , but also only twice a week on Tuesday and Thursday . If you arrive in Dubrovnik on Wednesday , you would have to stay a night there and take the catamaran departing 16:30 on Thursday and arriving in Korčula 18:25 . When do you arrive in Dubrovnik ? Since the bus from Dubrovnik to Korčula also only runs once a day ( 15:00 ) , there seem to be no possible way to get to Korčula with public transport if you arrive later . The bus takes 3h 15m . You can also go by bus from Dubrovnik to Orebic ( daily at 14:15 except Sundays and public holidays , arrival 16:15 ) and take one of the frequent ferries from Orebic to Korčula .
end question
start question
Over the counter pain killers in SE Asia ?
Diclofenac appears to be available at <URL> ( a large local pharmacy chain in both countries ) , gabapentin ( Neurontin ) appears to be prescription only per a search on the <URL> . Note that a prescription obtained overseas will not be accepted by a Singaporean or Malaysian pharmacy . However , you can bring that prescription to a local doctor ( general practitioner , " GP " ) , who will happily issue you a local one , or even dispense on the spot if they have it available . Most local GPs in Singapore accept walk-in patients , no reservation needed , and the cost of a consultation is ridiculously low by US standards ( $ 20-ish ) . Malaysia will be even cheaper . Also , do not bring Tramadol or any other opioid pain medication in Singapore or Malaysia if you can help it , they 're considered narcotics and the penalties if caught are extreme . If you must , Singapore has a <URL> that you 'll need to kick off well in advance of your visit .
If you know something about the history of <URL> a " <URL> " day may be the most suitable for a visit there . Note that the topography makes the climate relatively changeable ( specially on the East coast , where four seasons in one day is not unusual ) . It snowed in Aberdeen quite heavily in July ( mid summer ! ) yet within 48 hours Aberdeen was showing as the hottest city in Europe -- with a higher average temperature that day greater than Nicosia . Your tastes seem eclectic so it should not take much juggling to plan to be indoors ( say a distillery ) during the worst weather and outdoors during the best . It is possible you will face travel delays due to bad weather but you 'd have to be extremely unlucky for that to last throughout the length of stay you seem to have in mind . Though miserably rainy I 'm afraid could blight you trip -- the Scots themselves are so used to that they barely notice but I admit it could be depressing for a visitor used to continuous sunshine . There are though advantages for you . Others do avoid the winter months , so you wo n't be tripping over so many other tourists -- and if visiting to West Coast you would be past the season for <URL> . The astounding beauty , of which solitude seems to form part , of the glens is tarnished ( in my view ! ) when tour buses of noisy visitors are in earshot ! On the other hand I fear you will be out of luck with the <URL> " It has been operating under various names and with different operators every summer since 1984 . " ( though ' Summer ' this year stretches through to October 24th ) . There are however other steam engine services , for example <URL> and that does run in December .
Well <URL> , and found : <URL> Which has beds for US$ 1 per night . To quote : But , there 's a catch ... The $ 1 dorm beds are in a thatched-roof hut that is partially open to the elements . It appears that you do get a mattress , pillow , towel , and even a mosquito net , but that 's it . There 's also no proper locker system out there so you have to leave your valuables at reception when you are away . Nighttime average low temperatures are steady , ranging from 79F/26C in March to 68F/20C in January , and it 's always humid , so it might not be too comfortable on the warmest nights , but at least you 'll never be cold . Also , the dorm beds are right next to the kitchen , so you need to be prepared for some noise and smells while you are saving all that money . On the other hand , the Garden Village offers : So you really do get most of the normal benefits of staying at a hostel , even for this ridiculously low price . Want something better , Mr. Moneybags ? If you can afford US$ 6 per night you can get a " standard single " room of your own , ranging up to a " deluxe triple " room for US$ 13 . You ca n't book the $ 1 dorms online , but you can book all the other private rooms from their website . I 'm told you can reserve the $ 1 dorms by emailing them , so you wo n't have to just roll the dice and hope one is open . Lest you think the Garden Village is just trying to get people stuck in some remote place to sell them food and drinks , it is actually very well located , only a few blocks from Pub Street and the main tourist district of Siem Reap . Also , they have a good and cheap restaurant , plus 50-cent Angkor draft beers available all day at their sunset rooftop terrace .
According to the article in the <URL> it is possible as long as she 's in a female only area and hence you ca n't be with her . This information obviously is a little dated but the only area that is known for laxer regulations would be the island of <URL> but that information is even more dated . The most recent English news I was able to find is an <URL> so legally it is highly unlikely that regulations enforced for hijab would be laxer for bikinis .
It is available in India , and in Delhi in the North , but the supply may not be reliable . As the US <URL> notes : India has the highest burden of rabies in the world , with estimates of 15,000 -- 20,000 human cases per year . Dogs roam in packs in many areas of the country . Unfortunately , human rabies immune globulin is not readily available , except in some clinics in major cities . Information about such clinics can be obtained from the website of the <URL> . Otherwise , if a traveler has not received preexposure rabies vaccination , a bite may result in having to leave the country for postexposure prophylaxis . Even so , a preexposure series is not recommended for all travelers to India . Cost is a consideration for many . Long-term travelers , expatriates , missionaries , and volunteers may want to obtain preexposure immunization for themselves and their children . Travelers may want to purchase a medical evacuation insurance policy that will cover travel for recommended rabies postexposure prophylaxis .
I know somebody in a similar situation to you : she lived illegally in the US for some years , and many years later she wanted to return as a tourist . Although she would otherwise have been eligible for the Visa Waiver Program , her local US Consulate recommended that she apply for a visa because of her history . She got a visa and visited the US without any problems . When applying for the visa you will be asked whether you have ever overstayed in the past ; you can answer yes to this and still get a visa , but if you lie and get found out you almost certainly wo n't .
Living ( and traveling ) in the US , I have never in a decade encountered any bed bugs . Maybe if you stay in the hourly-hotels class , I would n't know , but even the cheapest chain hotels can not afford this to happen . I think it 's mostly a hype and not a serious problem at all .
Johannesburg 's main airport is ' ORT ' , <URL> . The IATA code for ORT is JNB . Jo ' burg 's secondary airport is <URL> . Apparently , it 's calling itself ' international ' , but I 'm not quite sure there are actually international flights coming or going here . It is used by two budget carriers , though . Between the two , there is no real alternative when coming from abroad . You will arrive at ORT . I 've flown a dozen times or more to ORT and would say it 's safe . Beware of taxi drivers , though . They are , like perhaps everywhere else , notorious for trying to pull a fast one . Depending on where you need to go , your best bet is probably to take the <URL> to either Johannesburg or Pretoria .
The astronomical spring ( Northern Hemisphere ) 2014 begins on March 20 and ends on June 20 , that includes USA .
None . I have visited all those countries and I was n't asked about insurance by any country ( we have free medical care back in my home country but I think that 's irrelevant ) . A note about your credit card 's insurance : if you plan to use it , just make sure you are eligible for it before leaving the country . In most cases , you have to buy the ticket using that particular card and/or have spent a minimum amount using that card . I tried to make a claim a few months back . It did n't really went good .
Right now I am in a restaurant with a cycle-rickshaw driver from Varanasi so here are the answers to your questions . Beside this driver , these are my experiences as well as I was there a few weeks ago . There are only two cremation ( burning ) ghats in Varanasi , a big one - Manikarnika , and a smaller one - Harishchandra . ( A bit of trivia - location of body burning depends on the location of the body , it is carried to a closer one . ) Bodies are being carried through Varanasi streets with body carriers ( ca n't remember what they are called right now ) chanting along the way . There are common routes but that also depends on the starting location of the deceased . You can completely avoid this procession by not leaving your hotel at all ( since the burning is being preformed 24 hours a day ) . I do n't really know what you mean by purest ghat but if you mean something like - which has the least dirt or garbage , I would say it depends on the time of the day but if I had to choose one , I 'd pick Assi ghat , the southernmost one . This is also an area with pretty expensive and posh hotels ( except for a few ) . If you meant to ask where the water is purest , there is a simple answer to that one - it 's the same river so the water is exactly the same everywhere in Varanasi and your parents will be having a holy dip in a holy river wherever they decide to do it . Mind you , riverbed is full of sunken bodies that are put there after the burning is over . The most busy ghat is Lalita , where there are people praying and bathing in the morning and praying and lighting floating candles with flowers in the evening . Unfortunately for you , it is a ghat that is very near to the main burning ghat .
Here is how it is supposed work : in the station ( Hong Kong or Kowloon ) you go through a turnstile . The turnstile has an RF card reader which can read ( and invalidate ) the ticket . Typically you need to swipe the ticket over the reading area next to the turnstile but if you are lucky the reader may still see it if it 's just in your hand . After it 's read , the turnstile will unlock and you can go through . At this point the ticket is invalidated ( or one trip subtracted ) . You are supposed to keep the ticket since it 's also your receipt . So if you went through a turnstile , your ticket got read and invalidated . If not , you got lucky and have a spare ticket . Same story as if the conductor on the train forgot to punch your ticket . It 's not your fault .
As a cyclist both recreationally and professionally , I have found Thai drivers quite willing to share the road with bicycles . Granted Bangkok and Patong ( on Phuket ) are not bike friendly , but most of the rest of the country is . While dedicated bike paths are not common , they are slowly starting to appear in areas around the country . Your referenced article in the Bangkok Post was obviously written by a car commuter not a cyclist , picking on small issues ignoring the fact that the bulk of that 184 kms will be great riding . But one big thing is , that as a foreigner , you have to learn to go with the local flow , you ca n't expect the same conditions as in a bike friendly country like the Netherlands or Denmark . There is a lot of give and take , the concept of " I HAVE the right of way " becomes more " can I go first " . Similar driving attitudes prevail in other central SE Asian countries ( Laos , Cambodia , Myanmar ) . Vietnam unfortunately inherited the aggressive Chinese driving style . Finally a rant ... sidewalks are NOT bike paths unless specifically marked as such . Bikes are vehicles by law in most every country of the world and as such are required to use the roadways unless a specifically designated off road bike path is present . The existence of a ramp at the curb does not equate to that sidewalk being a bike path . That ramp is there for handicap access .
<URL> shows that SCAT Airlines flies from MCX to Aktau , Kazakhstan , which technically is in Asia ( despite being only 300 km away , it 's on the other side of the Caspian Sea ) . These flights did n't seem to show up on Kayak , but it may be that SCAT does n't sell tickets through Kayak . All the other flights listed are within Russia .
The Faroe Islands are <URL> ( albeit self-governing ) . <URL> , it 's legal to hitch in Denmark , apart from on motorways : Destination boards are recommended . For safety reasons , it is illegal to hitchhike on the expressways , so it is better to use the on ramps and service areas . When crossing by ferry , try to get into a car that already paid for the ticket . This is backed up in <URL> which states that it 's generally rare , but easy , legal and you 're not usually expected to pay for the ride .
Diclofenac appears to be available at <URL> ( a large local pharmacy chain in both countries ) , gabapentin ( Neurontin ) appears to be prescription only per a search on the <URL> . Note that a prescription obtained overseas will not be accepted by a Singaporean or Malaysian pharmacy . However , you can bring that prescription to a local doctor ( general practitioner , " GP " ) , who will happily issue you a local one , or even dispense on the spot if they have it available . Most local GPs in Singapore accept walk-in patients , no reservation needed , and the cost of a consultation is ridiculously low by US standards ( $ 20-ish ) . Malaysia will be even cheaper . Also , do not bring Tramadol or any other opioid pain medication in Singapore or Malaysia if you can help it , they 're considered narcotics and the penalties if caught are extreme . If you must , Singapore has a <URL> that you 'll need to kick off well in advance of your visit .
The behavior and acceptance of this behavior generally differs . Kissing someone on the cheek is generally considered to be a great degree of familiarity with the person you 're doing this with . So here goes : In the business setting I 've only seen this done by French or Canadian ( Quebec ) expats . Between friends it is acceptable but again only if you know the person you 're kissing . When it comes to business environment you kissing a woman as a matter of greeting technically can cost you dearly since it might be spun as sexual harassment and you 're likely to be fired on the spot but this is a discussion for <URL> site . Between friends : Almost anything goes but you have to look at it based upon the situation .
Certainly . Qantas flies them from Australia . <URL> They 're infrequent , but a few a year do fly down . I watched a documentary on it , it 's crazy that you can pay less for an ' inner ' seat where you do n't even get to see out the window without craning your neck ! From the site : The flight provides a full day of Antarctic experience . Our flight from Australia ranges between 9,500 -- 10,500 kms roundtrip ( approximately 12.5 hours ) depending on your departure city . Expert Antarctic expeditioners are onboard to talk on the polar environment and its history while video screenings depict life on the ground . Approximately three hours south of Australia , passengers will usually see the first scattered ice followed by dozens of icebergs and ice floes . We then cross the South Magnetic Pole where you will start to view the rugged mountainous topography of the Antarctic mainland .
Yes . Emirates offers nonstop flights from Dubai ( which is on the continent of Asia ) to both Rio de Janeiro ( GIG ) and S & atilde ; o Paulo ( GRU ) . Qatar Airways has nonstop service from Doha to S & atilde ; o Paulo . Near-misses : Etihad has <URL> that it will fly from Abu Dhabi to S & atilde ; o Paulo starting in June 2013 . Turkish Airlines flies from S & atilde ; o Paulo to Istanbul , whose airport is in Europe but is only 16 km from the Asia side of the Bosporus . These appear to be the only nonstop Asia flights . <URL> shows flights from S & atilde ; o Paulo to Seoul ( Korean Air ) and Singapore ( Singapore Airlines ) , but they have stops in Los Angeles and Barcelona respectively .
Recently while planning my trip to Cambodia , Laos and Vietnam , I did a little research : I am not sure about direct buses from Siem Reap . However , Stueng Traeng is about 5 hours . From there , you can get a mini bus connection to Pakse . This takes about another 5 hours . From Pakse it is an overnight sleeper to Vientiane . If you have time , it is advisable to stop over either at ST or take a slight detour to Kratie . Stay overnight here , and then get a bus to Pakse ( an extra 2 hours ) . I also stumbled upon this website : <URL> , could be useful you , though the buses seem to start from Phnom Penh . You might be able to get more information from them . Another post I saw was about this couple who did a trip to Vientiane from Siem Reap via Thailand : <URL> . I finally dropped Laos from my itinerary , so can not advice you from personal experience though .
end question
start question
Traveling to UK ( London ) in July , how to find cheap accomodation ?
You need the Youth Hostel Association : <URL> Central London beds from # 15/person/night - not quite as cheap as you asked for but probably one of the cheapest you 're likely to get , short of a tent or a homeless shelter . Actually , looking on Airbnb there are a couple of places offering beds for as low as # 7 , and a couple of them are in what I 'd consider central London . Use the price filter to find them , and I suspect you 'll need to book way ahead of time . <URL> Update : I 'm looking at Airbnb again later the same day and the central London places I saw offering beds for for # 7 are no longer showing as listed - perhaps because they 're all booked up ? I do n't know . There 's still a few places showing at that price in outer London - but I guess the moral is that it 's worth checking airbnb more than once because places go in and out of availability , even if you 're not searching for specific dates .
Summary : I think your best bet is to look up the price for a slightly shortened trip on <URL> , from the first train 's first stop to the last train 's next-to-last stop . You can find non-TGV prices on Rail Europe as well . I just went to <URL> , entered Paris to Grenoble and clicked on " check fares " . As you can see , the cheapest fare if you book now is slightly cheaper than the TER fare ( which you can get on an open ticket , but only at a station , not online ) . However , I do n't know how reliable this far is , especially since I did n't even manage to display it in EUR . Rail Europe tends to have a markup ; I 'm not sure if this markup is consistent between modes . On <URL> , there indeed seems to be no way to select only trains without compulsory booking ( TER and Intercités , not Teoz ) . The <URL> website does n't have rates , but anyway there are n't any Intercités involved in a trip between Paris and Grenoble , only TGV or TER . You can look up the price of TER on each regional website , accessed from the <URL> . It takes a lot of clicks and it 's in French . Eventually you might be able to find prices for each leg of your journey ( I 'm not even sure of that , for trains that cross several regions there may be cases where you ca n't know the price for a span that crosses a region border ) . Rates are degressive , so the price from your origin to your destination will be slightly less than the sum of the prices of each leg . You may be able to get a rough idea of prices if you split your journey into several legs for which TGV does n't make sense . For example , you can see from the schedules on the DB website that the first stop after Paris on the Paris to Grenoble by TER trip is Sens , and the last stop before Grenoble is Voiron ; if you ask Voyages-SNCF to go from Sens to Voiron , you 'll get prices for the TER-only trip . Rates are degressive , so the price for Paris to Grenoble will be only a little more . Sorry for the suckiness of SNCF 's web sites , it 's very well-known in France . Your best bet to find prices is at a station . Ask an employee , as the machines are n't always able to find trip possibilities that are n't the fastest . In any case , for a trip where you do n't book in advance , you 'll often have to buy your ticket at the station .
Without any research I would say the tube is the cheapest and fastest as well , because you do n't have to change at all to get to Knightsbridge . The <URL> says the journey is 42 minutes . The <URL> train , may take you faster into central London , but you have to change into the tube ( District or Circle lines ) at Paddington and then change again into the Picadilly line . That will take much longer . There used to be a bus called they ' AIRBUS ' going from Central London to Heathrow but it was discontinued in 2004 . Taxis and shuttle buses may be faster than the tube if there is very light traffic , which is not likely . They are surely more expensive . Taking normal buses is possible , but you have to change at least twice and the journey takes at least two hours . It is the cheapest at # 2.30 , the tube is # 5.30 ( cash prices without an Oyster card ) . On the <URL> site , use advanced options , to specify that you do n't want to use the tube and it shows you bus connections .
I would try the <URL> in Shinjuku . In addition to kimonos they offer used books , hanging scroll art , prints , and accessories . Like anything secondhand it can be hit-or miss on what is available when you are there . Alternatively if you are willing to travel a bit ( 4.5 hours ) the <URL> is one of the best places to buy a genuine secondhand kimono in Japan . To get an idea of what to expect they have a really good <URL> that you can browse . Hanazono Shrine Antique Market Schedule Every Sun ( Closed on Shrine activity days and rainy days ) Open hours : Sunrise - sunset Address : Hanazono-jinja shrine grounds , 5-17-3 Shinjuku Shinjuku-ku
There are actually many cheaper options in Probolinggo than the ones visible on internet or in lonely planet Indonesia ( edition 2013 ) . I stayed in a guesthouse for 80 ' 000 IDR per night , for a double bedroom with shower ( cold water only ) . It was clean , not far from the train station , and staff was nice . The guesthouse is called " female guesthouse " , although I 'm a male , this name made no difference . Note that I went with my girlfriend . Tampiarto hotel has double bedrooms with AC for 195 ' 000 IDR . <URL> . <URL> . Hostel Dharma has double rooms without AC for 75 ' 000 IDR , &amp; with AC for 125 ' 000 IDR . <URL> . I also found another few places with higher standards ( i.e. With swimming pool for around 200 ' 000 IDR ) . Please find below a picture of a flyer from 2015 with different hotels and the relevant prices , address , phone number , and so on . For further info , contact the tourism information office in Probolinggo , they were very helpful when I got in touch with them .
All Eurostar services are subject to Juxtaposed border controls . That means you clear the UK border somewhere on the Continent ( generally in France , except for Brussels where it 's in Belgium ) , and hence you also exit Schengen there too . Depending on the station , after Eurostar checkin you either do security first then France/Belgium exit then UK entry , or France/Belgium exit then UK entry then security . Because of this , only stations that are fully setup with local and UK border staff on hand + appropriate facilities + segregated platforms can act as the " final " departure station for a Eurostar train . Pretty much , that means the " initial " set of Eurostar stations . That covers the " normal " ones of Calais / Lille / Paris / Brussels , plus the " special " ones running from the beginning of Disneyland Resort ( Marne-la-Vallée / Chessy ) and 2 of the Ski stations ( Bourg St Maurice / Moutiers ) . There is a full border screening area on arrival in the UK at St Pancras . However , it 's not normally in use , and you just walk through it before you walk through customs . Very very occasionally , it 's in use , and you have to re-clear UK immigration on arrival in St Pancras , showing them your passport and often your ticket too . I 'm told that this tends to only happen when the police or border staff decide they want to speak with someone between the time they cleared the Juxtaposed border and arrival into London . I 'd say I 've had it maybe 1 in every 20 trips . For all other Eurostar services , such as the new one serving Lyon and Marseille , there is n't the secure platform nor the border staff nor the space for immigration . So , for these trains , they stop them at Lille + get everyone off + get them through security + immigration in Lille , before re-boarding and carrying on to the UK . This takes about an hour , but does mean there 's no 30 minute checkin time before leaving France . . There is one special other case which I think might be confusing you - Eurostar sell through tickets including a French TGV connection to a range of French stations , including some that they also run their own trains to . With those , coming back , you take a regular French TGV as far as Paris or Lille , then go through the normal Eurostar checking + immigration + security there before boarding your Eurostar . Eurostar run only 3-5 direct trains per week to Disneyland Resort / Marne-la-Vallée , number depending on season and demand . At all other times , if you ask Eurostar to sell you a ticket to Marne-la-Vallée , they 'll actually sell you a return to Lille plus TGV tickets to/from Lille to Marne-la-Vallée . If you book one of those services , then you wo n't be on a Eurostar all the way to Disney , and you 'll do immigration + security when you change from TGV to Eurostar in Lille . . Otherwise , handy quick test for your journey : If the journey has no changes and the duration is about the same ( + -10 minutes ) for the UK-Continent and Continent-UK directions , you 'll do security + immigration at your starting station in France/Belgium If the journey has connections ( eg London to Lille , Lille to Marne-la-Vallée ) , you 'll do security + immigration after your TGV leg but before your Eurostar leg on the way back If the journey has no changes but the return duration is about an hour longer on the return ( eg London-Lyon in 4 hours 40 , Lyon-London in 5 hours 45 ) , you 'll be kicked off your Eurostar partway through the journey in Lille , to go through security + immigration in Lille
Update , 2/27/15 : In approximately 7 days from the writing of this edit , it is possible ( Likely , in the opinion of this author ) , that <URL> . While similar to the shutdown that occurred in 2013 , this current budgetary impasse does not apply to most government agencies . Parks , museums , etc. , should continue to operate as usual . The only government workers affected by this shutdown are DHS staff , such as Customs and Border Protection , TSA , and Immigration and Nationalization employees . Most of these employees are considered ' essential ' , and will thus be required to report to work , even in the event of a shutdown , but they will be working without pay . Expect them to be grumpy , and cut them a little slack . They may also be shorthanded , or short on supplies , as their funding has been abruptly severed . Document processing , and other services that go through an office will probably severely delayed , if not completely halted for the duration . Again , this should not affect any national parks , museums , or tourism sites , and the FAA/Air Traffic Control are similarly unaffected . Expect delays when dealing with security , customs , and border crossings however . You should n't notice much impact on the actual getting around part of travel . Public transport , as well as things like highway maintenance and management are all done at the state level , and are unaffected by short term federal government shutdowns . Similarly , the TSA , FAA , and Border Patrol are all continuing to operate , with their employees being paid on the resumption of government activity . AMTRAK is a privately owned enterprise ; while they receive federal subsidies , they should be able to continue operating at full capacity for the foreseeable future . Where you will notice a lack of activity is in trying to use other government services . As a traveller , the primary impact you 'll see here is , of course the National Parks Service . This means parks and various monuments and historic sites are closed . This includes the Smithsonian museums in Washington , DC . Do keep in mind however , that much of the nations parkland , as well as many historic sites and monuments and museums are not federally maintained or operated , and at those facilities , it should be business as usual . <URL> , it wo n't be completely shut down . For the most part , as a visitor , you should n't notice much impact from the shutdown . If it drags out for more than a few weeks , the lack of available funds could cause larger issues , but for now , as a foreigner , you can safely not worry about it . ( N.B. Because of its peculiar governmental status , visitors to Washington D.C. specifically might experience a larger impact than visitors to other cities . In particular , most sites of tourist interest in DC are federally operated and will be closed . YMMV . ) For further details , <URL>
The weather in south it is often wet and windy , the north slightly less so , but can get some nasty cold spells , although it should n't be too extreme in July . For going high up in the mountains or travelling in the mid-interior you would need of course to be prepared for much lower temperatures and sometimes extreme weather . The main thing to think about is to have protection against wind and rain . So in order to avoid unpleasant experiences , I would suggest you bring at least the following items : A good wind and rain proof jacket with a hood A warm sweater ( which you can remove when temperatures are higher ) Pants with some wind and rain protection Strong hiking boots . They are essential for hiking as the rough terrain ( sharp rocks , lava ) you might encounter can otherwise quickly destroy your footwear Depending on your comfort level a pair of gloves and a hat might also come in handy if the temperatures get very low . You should be aware that the weather can fluctuate a lot in iceland , even in the same day . Another thing to keep in mind is that if there is direct sunlight and it is not windy it can feel much warmer than you would expect for the temperature . There might very well be times when you could get by with very light clothing .
Short Answer If you are a non-professional diver , the certification has no expiration date . You can dive all over the world without the need to be affiliated to any club or to have an insurance . However , if you are a frequent diver , you may want to have a non-professional insurance . This will cover the majority of risks and will also avoid you to pay one-time insurances in those dive centers where it is a requirement by local policy . My suggestion is to have a look at <URL> . The insurance does not require you to be affiliated to any club . You can purchase it directly on the website . Long Answer You should separate scuba diving license from insurance coverage . Generally speaking , non-professional scuba diving licenses do n't have an expiration . Once you are certified , you 're a diver . The only exceptions are the BLS qualification ( for example PADI/EFR , which anyway is a non-scuba diving qualification ) and professional levels . For example , I 'm a PADI instructor and I 'm required to renew my PADI affiliation every year . But the price I pay is because I 'm a PADI member and this is part of the PADI membership agreement . If I do n't renew it I 'm still a diver , a non-professional diver . My students , once they are certified , are not required to renew the certification . As far as I know , it works the same for CMAS . I did n't find any information on CMAS website , but <URL> seems to confirm that the certificate expiration exists only for professional levels ( such as instructors ) . The insurance is a different story . The insurance should be renewed periodically , in general every year . It 's important to know that , in general , you do n't need an insurance to dive . In some countries the insurance is required for professional levels ( such Europe , but not Indonesia ) , in a few countries or dive centers the insurance is required to dive but this is a local policy . If you are a frequent diver , my suggestion is to have a non-professional insurance . This will cover the majority of risks and will also avoid you to pay one-time insurances in those dive centers where it is a requirement by local policy . <URL> is by far one of the most used ( if not the most ) insurances . Depending on where you live , they have both trip or annual insurances . This is the case of US , in Europe they only provide annual insurance .
Let 's assume that " London " is any major mainline station - they 're all reasonably central and well-connected for onward journeys - and that you 're only interested in rail not buses or taxis . All but one ( Luton ) have a station connected directly to the airport , though getting out of the terminal and to the station is quicker for some than for others . I have n't counted travel time to get to the airport station for any of them except Luton . All fares are single and assume no railcards , offers , etc. . Unless clearly stated , no change of transport en route . Trains per hour are during the day on a weekday . Gatwick Gatwick Express to Victoria . 30 minutes . # 19.90 single . Four trains per hour . Local train to Victoria . 35-40 minutes . # 15.40 single . Around five trains per hour . Local train to London Bridge . 35-55 minutes . # 9 single . Four trains per hour . Local train to St. Pancras . 55-70 minutes . # 10 single . Four trains per hour . There are also direct rail connections to Bedford , Luton , St. Albans , Brighton , Eastbourne , &amp; Portsmouth . Through train to Luton Airport Parkway . Luton Local train to St. Pancras . 25-45 minutes , plus 10 minute bus ride to the station from the airport . # 14 single plus bus ticket ( # 2 single ) . About seven trains per hour ( varies ) . There are also direct rail connections to Leicester , Nottingham , Bedford , Luton , St. Albans , and even Brighton . Through train to Gatwick . City Docklands Light Railway . No direct connection to a mainline station but 20 minutes to Bank ( equally central ) or go to Canning Town and then change to the Jubilee Line to London Bridge ( 22m ) or Waterloo ( 25m ) . Single fare is # 4.90 cash , # 3.30 Oyster ( peak ) , # 2.80 Oyster ( off-peak ) . Frequent service . If you are heading out of London to the east , you can also take the DLR to Stratford ( for Essex ) or Stratford International ( for Kent ) Heathrow Piccadilly Line tube to King 's Cross . ~ 1 hour , or a little less to somewhere like Piccadilly Circus - this is one of the few to go across London so you can get off in the middle ! Single fare is # 6 cash , # 5.10 Oyster ( peak ) , # 3.10 Oyster ( off-peak ) . Six trains per hour ( T4 &amp; T5 ) , or twelve trains per hour ( T2/3 ) Heathrow Connect to Paddington . 25-35 minutes , # 10.20 single . Two trains per hour . Heathrow Express to Paddington . 15-20 minutes ( depending on terminal ) , # 22 single . Four trains per hour . Southend Local train to Liverpool Street . ~ 55 minutes . # 16.80 single ( # 15.80 off-peak ) . Three trains per hour , one per hour on Sundays . Stansted Stansted Express to Liverpool Street . 45-55 minutes . # 19 single . Four trains per hour . Direct connections to Cambridge , Peterborough , Leicester , and ( believe it or not ) Birmingham . City is of course the clear winner on both price and time , but some others are better than I expected ...
Even if many countries switched to ( which is apparently recommended by the <URL> ) in the last decades , the <URL> . Traditionally , business numbers were written as and it was up to the caller to substitute the right call prefix . Fortunately , modern mobile phones now take care of this for you . So you should be able to use the full number with directly in your contact list and let the phone handle those numbers correctly wherever you are . I always record all numbers that way , with country code and area prefix included - including local numbers and other numbers in my current country of residence - and never had any trouble - whether difficulties reaching a specific number or unexpected charges . I even moved to another country with my whole contact list without needing to update anything to use my new number/SIM card . Note that I did not personally test this solution in either Canada or Ecuador .
Some things do have a kind of break during the summer ( one that comes to mind are the opera houses but is n't it true of opera houses everywhere ? ) but shops will have normal opening hours . Cafe are definitely open , I do n't think libraries have limited hours , do n't know about co-working spaces . Some offices might be a little less busy but it 's a large city with many tourists so it 's not like it 's closing down in the summer like a ski resort . The crowd might be a bit different but the streets certainly are n't empty . On the other hand , there are a number of summer-only things to enjoy in Berlin : beer gardens , outdoor cinemas , beach bars on the Spree , floating swimming pool , al fresco dining , biking and other activities in the lakes and parks around the city , etc. so it 's definitely worth experiencing in this season as well .
Most tourists are not even looked at for this kind of thing as they have no value to the drug cartels . As always , you just have to be mindful and be safe . For taking the bus , one thing to consider is have a few peso coins handing for the restroom along the way . Also , take some toilet paper with you . As far as smuggling , border control is pretty tight , and getting through with anything smuggled is going to be quite difficult . Most of that stuff happens out in the desert anyway . Enjoy the bus ride , Dallas to Monterrey sounds like a great trip to take .
Final Update 10 April 2015 The government published their <URL> Update 17 March 2015 The Home Secretary confirmed before Parliament earlier today that exit checks would begin 8 April 2015 ... ... but hints at a possible exception for people travelling by coach Yes . The UK Border Force has been under pressure to implement exit checks for a long time , and have publicly targeted April 2015 as the start date ... The Home Office is working closely with key partners on the implementation of Exit Checks in April 2015 . We have looked closely at the best ways to implement Exit Checks for the various ports and operators , working with the grain of their operations as far as possible . Ongoing consultations are helping to ensure that Exit Checks meet the government 's objectives with the least possible impact on travellers . Barry McGill , Director of Exit Checks said : " We have made significant progress on planned solutions with carriers and port operators . The programme is building on this engagement to ensure that the technical delivery arrangements meet everyone 's needs " . Source : <URL> An earlier attempt to implement exit controls resulted in an <URL> from which the Border Force hopes to recover public confidence . For this reason it 's safe to assume they will be looking for a few scalps to show the media . If you are visiting the UK as a tourist or business visitor and think that you have overstayed and thus be vulnerable to being caught at an exit check , you can <URL> to determine if your circumstances were unavoidable . Alternatively , you can contact a <URL> to arrange a consultation .
The best options you have is looking for sail boats requiring a crew . You should be careful with that . Make sure the captain is experienced enough . Cape horn is not known by being easy . But you 're aware of that probably . They will , most likely , be looking for someone with experience as well . Things can go in many ways . It 's not easy to get a good crew sometimes so it 's possible that they do n't ask money . The most usual way , I would say , is food cost sharing . There are several websites / forums where you can search : <URL> <URL> There are also " professional " websites that list ads like : <URL> <URL> Some of them require you to pay a fee to answer the ads Another option is going to a near by marina . There are usually classified ads for several topics , namely crew seek . Depending on where you are it may be easy to find a boat going there . If you are in an area , with mainly local sailors you will hardly find someone going that way . If you 're in Azores , with a lot of blue water sailors coming/going everywhere than your chances may increase quite a bit . If you are in Ushuaia or have a quick way/cheap way of getting there , considering lot of boats depart to Cape Horn from this place , I would definitely visit the local marina/harbour . There is nothing like meeting a sailor face to face . Last minute opportunities are not uncommon . I wish you good winds for your search .
If you are interested in meeting people I would definitely suggest Couchsurfing . As an Iranian I can assure you they 'd love to provide host , specially to foreigners . You can find many CouchSurfers in big cities . Here is just a sample search for <URL> . Unfortunately , in Iran there are not ( yet ) many good hostels as you can find in Europe . And you should n't expect to see an international environment in the hostels there either . Maybe in close future but not yet . Also TripAdvisor has a great database of comments for hotels and restaurants . An an example I give you a list of restaurants and hotels in Tehran sorted by their rankings ( A restaurant is always a good place to meet/communicate with Iranians ) : Tehran hotels : <URL> Tehran restaurants : <URL> Enjoy your trip to Iran EDIT Seems like there have been changes since my original answer and recently more qualified hostels have been giving service to tourists ! I 'll gradually add other suggested hostels here ( list is sorted by date ) . - Seven Hostels : Location : Tehran Seems fairly good ( at least in the photos ! ) . Website : <URL> - Tehran Hostel : Location : Tehran ( obviously !? ) - GPS coordinates : 35.715353,51.470853 ( Close to the Sabalan metro station and BRT bus line ) ( Recommended by many travellers ( <URL> ) ! ) Website : <URL>
Megabus is okay . At this time it is one of the more sensible options . You can also check <URL> . They have similar prices and a lot of connections . Choose what suits you best . Note that Eurolines will drop you near the Brussels North railway station . Megbus stops near the Central station , a stone 's throw from the Grand Place . The Central station is a bit better connected to the local public transport network than the North station . But eventually it depends on where you want to go . <URL> would be a more convenient option ( quicker and more comfortable ) but significantly more expensive than the bus ! The CEO of the Belgian railways has announced " some solutions " for this week , without specifying which ones ... ( <URL> ) . Stay tuned ! UPDATE ( 01/02/2013 ) The promised solution is there . You can read the official relaese in <URL> or <URL> . As of the 18th of February 2013 , there will be two direct IC trains from Brussels to The Hague , taking 2h15 and stopping in Mechelen , Antwerp , Roosendaal , Dordrecht and Rotterdam . As of the 11th of March 2013 , there will be 8 daily trains . Due to network congestion , the trains will not continue to Amsterdam . Travelers to Amsterdam have to change trains in Rotterdam . During the weekends the trains will only run from Antwerp to The Hague , due to works on the Brussels-Antwerp line . A light a the end of the tunnel ? Wait and see . In Summer there will be a final decision . In December 2014 there will be " normal " hourly trains again between Amsterdam and Brussels .
The main agencies are <URL> and <URL> , although most of the individual boatyards are now on the internet , and you might get a better deal if you contact them directly . Google ' boatyard ' plus the region or the name of the waterway that you 're interested in . You are allowed to drive the boat yourself and you do n't need any kind of permit . If you have n't driven one before , the boatyard will give you a quick lesson when you pick up the boat - it 's very easy . Some of the boatyards do n't allow all-male or all-female adult groups ( i.e. no stag/hen parties ) . This answer is for the UK 's <URL> , i.e. canals , lakes and smallish rivers . The boatyards do n't allow you to take this kind of boat on large rivers ( such as the lower reaches of the Thames ) or out to sea . Insurance is usually included in the price of rental . Fuel is often extra . If you 're having the boat for more than about a week then you may need to pay to have the sewage/waste-water tank pumped out ( there are lots of boatyards that provide this service ) . Mooring is sometimes free ( e.g. at the side of a field ) and sometimes you have to pay ( e.g. at the side of a pub ) .
Well , if you are traveling for business or in some other arrangement where someone else is paying for airfare , achieving elite frequent flyer status in a program is quite cheap . Being the travel companion of someone who has access is another route . Somewhat more seriously , flying intercontinentally in a premium cabin ( or in a few selected services , such as United p.s. ) will also generally get you a same-day lounge invitation . Of course , it 's only a bargain if you 're on a frequent flyer award ticket or upgrade and comparing it to the full price of the ticket . Also , you may have to live with a lesser lounge if you are on an award as opposed to a revenue fare on some airlines ; I want to say Singapore Airlines is one of the persnickety ones . Some credit cards come with lounge access . The American Express Centurion card gets you into most airline lounges ; holding an AmEx Platinum card gives you Priority Pass Select access . Chase has a card that will give you United Club access . That said , the annual fees on these cards is quite substantial , comparable to the cost of purchasing a separate lounge membership . They are a value only if you already have a card , if you are switching from a comparable card that lacks lounge access , or if someone else is paying the annual fee ( e.g. your company for a business card ) . Depending on your travel patterns , it may be worthwhile to get membership in a frequent flyer program with more liberal rules about status . For example , Star Alliance Gold generally gets you access to any Star Alliance business class lounge when traveling on any Star Alliance flight . * On United Airlines it takes 50,000 elite qualifying miles in a calendar year to achieve Premier Gold , which is their lowest Star Alliance Gold level . On the other hand , to achieve Gold status on Aegean Airlines ( also Star Alliance Gold level ) , you need only 20,000 EQMs . Overall , if you mostly fly United , accruing to the Aegean program is a bad deal , as you will not be able to take advantage of United promotions or United program benefits like Economy Plus access or upgrades . But if lounge access is the main thing you care about , and you book fares that accrue at least 40 % EQMs for flight mileage , this is a faster way to get it . * Note that Star Alliance Gold lounge access is restricted if your status is in a US-based programs , i.e. United ( and formerly Continental ) and US Airways . You can not use a United Club as a United Gold Premier unless you are traveling on a same-day international itinerary . US Airways is even more restrictive , as they disallow lounge access to Gold Preferred members for most Caribbean and Central American flights as well . Similar restrictions apply for American and Delta , in the other two major alliances . Another option that may work is to purchase one-time airline lounge passes -- from someplace other than the airline . United charges $ 50 for a one-time entry into a United Club , which pretty much anyone who has been in almost any United Club will tell you is a colossal waste of money . However , sometimes people get passes as gifts or other compensation who do n't want or need them , and they may give them away or try to sell them . Depending on the type of pass and the airline in question , the pass may not be transferable , but for the ones that are , you 'll be able to shave a few dollars off entry by getting one from Craigslist or eBay . Yet another area to investigate are low-cost lounge offerings . I have n't flown them in years , but Bangkok Airways allowed anyone holding a ticket access to their lounge . Of course , the price of that was built into the ticket , and you expected to pay a little more than say AirAsia . Some airports offer non-affiliated lounges , such as the <URL> at BWI which starts at $ 17.50 . None of the above options is particularly cheap , but if everyone off the street could get into the lounge cheap and easy , there would cease to be any point going there -- it would be as noisy and crowded as the terminal .
Although nowhere near as ubiquitous as in the US , coffee shops are relatively common in major Thai cities , especially those with high tourist numbers ( eg , Bangkok , Chang Mai ) . In addition to over 100 Starbucks stores around the country you 'll also find countless McDonalds , many of which have " McCafe " and - depending on the area - many western style coffee shops serving your choice of various forms of espresso and drip coffees . When ordering it 's worth making sure that you 're getting what you think you are . " Cappuccino " does n't vary around the world as much as some other drinks , but there are slight variations between countries ( and often between shops in the same counties ! ) . Starbucks has the edge here in that they will almost always make the US version of a drink regardless of what country you 're in . Expect to pay about the same as what you would in the US , which means that your morning coffee could well be the most expensive thing you buy all day !
end question
start question
Are onsen attached to hotels available to non-staying guests ?
Yes , they often ( but not always ) are , especially in larger hotels . A dip in the baths alone ( 入浴 nyuyoku ) usually goes for less than & yen ; 1000 and is typically available only in the daytime hours only when overnight guests are away . Many hot spring resorts offer " spa tours " ( 湯巡り yumeguri ) that let you sample multiple baths for a discounted price . Some travel agents also offer daytrip packages ( 日帰り温泉 higaeri onsen ) consisting transport , entry to the baths plus lunch .
Sometimes I get the same problem where I 'm unable to perform this online ; what I do - I call directly to the airline ( have your PNR/ticket number ready ) and ask to have your seat assignment . It will be wise if you know the type of airplane before so you can get visualization about the layout ) . Also , when you get your seat assignment over the phone - ask to have it recored in the PNR ( this is obvious but I had a case where there was no indication for my seat ) . For " Premium Economy on JAL " you will need to know the type of airplane and route ; sometimes there 's different layout for different plane/routes .
It does n't matter what you wrote on the form - what matters is what was put in your passport . If you check the stamp you got at entry it will say how long you are allowed stay in the country . For example , a few weeks ago I entered Singapore intending to stay for 1 night , so I put either 1 or 2 days on the form ( I do n't recall which ) , however on my passport the stamp says : PERMITTED TO STAY IN SINGAPORE FOR NINETY DAYS FOR SOCIAL VISIT ONLY FROM DATE SHOWN ABOVE . Thus I could have extended my 1 night stay up to 90 days without any repercussions . The one catch with this is that Singapore entry stamps have a habit of smudging when stamped , so you may not actually be able to read the text referenced above , but as an American citizen you can pretty much guarantee that you 'll have a standard " visit pass " that is valid for 90 days from entry .
It 's against the <URL> on two points . First , transfers are allowed only to family members , and second , they can only be transferred as gifts , not in exchange for money : 11.3 Members must not require or receive any consideration ( in the form of a payment or otherwise ) for any transfer to an Eligible Family Member . While you 're unlikely to get busted for casual buddy transfers , if the person offering to sell you points does this on a habitual basis , they may well be caught by an automated sweep looking for ( say ) people " donating " to over 10 " family members " . And if they are caught , as their customer you also stand to lose your points or your membership : 8.1 If a Member has committed a material breach of any of the Terms and Conditions or has failed to pay any money due under Qantas Frequent Flyer or The Qantas Club by the due date , whether intentionally or otherwise , then Qantas may do any one or more of the following : ( a ) suspend or terminate the Member 's Membership and/or the right of the Member to use the Card ; ( b ) reverse or cancel the Member 's Points or any part thereof ; or ( c ) cancel or refuse to honour any Awards ( including ticketed Award Flights ) , Benefits or both , that have been redeemed by or provided to the Member .
You can get a dramatic reduction in price without sacrificing comfort and safety by selecting a Paris suburb that has good Metro connections ... <URL> is a short walk to ' Boulogne-Pont de Saint-Cloud ' metro station and a quick search locates decent hotels starting at about EUR 85 . <URL> has its own metro station and a quick search locates brand name hotels starting at about EUR 100 ( better deals on the weekends ) <URL> has brand name hotels in the same price range as Saint-Cloud , but requires a 15 minute walk across the bridge to reach the metro station . The commute from these places to central Paris ranges from 30 ( La Défense ) to 60 minutes ( Sèvres ) . These places are in the western suburbs of Paris . I find that area more appealing for reasons vaguely related to safety and long-standing familiarity ( generally not worth going into here ) , but there would be similar opportunities in the southern suburbs also . Adding ... The answer to your question : " Why are hotels in Paris too expensive ? " is because they can .
Nepalese citizens require a visa to visit the UK . Having a residence permit from another EU/EEC country does not free you from any UK visitor visa requirements . A residence permit from an EU/EEC country may free you from transit visa requirements . I would however assume that a EU residence permit will ease the application process and make it more probable that your application will be granted .
Disclaimer : I have n't stayed in either of those hotels . However I slept in love hotels , so the answer to your question " Are these kinds of hotels acceptable for regular tourists , who just need a place to sleep " , is Yes . There are a few things , however , to keep in mind : With love hotels , you are much more likely to get a windowless room . If this is a concern , call the hotel . Do not assume that the booking site will list your room as " windowless " ; sometime they do not . Myself I actually prefer those rooms as they tend to be much quieter , especially next to airport where most sound comes through the windows . Typical love hotel visitors do not come there to have an overnight sleep . Thus you might hear certain noise . Good hotels however do separate sleeping guest from the hourly guests ( usually by floor or put them in a different section ) . Make sure you tell the hotel at checking that you 're staying overnight and want to have a good sleep . Still bringing earplugs is not a bad idea . Some love hotels , notably in Japan , offer " rest " rates ( overnight sleep ) which is typically 10pm-8am . Once you get in , you have to stay until the morning - as soon as you leave , your stay ends . So if you leave , for example , to have a late dinner , your stay is finished . However hotels advertised at booking.com type websites typically do NOT do that and act more like a normal hotel ; this is more of a concern if you just walk in . Some love hotels might not check in a single guest , two people of the same sex , or more than two people . So if you 're traveling not as a ( different sex ) couple , you might check it with a hotel . Some love hotels only accept cash , even if they have the " Visa " sign . A typical excuse is " credit card machine not working " . So if you want to pay with a credit card , book on a site like Agoda or orbitz , which allow you to prepay for your stay . Do n't expect other hotel amenities like laundry or luggage storage . Mattresses there tend to be plastic-wrapped ( for obvious reasons ) , so it feels a bit differently . Also keep in mind that in those hotels you might get a better price by walking in , instead of booking in advance ( booking sites charge at least 10 % " service fee " ) . In some countries even the posted price could be negotiable . Just call/email the hotel before booking on the booking site and ask if they can give you a better price . Expect to pay cash in this case . Regarding issues , I have never had any in those hotels ; the rooms were same or cleaner comparing to " regular " hotels in a similar price range , and the soundproofing was better . There was never soliciting of any kind , and nobody knocks on your door/rings a phone .
From Kate 's first link : International marriage information : Couples from outside the United States can be married in Las Vegas . Most countries will want a certified copy of your marriage certificate and an Apostille from the Nevada Secretary of State . The marriage certificate costs $ 10 and the Apostille costs $ 20 . The Nevada Secretary of State can send the Apostille and certified marriage certificate copy directly to your government for you . Note that this is in addition to the $ 60 for the marriage license and whatever you pay to whoever actually marries you . In the US system the government usually does n't actually perform the marriage , you go to the official of your choice . Many of the major casinos here have wedding chapels . You can go to a justice of the peace ( low level judge ) to get married but I do n't think you 're going to come halfway around the world for a totally no-frills wedding . Note that you do pay the justice of the peace if you go that route .
The <URL> cube series seems to be just what I am looking for . Still a packing cube design for easy access , but non-mesh for liquid protection . On top of that , it is translucent to allow cursory inventorying , and is supposed to be especially light . I 'll let you all know how my purchase fares .
From my friend 's experience , It is possible . However you should do arrangement with the hotel prior your arrival in the hotel .
No , driving for women in Saudi Arabia is not allowed regardless of the nationality . What bothers me is , there is no clear rule in Saudi regarding driving for women , it is just not allowed ! someone came up with this idea years ago and this idea still rules ! that 's why the police gets confused when they have a case about this , they do not know what to do ! anyway things are heading to the right direction and hopefully soon this non-sense will stop and everyone can drive . FYI , women who live in small villages in the desert do drive !
You can travel visa-free only if you have a " residence card of a family member of a union citizen " issued under article 10 of the free movement directive ( or if you are a citizen of a country whose nationals do n't require visas in the Schengen area ) . A residence card issued by Romania to the spouse of a Romanian citizen is not necessarily an article 10 card . If you do not have an article 10 card , EU countries other than Romania must issue you a visa free of charge and on the basis of an expedited procedure . The grounds for refusal of that visa are strictly limited . These provisions are also dependent on your traveling with or joining your spouse . In case you are not , you 'll need a regular Schengen visa . As Relaxed pointed out in a comment , it appears that your concern stems in part from the fact that Romania is not yet a full participant in the Schengen agreement . These rules apply to all EU countries , not just Schengen countries , because they are based on the EU right of freedom of movement . Your situation in the Schengen area is therefore similar to that of someone married to a British or Irish citizen . Your Romanian spouse can , of course , travel visa-free in the entire European Union .
I have no experience with this particular scenario and ca n't tell you exactly how this particular Spanish consulate will treat your application but in theory it should not be an issue . As far as the regulations are concerned , you should have a legitimate purpose and the financial means to pay for your accommodation , nothing more . There is absolutely no obligation to have each and every night accounted for and technically , you do n't even need any specific booking or reservation , although it can be useful to support your application . Your other question suggests you applied for a visa for a longer , more complex trip . If you do get a multiple-entry or two-entry visas from October 1st to the end of your trip to Greece , it would also allow you to enter on the 11th so the whole issue is moot ( there is no such thing as a visa valid for one entry on the 1st and one entry on the 12th , it 's either a single-entry visa or two entries at any time during the period of validity ) . Since you are , as far as I can tell , a UK resident with a good profile , my guess is that you will get a multiple-entry with enough flexibility not to worry about this . But even if you do n't , you would still have the option of shortening the trip at the other end ( returning to the UK one day earlier to avoid going over the maximum stay limit ) .
<URL> Non-Muslims are strictly prohibited from entering the city of Mecca . Road signs to guide non-Muslims are provided . The minimum penalty is deportation from the country . Documentation will be checked upon entry and anyone not showing proof of being Muslim will be refused entry . As a solitary exception , the Mecca bus terminal ( outside city limits ) is open to all . More : If you remain on the main highway , there is a police checkpoint just after the exit , where non-Muslims are kept out of the holy city . Actually this is decision of Allah and he stated in Quran : " Oh you who believe ! Truly the idolaters are unclean ; so let them not , after this year , approach the Sacred Mosque "
70 Euro 's per day is indeed ridiculous . It is however not uncommon to demand a large deposit . So could it be that the 70 euro is to cover the deposit ? It will be difficult to find a sport bike . The surroundings of Amsterdam are really flat , so you only would need a sport bike if you go for speed . When renting a bike , you could ask a city bike with gears . It is not uncommon for city bikes in the Netherlands to have at least 3 gears . A good renting spot for bicycles are the train stations of the Dutch rail ways . Their <URL> is Dutch only which shows that they typically do n't aim for a audience of tourists . Which does n't mean that you ca n't rent a bike there as a tourist . Their prices are however quite affordable : Om een fiets te huren , heeft u een geldig legitimatiebewijs nodig . U betaalt een borg variërend van $ 50 , - ( voor de eenvoudigste fiets ) tot $ 145 , - ( voor een tandem ) . Een merkfiets zonder versnellingen met terugtraprem kost circa $ 7,50 tot $ 15 , - per dag . Dit bedrag is inclusief verzekering tegen diefstal . Vaak is het ook mogelijk om een toerfiets met versnellingen , een tandemfiets of een elektrische fiets te huren . Which translates to : You 'll need formal identification to rent a bike . A deposit ranging from 50 ( for the simplest bike , to 145 ( for a tandem ) is required . A bike from a known brand without gear costs between 7,50 and 15,00 . This includes theft insurance . It is also possible to rent a tourbike with gear , a tandem of an electric bicycle . There are a few train stations in Amsterdam , which offer rental bikes . Amsterdam Central is included , however I would advice to go to a less central station ( e.g. Amsterdam Amstel ) , to avoid the crowds a bit . The bicycles from the train stations are quite decent . In know people who traveled > 200 km in one day on such a rental .
Booking.com has " District " as one of the filter criteria on the left hand side of your search result . When searching for hotels in Vegas , " Las Vegas Strip " shows up as a district . Selecting that seems to * reduce the results to exactly what you are looking for . * At a glance all the hotels seem to be on the strip , but Booking.com 's definition of the Strip may not exactly match the Wiki one .
Yes . Emirates offers nonstop flights from Dubai ( which is on the continent of Asia ) to both Rio de Janeiro ( GIG ) and S & atilde ; o Paulo ( GRU ) . Qatar Airways has nonstop service from Doha to S & atilde ; o Paulo . Near-misses : Etihad has <URL> that it will fly from Abu Dhabi to S & atilde ; o Paulo starting in June 2013 . Turkish Airlines flies from S & atilde ; o Paulo to Istanbul , whose airport is in Europe but is only 16 km from the Asia side of the Bosporus . These appear to be the only nonstop Asia flights . <URL> shows flights from S & atilde ; o Paulo to Seoul ( Korean Air ) and Singapore ( Singapore Airlines ) , but they have stops in Los Angeles and Barcelona respectively .
According to <URL> on Tripadvisor : yes , there are always taxis at Yangon airport : No problem at all , there 's always Taxis - at night they 're actually even cheaper as there 's less traffic ( general rule in Yangon nowadays ) - 7000-9000 Kyat would be an acceptable price to downtown ! If you use the Taxi booth mentioned by Dave , it 's less hassle but might be a little more expensive , if you ( only if you have small luggage ) walk 1 minute just outside the airport gates and flag down a Taxi there , it 's gon na save you around 2000 Kyat usually :-) But definitely no problem at all to find transportation ! Since Yangon is Myanmar 's most busy airport , I 'd be very much surprised if there is n't at least one taxi driver all the time there .
It depends on whether or not you have internet access . If you do , then you have the wealth of information on the internet to help you : As you asked " what to do if you arrive at your destination after a long journey only to learn that your intended accommodation , is either overbooked or non-existent . " that means you will have probably less than 12 hours before needing a place to sleep . As many internet booking sites require 24 hours notice , they are probably not suitable to use directly . However , you can use these sites to find suitable hotels with good ratings near your current location , and then go to those hotels directly and see if they have rooms . <URL> , <URL> , <URL> are all options that I have used before with plenty of success . As the name suggests , <URL> does allow bookings on the check-in day , so that is also a good option . If you do n't have internet access then your best bet is to try to find a taxi driver who speaks your language and ask him to bring to an area with a lot of hotels . That 's a better option than just asking him to bring you to a hotel , as at least this way you will have several options nearby in case the first is full or unsuitable . All that said , as you have time in advance to prepare I would just take down the numbers and addresses of a few suitable ' backup ' hotels in case you run into trouble with the one that you have booked .
I <URL> . Ja , die Schließfächer im Münchener Hbf sind rund um die Uhr zugänglich That says the lockers in Munich HBF are accessible 24 hours a day .
end question
start question
What 's the cheapest transport to get from Ataturk International aiport to the Taksim Square area of Istanbul ?
<URL> is probably the cheapest , at 3.00 lira ( ~ $ 2 USD ) , but it takes very long ( ~ 1.5 h at times ) and is often packed . Havas bus is faster and costs 10 lira ( ~ $ 6.50 USD ) . If you plan to use public transport a lot , buy the Akbil pass ( saves a bit of money and you do n't need to dig for coins all the time ) . The trip is also possible via metro , but involves changing over twice ( Zeytinburnu to tram and a short walk at <URL> ) . This takes 3 tokens ( jetons ) , and costs 3 x 3 = 9 lira ( ~ 5 USD ) , in 2012 . ( <URL> )
The overall cost really depends on whether you want to bring a vehicle or not . It is much more expensive to bring a vehicle . If you want to bring a vehicle , then your only reasonable option is the ferry . There are two ferry services : <URL> <URL> If you do not want to bring a vehicle , the cheapest way is probably to fly ( although the ferry has better scenic views , unless the ocean conditions are rough ) . Flights between the main centres ( Auckland , Wellington , Christchurch ) will be the cheapest . Check : <URL> which is Air New Zealand 's discount fare outlet <URL> If you are renting a vehicle , then ask the rental company about options they have for ferry travel . Almost all rental companies will let you drop off the vehicle on one side of the Strait , travel by ferry without a vehicle , then pick up an equivalent one on the other side .
One possibility to consider is to fly into another country and then cross over to Russia by land , if time and your visa situation allows it . For example , a flight to Helsinki , Finland may sometimes be significantly cheaper than a flight to Russia , and it 's easy enough to cross into St Petersburg from there . Consider Latvia and Estonia as well . Another idea is to use a European budget airline that flies to Russia ( e.g. fly into the UK , then easyJet flight to Moscow )
For such broad flight searches , a matrix flight search engine is the optimal solution . You could use for example <URL> . I did a simple search for you : For that search query I used Berlin , Germany and all surrounding airports within 1000 miles as origin and all major airports in Vietnam as destination . The screenshots shows the cheapest flight for all the days between 1 . of July and 1 . of August . As you can see , the cheapest flight is available for 386 $ . When we check the details for this flight we see the following : Mysteriously , the flight is now only 361 $ . As you can see the flight departures from Prague and flies to Ho Chi Minh City via Frankfurt . The involved Airlines are Czech Airlines and Vietnam Airlines . The cheapest non-stop flight from Europe to Vietnam I could find is available for 572 $ : It is a non-stop flight from Paris to Ho Chi Minh City with Vietnam Airlines : So generally , I would recommend that you use such flight search engines to find the cheapest and most convenient route for you .
I am not sure whether it is the cheapest , but <URL> currently has <URL> from many European cities to Delhi , Kolkata , Bangalore , Mumbai or Chennai for 550-600 Euros return . You have to change in Dubai . You can fly from Madrid to Delhi on February 24th for 464 Euros .
The following route is cheaper , but not all that much , and it 's not possible in a day . Bus from Taipei to Keelung , NT$ 55 ( < US$ 2 ) , every 10 min Ferry from Keelung to Matsu , NT$ 620 ( ~ US$ 21 ) in economy , daily except Wed , overnight ( dep 21:50 , arr 08:30 ) Ferry from Matsu to Fuzhou ( Mawei ) , NT$ 1300 ( ~ US$ 43 ) , daily at 2pm , ~ 2 hours Train from Fuzhou to Shenzhen , US$ 23 in hard seat , dep 21:25 arr 16:00 next day Total price ~ US$ 85 , but time required close to 48 hours . Note that you can substitute both Taipei-Matsu and Fuzhou-Shenzhen with flights , or travel Fuzhou-Shenzhen on faster trains , but that 'll eat up any price advantage ( eg . FOC-SZN for CNY 480/US $ 80 for random dates in March ) . Ferry prices and schedules courtesy of <URL> , trains by <URL> .
The standard way would be to take a train . The <URL> is the place to look for train schedules and prices , and you can book online and print most ticket types at home . The website normally shows the fastest routes only , but you can tell it to omit ICEs ( high-speed trains , often more expensive ) or to stick to regional trains ( slowest and usually cheapest ) . The bad news about German rail prices is that they are very complicated . The good news is that the DB trip planner will usually offer you the cheapest price for a given connection . The exception is that sometimes a day ticket is cheaper even for a single trip , and the website wo n't always tell you . Generally speaking , you will get a substantial discount if you decide on a day and time early and book a non-refundable , non-exchangeable ticket . These tickets can often give you high-speed travel for a similar price as regional trains . Some ticket types also include the possibility of local travel ( buses , trams , U-Bahn , S-Bahn ) at the beginning or end of the journey , check if it 's a possibility ( it 's rarely a deciding factor in choosing a fare type ) . At the moment , the cheapest fare I can see in October is 44 $ for a high-speed connection ( direct , or ICE most of the way with one change ) , if you avoid the heaviest-loaded peak hour trains , for a 4 1/2 to 5 hours journey time . Alternatively , you can pay 42 $ for a ticket that lets you travel on all regional trains in Germany for a day provided you start after 9am ( <URL> ) . Do note that Freiburg to Hannover is 10 hours on regional trains . If several of you are traveling on the same route , note that some ticket types offer considerable discounts for additional passengers . For example , the Quer-durchs-Land-Ticket is only 6 $ for each additional passenger traveling together . The <URL> , valid for one day on a Saturday or Sunday in regional trains only , is 39 $ for up to 5 people . Thus one possibility for cheap travel is to find someone who 's taking the same train anyway and offer to pay the add-on price . I do n't foresee this working well for a cross-country journey like yours though . Sometimes you can get cheap fares on budget airlines . These are often only attractive if you have a cheap way to get to and from the airport ; otherwise the cost of local transportation can be prohibitive . There 's no airport near Freiburg ; the closest is the <URL> , and a bus ticket to Freiburg is a whooping <URL> . If you do n't take the train and do n't fly , your other option is to hitch-hike . That can come out cheapest , if you find someone going the right way at the right time . If you 're traveling from the <URL> , the situation is quite different . Flying might be more attractive , though for this particular combination of cities it does n't seem to be : you ca n't fly direct to Hannover , only to Hamburg , and <URL> 's cheapest fare comes out at 41 $ ( including the booking fees in small type ) . The best train route is via Basel ( which you can <URL> by a <URL> <URL> ) ; this requires going through Switzerland ( which may be a problem for some visa types ) . ( While there are both an SNCF ( French railways ) station ( Basel/B âle SNCF ) and a DB ( German railways ) station ( Basel Bad Bf ) in Basel , they are separated by a few hundred meters of Switzerland . The SNCF station is next to the Swiss railway station , Basel SBB . Since Switzerland has joined <URL> , border checks are no longer systematic and Shengen visas are valid . ) At this time , the 44 $ rate from Basel Bad to Hannover is available if you travel near the middle of the day . Book early , as prices will rise towards the standard fare ( 119 $ ) as the travel day approaches . Many discount rates are also valid from Basel SBB ( which is where the bus from the airport drops you ) . There 's also a discount rate for international tickets from and to Germany , <URL> , but I 'm not sure if it 's available from Basel . There 's a direct night train as well ; it 's more expensive than the day train but can be less expensive than the day train plus a night in a hostel . If you need to avoid Switzerland , take a bus to Saint-Louis then French regional trains to Mulhouse and on to Strasbourg . You can look up the times , but not book , on the <URL> ( Saint-Louis is " St-Louis ( Haut Rhin ) " ) . You can look up times and prices on the <URL> ( French only as far as I can see ) ; there are no discounts for advance purchase on regional trains , so buy your ticket when you arrive at the station .
There is no other " interesting " airport really nearby . At 172 kilometers you have the <URL> . This airport is sometimes called " Munich West " and served by some low-cost carriers . You have to go by <URL> or <URL> from Memmingen to Nürnberg . It takes almost 4 hours . Bus prices start at 11 EUR and trains at 19 EUR ( if you book early enough ) . Add 3 EUR for the transfer from the airport to the city . Another interesting option can be <URL> , next to Munich . It 's 132 kilometers from Nuremberg . It is a huge airport served by plenty of airlines . It is a bit closer to Nuremberg than Memmingen , and you have better possibilities to make the transfer by public transport . You can either take a <URL> or a <URL> . A regional train costs 22 EUR and it takes 2h45 with one change . Busses are faster ( < 2 hours ) and probably cheaper , but less frequent than the trains .
Following my own advice from my answer to <URL> , I looked on the <URL> : A minifleet of four or five buses run by different companies departs at noon for Istanbul ( US$ 40 , 27 hours ) via the border at Sarpi , Hopa , Rize They leave from the second bus terminal : Ortachala bus station ( 753433 ; Gulia 1 ) is something of a backwater , about 2.5 km southeast of the Old Town .
Here 's what I ended up doing : I left my hotel at 5:30 to walk up to Colaba Causeway to catch a bus to Churchgate station . There are at least four different buses doing this route including the 106,123 and 132 . I had to wait 30 minutes for the first bus , in this time I could have walked to the station . The fare was 6 Rs . At Churchgate I bought a ticket ( 8 Rs ) for the fast train to Andheri station which left at 6:14 and took about 35min . There are many trains but I recommend using a fast one . Because I was good on time , I had breakfast at a restaurant near Andheri station for 20 min and then took bus No. 308 ( 7 Rs ) right to the airport . Finally there was a 3min walk to the terminal . So the whole journey took less than 2 hours and cost 21 Rs ( US$ 0.42 ) . If you are leaving later in the day , the traffic is much havier but there are also more frequent buses . Also both buses and trains get very busy during rush hour , but I still think it is possible to do this at any time of the day if you do n't have too much luggage .
<URL> is probably the cheapest , at 3.00 lira ( ~ $ 2 USD ) , but it takes very long ( ~ 1.5 h at times ) and is often packed . Havas bus is faster and costs 10 lira ( ~ $ 6.50 USD ) . If you plan to use public transport a lot , buy the Akbil pass ( saves a bit of money and you do n't need to dig for coins all the time ) . The trip is also possible via metro , but involves changing over twice ( Zeytinburnu to tram and a short walk at <URL> ) . This takes 3 tokens ( jetons ) , and costs 3 x 3 = 9 lira ( ~ 5 USD ) , in 2012 . ( <URL> )
Two days ago I took the Weidong ferry from Qingdao to Incheon , while both the Lonely Planet book and the ferry company web site state 775 CNY as the cheapest fare ( economy bed ) plus 30 CNY port tax = 805 CNY , the actual ticket was just 458 + 30 = 488 CNY <URL> Both China and South Korea have National holidays soon , so I do n't think this was an off-season price . One of the most interesting part of the sail was going through the locks into port of Incheon : <URL>
For instance , flying from Europe into Latin America can imply transiting through an US airport . What are your experiences with these kind of connections ? I had a connection at Miami Int ' l Airport last spring while en route from London to San José ( Costa Rica ) , and based on that experience , I 'd guesstimate that 2-3 hours is good to have . ( Myself I had 5 + hours waiting time , so this was n't an issue for me . ) I do n't know if this is true for US airports in general , but in Miami there was no transit/connections area ( unlike in most airports I 've known ) . So I had to queue , in the non US-residents line , for passport control just like passengers whose final destination was in the US ; in my case that took almost an hour . ( The passport check itself -- including getting a photograph + fingerprints taken -- was quick , less than 5 mins . ) Afterwards I made my way to the departure gates again , passing thru security , which took some time too . ( There happened to be no significant queues there , but your mileage may vary . ) ( Later I had a connection in Lima , Peru , which was a way smoother experience than Miami . This , of course , on top of the fact that you need visa or visa waiver ( ESTA ) just to change planes in the US ... )
Istanbul Ataturk airport is open 24 hours . I have personally gone through transfer in the international zone at 4 or 5 in the morning several times . I believe the domestic zone is the same . Note that the gate information likely wo n't be available until about two hours before departure of your second flight . Please edit your question and add details of your flights ( from/to locations , times , airlines , whether they are all on one ticket or separate tickets ) - and we might be able to help further .
Yes , you can . You should be able to buy a card at the train station or the Albert Heijn supermarket on the airport . The Schiphol has a train station which functions just like any other train station , there is no special ' airport train ' like you might find in other places . It 's not even an end station , it has trains leaving in two directions . As you can see on the <URL> ( pdf ) there are quite a few trains running through the Schiphol station .
The day after I used one of the travel agencies to get the visa in Bangkok for 2200 Bath , I met someone who told me about the new Myanmar consulate in Chiang Mai . I went there the next day and you can get the standard 28 day tourist visa for 800 Bath ( 3 days ) or 1600 Bath ( one day ) . None of the five travel agencies I inquired at told me about this , either because they did n't know , or they simply did n't want to tell me , because they would lose my business . I had looked online at the official Myanmar government site and wikitravel.org and found no mention of the consulate . It was opened in July 2015 and is located near the north-west corner of the old city at :
Cheapest flights to destinations which have snow would be : Tiger Airways to Taipei , Taiwan , and then onwards from there . Tiger Airways Chennai or Bangalore in India , and then a train up to Himalayas or <URL> to New Delhi ( this would be closer ) and then onwards to the Himalayas . AirAsia X to Korea / Japan . These are typically quite expensive compared to the above options .
Via the <URL> , it is possible to book a bus from Berlin to Krakow for 29 EUR , even for a departure on a ( very ) short notice ( read : tomorrow ) . The price for a regular train ticket is 61 EUR . Eurolines will charge you about the same . The travel time by bus or train is 9 - 10 hours . By train you have to change once . The typical routing is via Warsaw . The plane is more expensive . Air Berlin has direct flights from Berlin to Krakow . One-way fares start at about 100 EUR , even for a departure at short notice ( in a week or so ) . Travel time is 1h20 . Regarding Poznan , it is an underrated destination in Poland . It 's definitely worth a stop . Note that all the trains from Warsaw to Berlin stop in Poznan too . It is indeed possible to travel on a night train from Poznan to Krakow . I do n't think that you will save a lot of money by doing that ( if any at all ) . The major advantage of the night train is the time saving . You can leave Berlin in the late afternoon and you will arrive in Krakow early in the morning . Traveling by day you will leave in the morning and arrive in the evening . On the other hand it can be pleasant to spend an evening in Krakow and sleep in a real bed .
The city bus to Corcovado railway station ( Cosme Velho street ) stops at the lower station of cable car . <URL> . The cable car is one option . AFAIK , price is R$ 43 per adult , which is around 21 USD . There is also a road to the top , but city buses do n't go there . At the station you can usually also find people that will offer you ride with their minibuses . The price is comparable to cable car . It may be cheaper if you are in larger group , so you can hire whole car .
You can also catch a glimpse of North Korea on the Jayu-ro highway , for instance around <URL> . Nothing very interesting though , just some hills across the sea . The tour I took to DMZ ( you ca n't get there without a tour ) took us via that road , because it 's one of the easiest places to see North Korea close to Seoul . According to our tour guide , you notice that all trees are chopped down , hence it must be North Korea .
end question
start question
What is the earliest before a scheduled departure that you can get through a TSA checkpoint in a US airport ?
The only requirement is that the boarding pass must be " same day " , so there is no real limit as to when you will be allowed through security as long as it 's the same day as the departure . The only exception to this would be a flight leaving shortly after midnight in which case you will be allowed through security the day before , although in this case it 's possible you would be given some additional scrutiny by the TSA if you were to attempt to pass through security too far in advance .
Yes , the airline can make changes to a ticket issued by a 3rd party . Whether they will make changes is a different matter . In general , the ticket is deemed to be ' owned ' by whoever booked it - generally either the airline itself , or a 3rd party travel agency . That party is the one that has been paid to issue the ticket , and is generally responsible for making any changes at least up until the start of the first flight . So in general , any changes - at least before the start of travel - will need to be made by Expedia . Some airlines do give you the option for them to " take over " the ticket so that they can make changes , however ( at least in the US ) they will generally charge you for doing this . eg , the <URL> states : UA will assess a 50.00 USD/50 .00 CAD fee to assist with a voluntary change on tickets originally issued via any external ticketing source ( travel agency , internet agency , other airline , etc. ) . The fee is non-refundable and applies in addition to all applicable charges . American Airlines call it a " <URL> " , along with a US$ 25-35 fee . This fee may be waived if you are a high-level frequent flyer , or potentially if you are on a high fare ticket - but often that 's at the discretion of the phone agent . You can always try calling the airline , especially as every airline has slightly different policies , but for something like a change of date of a flight I would not expect them to assist you without paying this fee . If your travel has already commenced then you might have more success .
There 's no time limit - as long as you 're traveling that day you will be allowed through security and allowed into the lounge . You do n't even need to be flying AA - as long as you can physically get to the lounge and have paid your money then you will be allowed in . The only real restriction is if you are planning to check luggage , in which case you will not be able to check your luggage until ~ 3-4 hours before the departure time of the flight .
Being Dutch , I have never heard of such law . I also doubt there is a law that would cover this , I would take it as a try to intimidate you . But also as a ' please really , really do not do this . ' If caught out after you made the picture and before you had seen the sign , I would let them try to sue you . But if seeing the sign before you take the picture , do not take one . If the designs in the shop are unique , they have the right to protect their copy-right , but that would go for pictures of the clothing without it being worn . I would not let me be bullied into buying their clothing , but I would also not take photos of me wearing stock unless I have approval of shop staff . Added : Taking the photo is not breaking the copy-right laws , using the information from the photo might be . But that breaking of the copy-right laws can also happen after you have bought the item , much easier even . So I doubt the judge ( if it came to a court case ) would accept it as reason to be forced to buy the item . I am Dutch , I am not a lawyer but I am pretty much aware of customer rights .
Your passport qualifies to <URL> if you prefer . It costs a little less in the short run , but you will have to mail your passport with the application form . Although I was not able to find any info specifically on <URL> about this topic , any restrictions on how early you can renew are conspicuously absent . Information on various US embassy pages from other countries also suggests that you can renew at any time : From <URL> : How soon should I renew my passport before it expires ? You may apply to renew your U.S. passport at any time . From : <URL> : How soon should I renew my passport before it expires ? You may <URL> at any time before or after it expires .
You do not have to use the body scanner for TSA Pre-Check . Most of the time they do n't even have the body scanner in that line . And when I go to an airport that does n't have a separate TSA pre-check line , like LGA in NY , they give you a card that says TSA pre-check and they send you through the metal detector . Even if you do n't have pre-check you can opt not to go through the scanner , but then they pat you down . If you do n't have it and are thinking about getting it I highly recommend it . Do n't have to take your shoes off or anything . So much easier . Like the old days of traveling . As a side note , when you think about it , you ca n't go through the body scanner if you have pre-check , because you have your shoes on and possibly things in your pockets so the body scan will always fail .
There are a few companies in South Africa and I think the USA that offer rides in old military jets to wealthy tourists . Same can be had in Russia and maybe some other former Soviet republics . South African prices for supersonic flights start at 11000 Euro . In central Europe , laws typically prohibit supersonic flight except over open water , and even there it 's severely restricted to a few narrow corridors reserved for active military aircraft ( not counting military emergencies like scrambled fighters to intercept unidentified aircraft of course ) . Those are your only options , as ( as you said ) there are no supersonic airliners left in service anywhere and other supersonic civilian aircraft have never existed ( there was a plan for a supersonic business jet several years ago from Sukhoi in cooperation with I think Boeing , but it never entered even prototype stage ) . <URL> <URL> ( looks to be be the same company )
This is a matter of marketing , costs and strategies : marketing : if there were no incentive to go through this kind of broker , they would n't attract any customer and they would n't exist . costs : this is usually just about a website . They do n't own any car inventory , any retail store and have very few employees so the costs are slightly less than a car rental company . strategy : car rental ca n't discount themselves everywhere so their strategy is usually to give you a good price through this kind of websites to attract you and build brand loyalty with the hope that next time , you 'll book directly through them . Then , they put regular prices on their own website but you have a lot of ways to get discounts via loyalty cards and newsletter ... Hope this clarifies a bit :)
Apparently no , according to <URL> Round Trip tickets are station-specific and can be used for 1 return journey on the Airport Express between Airport and the station specified . On the other hand , why would you want this ? Roundtrip from airport to Hong Kong is 180 HKD . However two one-ways airport - Hong Kong and Kowloon - airport is 100 + 90 = 190 . So your savings are 10 HKD , a coffee . However if you really need to save 10 HKD , then do not take Express at all . Take one of the <URL> , which will cost up to 50 HKD . This will be quite slow , but some buses have free Wi-Fi , and you 'll see some scenery .
You can do so at the <URL> , but you will get the money back immediately only if there is less than 500 HKD on the card and the card is not damaged . There are several such <URL> : At the airport , the Customer Service Centres can be found in the " buffer halls " , after baggage reclaim and before entering the arrival hall , also in the arrival hall areas A &amp; B and on the Airport Express departure platform ( Terminal 1 ) and arrival platform ( Terminal 2 side ) . The first one mentioned is when you arrive and likely the best to get a new card on arrival by airplane in HKG . There are some counters after the customs control where you can book hotels before you meet people waiting for you outside . The second one mentioned are in the huge arrival hall where you will find tons of restaurants , people waiting etc. . I do not recommend this one since the hall is really too big to find something here , specially if you are carrying luggage around with you . The last one are located where you will need them when you leave HKG , you will see them just when you step out of the train .
According to <URL> : If you do n't have photos you will be asked to pay a small fee ( few dollars ) for scanning your photograph from your passport , and placing it onto your visa application form . Another opinion from <URL> : passport photo is/may be required ( although you may be able to pay a US$ 1 " fee " to have this requirement waived ) - recently ( June 2013 ) passport photos were not asked for ( at Friendship Bridge ) .
There 's no single answer to this , as different hotels have different policies . In general most hotels will be happy to store mail and small packages for you for a short time . Most will ask that you mark that fact you 're a guest as a part of the address , and I 've had at least 2 hotels that requested that my arrival date also be listed as a part of the address . Some hotels will charge you a fee for this service , especially if what you 're receiving is anything more than just a standard letter . Normally the item will be held for you at the front desk/concierge ( often with a note on your booking so that they know it 's there when you check-in ) , although at some hotels they will store it in the " Business Center " which can cause issues if you 're planning to arrive outside of the business centers hours . The best plan is to either email or call the hotel in advance to confirm their local policies - I 've never had a hotel not respond to such an email with the relevant details , plus you end up with a record of what they told you in case there 's any problems later on ( such as one hotel where I was told there was no charge , but then they tried to charge me when I got there ! )
The general rule of thumb is that one is supposed to arrive 2 hours early for a domestic flight and 3 for an international flight . That said , I 've never found that rule to be terribly useful because it does n't take into account size of the airport , day of the week , or anything like that . Personally , I also find the times to be a little bit excessive - I figure on 45 - 90 minutes domestically 2 hours international I 've never missed a plane ( although once , going to Bermuda , they had to hold a plane for me ! ) As an example , <URL> ( Dulles Airport ) - On a Sunday evening , I could make it from car to gate in under 30 minutes , whereas on a Monday morning , I needed a minimum of 60 . In general - Allow more time for larger airports ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. ) Allow more time for international flights ( obviously ) Allow more time on Monday mornings , Thursday evenings , or any time on Friday , Saturday , or Sunday before about 4pm . Allow less time if you have access to a priority security line ( usually due to a frequent flyer program ) Allow a lot of extra time if you have to check bags . Personally , I can go for a week in just one carry-on bag - but if you must check bags or fly with someone who does , use the full rule of thumb time listed above ... The key variable is determining how early you should arrive is the security line . You can get a decent grip on this by checking out <URL> or <URL> and entering the airport you want to know the wait time for . Simply add some time on either end of that concomitant with the distance to security and from security to gate , along with other waits , and you 'll have your answer .
Mt Greylock , the highest point of Massachusetts provides a view of at least 5 states . Vermont New Hampshire New York Massachusetts Connecticut Hiking to the top gives one a sense of real accomplishment and the 360 degree vistas are your well earned rewards . North into Vermont/New Hampshire , south into lower Mass. / northern Connecticut , east towards Boston , west into the Adirondacks of New York State . Information comes from <URL>
I believe what you 're looking for is called the <URL> . 8 in | 19 cm Ruler Bottle Opener Can Opener Hard-wire Cutters Large Screwdriver Needlenose Pliers Phillips Screwdriver Regular Pliers Scissors Small Screwdriver Wire Cutters Wire Stripper but importantly , NO KNIVES !
<URL> handles your problem . How to log on Select the ZurichAirport WLAN network Launch the browser ( e.g. : Internet Explorer , Firefox , Safari , ... ) on the device A connection to the login page is created automatically Select " Register " After registering , a code will be sent via text message Enter the code in the registration interface and click " Login " ( the code will be saved for twelve months ) No mobile phone or problems with text message reception ? For an access code you can use boarding pass scanners at the following locations : Service Center ( Airport Center , Level 1 ) Information ( Airside Center , Level 1 ) Airside Center , Level 1 beim Transit Hotel Switzerlandinfo , Arrival 2 Gates E , Level 2 next to Starbucks Gates E , Level 2 next to Alpenblick Bar Gates A , opposite to Starbucks ( A63 )
This very likely violates the airline 's terms . ( " Illegal " might be putting it too strongly . ) For example , here is the relevant passage from United Airlines ' <URL> . J ) Prohibited Practices : Fares apply for travel only between the points for which they are published . Tickets may not be purchased and used at fare ( s ) from an initial departure point on the Ticket which is before the Passenger 's actual point of origin of travel , or to a more distant point ( s ) than the Passenger 's actual destination being traveled even when the purchase and use of such Tickets would produce a lower fare . This practice is known as " Hidden Cities Ticketing " or " Point Beyond Ticketing " and is prohibited by UA . The purchase and use of round-trip Tickets for the purpose of one-way travel only , known as " Throwaway Ticketing " is prohibited by UA . The use of Flight Coupons from two or more different Tickets issued at round trip fares for the purpose of circumventing applicable tariff rules ( such as advance purchase/minimum stay requirements ) commonly referred to as " Back-to-Back Ticketing " is prohibited by UA . K ) UA 's Remedies for Violation ( s ) of Rules - Where a Ticket is purchased and used in violation of these rules or any fare rule ( including Hidden Cities Ticketing , Point Beyond Ticketing , Throwaway Ticketing , or Back-to-Back Ticketing ) , UA has the right in its sole discretion to take all actions permitted by law , including but not limited to , the following : Invalidate the Ticket ( s ) ; Cancel any remaining portion of the Passenger 's itinerary ; Confiscate any unused Flight Coupons ; Refuse to board the Passenger and to carry the Passenger 's baggage , unless the difference between the fare paid and the fare for transportation used is collected prior to boarding ; Assess the Passenger for the actual value of the Ticket which shall be the difference between the lowest fare applicable to the Passenger 's actual itinerary and the fare actually paid ; Delete miles in the Passenger 's frequent flyer account ( UA 's MileagePlus program ) , revoke the Passenger 's Elite status , if any , in the MileagePlus Program , terminate the Passenger 's participation in the MileagePlus Program , or take any other action permitted by the MileagePlus Program Rules in UA 's " MileagePlus Rules ; " and Take legal action with respect to the Passenger .
There 's really two different issues here - that of pre-selecting seats , and that of how check-in works with multi-airline itineraries . As far as pre-selecting seats , every airline has different policies . Specifically for SAS , they allow you to pre-select seats only if you has elite status with their frequent flyer program ( Eurobonus Gold ) , or on flights to/from the US regardless of status . Some other airlines will allow it at time of booking , some only allow it if you pay an extra fee , etc. . The specific airlines website should give you the details there . The second issue is checking in with a single connecting itinerary with multiple airlines . Again the exact rules will vary here depending on the airlines involved , but in general you need to check-in with the airline that is flying the first leg of your journey - in this case , SAS . Depending on the agreements between the airlines they may be able to also check you in for any additional flights with other airlines , or they may not be able to - in which case you would normally do so once you arrive at the transfer airport . In these cases seat selection again depends on the specific carriers . eg , if you were flying Emirates followed by SAS then within 22 hours of the flight you would be able to go to the SAS website , select " check-in " , and whilst it will not actually allow you to checkin ( as the first leg is with EK ) it WILL allow you to select seats ! In short , there is no simple or single answer to what you 're asking . Most airlines will publicize their rules for pre-selecting seats on their website - but be sure to read the full conditions to make sure that they apply to you , without needing status or paying any additional fees . Specifically for Cathay Pacific , they DO allow you to select seats in advance , regardless of status . If the website/travel agent you are booking on/with does n't give you the option , you can go to their website , enter your surname and booking number , and select your seats free of charge . British Airways on the other hand only allows you to select seats at the time of check-in ( up to 24 hours before your flight ) .
There is actually a monument called ' <URL> ' ( Middle of the World ) in Ecuador . However they claim this is based on being on the equator ( it turned out later they were off by 240 meters when choosing the spot ) . Why the place is more special ( middle , centered ) than any other place on the equator I do n't know . It is a bit of a cheesy place but makes a fun day trip from Quito .
If you buy items at the Dublin Airport duty-free , ask the staff to place your items in a sealed bag . <URL> You will be allowed to take this bag through security , but it must remain sealed until you arrive at your destination . All liquid , gel and paste purchases will be placed in a clear plastic Travel Value bag and sealed at the point of purchase . The receipt must remain clearly visible . This bag must not be opened until final destination is reached . Opening or tampering with this sealed bag may result in confiscation at security check .
end question
start question
Biathlon World Cup in Russia : Sochi or Khanty-Mansiysk ?
First of all , it 's definitely Soi ( but sounds more like ) , this is official transliteration of the . Secondary , as others mentioned , you must do a stop during your flight at Moscow - unfortunately , in Russia many flights are made with such stop . I suggest you to stop for a day in Moscow , just for another sightseeing there . Also : Flight duration from Moscow to Sochi - 2 hours Flight duration from Moscow to Khanty-Mansiysk - 3 hours , and flight by is made from other airport than you 'll land from Frankfurt ! , if you choose the UTAir . You can choose the TransAero , but it 's not as cheap as Sochi flight . And most important part : sightseeing and weather . Khanty-Mansiysk 's average temperature is -9,8 ° С , and sometimes there is cold weather , down to -40.1 ° С ( March , 1st , 1966 ) . Sochi 's average temperature is +15 ° С , with sea temperature up to +9 ° С . You can try it out - extreme , but quite fun :) There will be a snow machines for Biathlon in Sochi , but natural snow is in Khanty-Mansiysk . As for the sightseeing , in Khanty-Mansiysk is all about the World Cup - people there love skiing , and you will be bored there if you are not a fan of it . There are quite <URL> ( in Russian ) , and even less of them you 'll be interested in during cold weather . As for <URL> , you 'll find much more fun there - because it is a very popular touristic center during long time . And because of preparing for the Olympic games , there are much more easier for foreign tourist to get information about city - people started to study languages , and whole touristic situation changed in a good way . So , make your choice , but if I were you , I 'd start with Sochi ( plus 1-2 days stop in Moscow ) - for start it will be enough . But if you want some extreme - choose the Khanty-Mansiysk , it will be a journey of the year for you .
We went to Disney this March ( beginning of the month ) and it was almost empty ( 5 minute lines for almost every attraction ) . This was before the school break . I followed this <URL> that gave me the dates to avoid ( see the site for reasons ) : February : Presidents Week Mid-March to Mid-April : Spring Break May : Memorial Day Weekend Mid-June through Mid-August November : Thanksgiving Weekend December : Christmas through New Year 's Day
The decision of accepting or not accepting your entry to Ukraine is made exclusively by frontier guard of Ukraine . Notice of Ukrainian Embassy in RF clearly <URL> that : Решение на пропуск граждан Российской Федерации будут приниматься по результатам контроля второй линии . В первую очередь внимание будет обращаться на мужчин крепкого телосложения , следующих в Украину в одиночку или в составе небольших групп . Decision about admission of Russian citizens across the border will be made considering the result of 2nd line control . So what is the 2nd line control in practice ? To learn that we should address <URL> " About border control " . Paragraph 9 of this law concludes : Procedure of 2nd line control is determined by the results of 1st line control . ... This procedure can include : Determination of departure and destination points of the traveler , purpose of travel and the conditions of stay . Additional documents as well as interview can be demanded if necessary . Determination of sufficiency of funds during the period of stay including return ticket or transit ticket to third-party country or ability to receive additional funding legally on the territory of Ukraine . ... As one can see invitation fully complies to the first point of these requirements and can be claimed by the border officer . So your entry ( or rejection of entry ) is completely up to you : your consciousness , self-confidence and behavior on the border , but nevertheless invitation letter is highly appreciated .
Jeju is actually a very mainstream destination for Koreans , if not so well known to westerners . It is very developed for tourism and until recently when Korea started to become a wealthy country it was the de facto destination for honeymooners . You might think of it as Korea 's equivalent of Australia 's Gold Coast or USA 's Hawaii . For Korea it 's far south , but it 's not tropical . As per being a top local tourist destination there are many ways to get there . <URL> <URL> Departures from : Busan ( Korea 's second-biggest city , at the south of the mainland ) Two vessels . Trips every day except Sunday . 10 - 12 hours . Incheon ( Where Seoul 's International airport is , in the northwest of the mainland ) One vessel . Monday , Wednesday , and Friday only . 13 1/2 - 15 hours . Mokpo ( At the southwest corner of the mainland ) Three vesslels . Every day of the week . 3 - 5 1/2 hours ( depending on vessel ) . Wando ( At the southern tip of the Korean peninsula ) Three vessels . Every day of the week . 3 -3 1/2 hours . Yeosu ( About halfway between Wando and Busan on the south of the Korean peninsula ) One vessel . Every day of the week . 7 hours . ( The trip durations are compiled from several sources which do not completely agree so I 've included a range from the quickest I found to the slowest . ) <URL>
Here are some techniques . Unfortunately the best ones require either knowledge of Russian ( or a Russian-speaking friend , hostel employee willing to help , etc ) , or skillful use of Google Translate : There are many " Groupon-like " sites in Russia , selling gift cards for various activities . They tend to be city-specific , so I ca n't point you to specific sites . Search for " подарки активный отдых ( city-name ) " or something like that . These sites list a lot of sports activities at reasonable ( local ) prices . Once you find an activity you like , see if you can find the website for the operator of that activity . The trick here is to realize that many small activity operators do n't have real web pages , but instead have pages on the VKontakte ( vk.com ) social network . You usually do n't need an account to access these pages , and they often have prices listed , direct cell phone numbers for the operators , etc. . Try asking people on CouchSurfing in the city you 're interested in to help you find and book the activities . Many Russian cities , even small ones , have active CouchSurfing communities , and there may be people there speaking your language . Just make it very clear that you 're not looking for a place to stay , just some help with the language and perhaps someone to show you around . Ask around in good hostels
Yes , the situation has greatly changed since 2001 :) Today you can get into Saint Petersburg in many ways by ferry : By St. Peterline company ferries : by <URL> Monday , Thursday , Saturday at 19:00 from Helsinki ( you 'll be at St-Petersburg at 09:30 AM next day ) by <URL> ( sorry , only link in Russian are available ) Wednesday , 09:00 AM from Stockholm without going through Tallinn 's port ( you 'll be at St. Petersburg at 11:30 AM next day ) Saturday , 19:00 from Stockholm with visiting the Tallinn Sunday , 18:00 from Tallinn ( you 'll be at St.Petersburg at 8:00 AM next day ) By AS Tallink Grupp company ferries ( with changes ) : From <URL> you can go to Stockholm , after that use first variant From <URL> you can go to Helsinki , after that use the first variant There is also <URL> , <URL> and <URL> ferries , if the schedule of two first variants is not applicable , but you 'll also need changes . I found the <URL> company , and they are serving many interesting routes in Baltic sea : You can get to Helsinki from <URL> , <URL> or <URL> , and after that use the first variant . You can directly get <URL> from Lübeck or Sassnitz in Germany , or from Ventspils in Latvia : Wednesday , 19:00 from Lübeck ( you 'll be at Sassnitz at 05:00 AM at Thursday , departure at 07:15 AM , at Ventspils at Friday 00:00 AM / 04:00 AM , and finally at Saint-Petersburg at Saturday , 08:00 AM ) Saturday , 19:00 from Lübeck ( you 'll be at Ventspils ( no stopover in Sassnitz ) at Monday 22:00 AM / 00:00 AM , and at Saint-Petersburg at Tuesday , 08:00 AM ) Update : I strongly recommend minimizing travel time on Russian ships , mainly because of their service level . Ferries are old German ships , and servicemen are not as positive as on Finnish lines . Please do not think this relates to Saint Petersburg where service has highly improved in the last 10 years . Update 2 : Added information about another ferry from Germany via Latvia by Finnlines .
<URL> runs a shuttle between Disney and Universal - but if there are more than three in your group it is almost always less expensive to take a metered taxi . ( Up to seven can ride for the price of one , depending on the vehicle ) . You can ask for an estimate of the fare before accepting the taxi . Looking around online , <URL> it 'll be about $ 30 one-way between the two locations . <URL> for $ 2.00 , but note that it 'll take considerably longer ( 1.25 hours vs 17-20 min ) , and you probably want to maximise your time at the parks :)
According to <URL> , a Hong Kong citizen does not require a visa to visit Russian for up to 14 days , even if they are a resident of Canada . Note that you will require an onward ticket in order to be granted entry . In general , residency does not affect visa requirements , however it 's always a good idea to check .
Round-the-world fares do exist . Most airline alliances and occasionally single airlines offer around the world fares . <URL> ( includes British Airways , American Airlines , Cathay Pacfic ) <URL> ( includes Lufthansa , United ) <URL> It can be very cost effective , especially for premium class ( business and first class fares ) . There are limits on all of them , usually they prevent backtracking across a continent , a limited number of segments , and only visiting each continent once ( once you leave you do n't go back ) . <URL> is a forum with a lot of trip reports done on RTW fares ( check the trip reports forum ) . In response to your comment , usually if you arrive at one airport and depart from another then that counts as an overland segment and counts towards your ticket usage . For example , if you flew from New York to Berlin , took the train to Madrid , and then flew out from Madrid to Cairo , three segments would be used : New York - Berlin Berlin - Madrid ( overland segment ) Madrid - Cairo It does n't matter if you fly or not , it still takes away from your overall segment limit . A segment refers to one specific flight .
Well <URL> , and found : <URL> Which has beds for US$ 1 per night . To quote : But , there 's a catch ... The $ 1 dorm beds are in a thatched-roof hut that is partially open to the elements . It appears that you do get a mattress , pillow , towel , and even a mosquito net , but that 's it . There 's also no proper locker system out there so you have to leave your valuables at reception when you are away . Nighttime average low temperatures are steady , ranging from 79F/26C in March to 68F/20C in January , and it 's always humid , so it might not be too comfortable on the warmest nights , but at least you 'll never be cold . Also , the dorm beds are right next to the kitchen , so you need to be prepared for some noise and smells while you are saving all that money . On the other hand , the Garden Village offers : So you really do get most of the normal benefits of staying at a hostel , even for this ridiculously low price . Want something better , Mr. Moneybags ? If you can afford US$ 6 per night you can get a " standard single " room of your own , ranging up to a " deluxe triple " room for US$ 13 . You ca n't book the $ 1 dorms online , but you can book all the other private rooms from their website . I 'm told you can reserve the $ 1 dorms by emailing them , so you wo n't have to just roll the dice and hope one is open . Lest you think the Garden Village is just trying to get people stuck in some remote place to sell them food and drinks , it is actually very well located , only a few blocks from Pub Street and the main tourist district of Siem Reap . Also , they have a good and cheap restaurant , plus 50-cent Angkor draft beers available all day at their sunset rooftop terrace .
It 's 100 % legal now , within some limits . <URL> : Adults aged 21 or older can grow up to three immature and three mature cannabis plants privately in a locked space , legally possess all cannabis from the plants they grow ( as long as it stays where it was grown ) , legally possess up to one ounce of cannabis while traveling , and give as a gift up to one ounce to other citizens 21 years of age or older . Consumption is permitted in a manner similar to alcohol , with equivalent offenses proscribed for driving . Public consumption remains illegal . The one big difference to Amsterdam is that , unlike Dam 's coffeeshops , you are not allowed to smoke pot in the stores that sell it , or any other business open to the public . In practice , this means <URL> is at your home ( or someone else 's with their permission ) . <URL> has more practical details , including the important note that , without Colorado ID , you can only buy 1/4 oz ( ~ 7g ) from a shop . Bringing cannabis to the airport is also illegal , and taking it out of state lines is also a bad idea ( because it 's illegal everywhere else except , soon , Washington ) .
There are two effects I 'm aware of : Flying westwards will lengthen your subjective days ( because you 're moving against the rotation of the earth and thus staying longer in the same " day " relative to the sun ) . For most people , this reduces the effects of jet lag - you have a longer day , which is effectively like staying up late and sleeping in , just that it 's still early morning when you wake up . Flying eastwards <URL> due to winds caused by the rotation of the earth . Neither direction will magically give you more time :-) When you travel westwards , your days are longer , but you will lose an entire calendar day when you cross the international date line , exactly compensating the lengthened days . If you travel eastwards , you have shorter days but when you cross the date line , you get the same calendar day twice - this is the plot twist at the end of " Around the World in Eighty Days " ) . If you have the choice , the reduced jet lag is probably more desirable .
Both Turin and Genova are two big cities able to provide you a lot of attractions , the choice of the best one really depends on what you are interested in and what kind of cities you prefer in general . As a personal point of view I consider Turin far more elegant than Genova : nice streets with elegant buildings , the possibility to climb ( by car or by a little old train ) on the hill of Superga close to the city and have a wonderful view on the city and the Alps in the background , a lot of history related mostly with the period of the wars that brought to the formation of Italy as a single state ( but also big roman ruins ) , the biggest egyptian museum in the world outside Egypt and a vibrant night-life . Genova has a strong connection with the sea : the wonderful acquarium is considered its main attraction and its internal streets ( Carrugi ) are quite peculiar too . Even Genova has a rich history and has been one of the major european cities in term of power , so you can find several nice buildings reflecting this . I do n't know about the night-life there but I never heard anybody praising it like I did with the Turin one . Regarding the food , both have particular regional dishes ( pesto from Genova for example ) but I guess that Turin with the wonderful wines from Piemonte and the " fassona " meat could be considered better even from this point of view .
It just means that there are expensive departure dates because they 're popular . 3 Dec to 15 Jan is the Christmas rush period as school ends and so on , while the June one is the other big holiday period . It 'll be based on your first flight , especially as out of Australia where you are , that 's going to be one of the biggest . ( Just looked at the page , that 's a pretty good rate for a RTW ticket ! )
Whether or not it 's advisable is totally up to you - it 's a subjective question and each person is different , so we ca n't answer that aspect . It 'll be difficult , so accept that now and enjoy the ride ;) I 've flown into Novosibirsk , and there were taxis from the airport . So as long as you have the name of your accommodation ( or address ) , preferably written in Cyrillic , you can get by quite easily . Walk up to a taxi , he 'll obviously want to know where you 're going . Show him the paper with the location on it , and ask " skolka ? " ( how much ) ? He 'll reply in Russian , you wo n't know what it is , look lost , and he 'll likely write it down , or type it on his phone . Make sure you get the price before getting in the cab - even if only an estimate . When you get there , pay , and voila , you 've made it to your accommodation ( Assuming you have some ) . Alternative option : try and befriend a local , if you can , and get a ride with them . Final option : <URL> , and get a taxi during the day . The airport has showers , and as per the link , it 's definitely possible to sleep there , just be careful about your stuff . For more information on taxi prices and the bus option , have a look at the <URL> .
TL ; DR : I would n't worry about it , and would place this slightly below availability of complimentary hand moisturizer in economy class bathrooms on my list of priorities when choosing an airline . Airlines hate to divert planes anywhere , since it royally messes up their schedules and causes all sorts of knock-on effects . When they do have to do this due to terrible weather , medical incidents or whatever , pilots usually choose large airports with good amenities so they can refuel , offload sick passengers to a waiting ambulance , etc , and it 's those same airports that usually have transit lounges as well . Not that it really matters : unless there 's something wrong with the plane itself , passengers typically stay on board and terminal amenities are irrelevant . And since the plural of anecdote is data , here are the four times I 've ended up diverted in my 700k + miles of flying : LGW-TLV , diverted to LCA to refuel because of strong headwinds . Passengers not allowed off , took off again about an hour later . AUH-SIN , diverted to BOM due to sick passenger . Sick pax offloaded , rest stayed on plane , took off again about an hour later . SIN-KUL , diverted to PEN because of terrible thunderstorm at KUL . Passengers were allowed into terminal for about an hour before we tried again . SIN-CGK , diverted back to SIN because of engine problems . Passengers released into gate area while a new plane was prepped , took off about an hour later . And if the volcanic eruption/terrorist outrage/Godzilla rampage really hits the fan and everything is jammed up for days on end , usually airport authorities make exceptions and grant temporary visas to those that need them . But even the absolute worst scenario is being cordoned off in a gate area for a while ; you 're not going to be charged with illegal immigration or something just because your flight was diverted .
Turns out , it is now possible , thanks to a post I found on <URL> . A sample itinerary , that they provide , beginning in London : London to Barcelona on Vueling Barcelona to Casablanca on Vueling Casablanca to Istanbul on Air Arabia Maroc Istanbul to Dubai on Flydubai Dubai to Kathmandu on Flydubai Kathmandu to Kuala Lumpur on Air Asia X Kuala Lumpur to Melbourne on Air Asia X Melbourne to Honolulu on Jetstar Honolulu to Vancouver on Westjet Vancouver to Cancun on Westjet Cancun to Mexico City on Interjet Mexico City to Bogota on Interjet Bogota to Fort Lauderdale on Spirit Airways Fort Lauderdale to Oslo on Norwegian Air Shuttle Oslo to London on Norwegian Air Shuttle Of course there are complications in doing so , as RTW tickets tend to imply a long trip , and LCCs often re-do their routes and cancel/change itineraries .
These are entirely different classes of travel . Portugal + Spain is an easy trip within the usual Western world , close to home and without any significant apparent dangers other than the usual pickpockets and the expensive Euro zone . You can easily get home if needed ( regular flights from Madrid and Barcelona directly to TLV , connections through all around Europe from everywhere else ) . Russia , Cuba and China are different kinds of animals . Russia is an unstable place , other than in the central cities ( Moscow , St. Petersburg , provincial capitals , etc ) you are in danger . If you go too much south , you 'll get to the Muslim areas ( Chechnya , Dagestan , Azeri border ) where being an Israeli might not be healthy ( even relatively to the rest of Russia . They 're not big fans ) . You might not speak the language , you would definitely not know the local way of doing business , and you 'll be definitely paying more than a Russian-speaker for everything . Much more . If you stay close to the central places you would be relatively safe , but there were Israelis coming home without fingers from Russia , as you probably know . ( FYI for all the haters - lived in Moscow for several years , I know what 's going on there from my own experience ) China - same about the language and the cost difference , but ( IMHO ) much safer for foreign travelers . English spoken in the big cities , talk to younger people ( accent may be horrible though ... ) Cuba - FAAAAAAAAR . If you go to European parts of Russia , or Portugal + Spain - you can go for a week or two . Going all the way to Cuba ( or China ) for a week - a huge waste . If you 're going for a long time though it might be very interesting , and I would suggest Cuba as the best candidate . It is very unique , and will , likely , disappear ( in its current shape ) in a decade or two . Once the Castro 's are gone , my guess is that Cuba will get back to the close ties with the US it had before , and will change significantly .
While not exactly casual , there 's an organization called " <URL> " that 's specialized in teaching the Khmer language to foreigners . The organization <URL> as of late 2015 . Their fees per hour are : 4 $ with a group of 3-4 people 5 $ with a group of 2 people 8 $ for individual I believe $ 4 would be small enough for most Westerners to count as a " small cover charge " .
I do n't know about other places , but when I visited Istanbul a few years ago I had the opportunity of seeing a ceremony of Whirling Dervishes in the former train station of Sirkeci ( where the Orient Express used to end its journey ) . It is held in the evening , I think more than once a week ( but I was there in late December , so perhaps it was more frequent than in other periods of the year ) . The tickets could be bought at the ticket office in the train station . I do n't know whether you are deeply interested in Sufi philosophy and traditions or if you are just curious ( the way we were ) ; if the latter holds , you may have a look at <URL> or even <URL> . If you are interested in getting in closer contact with this group , you may want to visit <URL> .
end question
