start question
Is it wise to select a PhD topic before choosing an advisor ?
In brief : no , in mathematics in the U.S. , you do not " have to choose " a research topic prior to beginning your PhD . At the same time it is _ of_course _ good to have something to be enthusiastic about , curious about , fixated upon . But that can change , and probably should change as you learn more . It is apparently the case that in the U.S. , and to some degree elsewhere , in mathematics , undergrads and even M.S. students really do n't get enough background to understand contemporary mathematics at all , except very superficially . Fine , that 's not a moral failing ... maybe just evidence that there 's a lot happening in mathematics ... ( !?! ) But , then , in that light , the enthusiasms that novices have are necessarily ( by-far-typically ) ill-informed ... and will change if/when they learn more . This is not to say that one should not have an opinion , or should not admit interest in things because one knows one 's interest will change ... but only that one should anticipate that change , rather than believe that one " has arrived " at age 22 or so , and there 's nothing left to learn , and now it 's just " trying to solve problems/do research " . I understand the appeal of that , but , if we think about it , it 's better in the long run if mathematics is not that shallow or superficial . More specifically , spectral graph theory is a quite viable research area . " Expander graphs " are popular and google-able . Lots of people work on this , both from the " spectral side " , and from the " graph theory " side . And , perhaps counter-intuitively , the possible fact that there are not so many " books " treating a topic can in fact be a very positive sign ... it 's unclear . That is , if there are zillions of books on something , then chances are good that it 's an older topic and has been worked over pretty hard ... leaving less room for beginners to contribute . So , sure , it 's entirely reasonable to have specific and fine-grained interest ... as opposed to " general " interest . Like having a specific lunch rather than a lunch-in-general . :) But be utterly open to changes in your viewpoint ... as you learn more , which will be for many years . :)
It is down to the supervisor , i myself believe any extra research projects adds a LOT to your own skills . Being taken out of your comfort zone and learning new skills improves yourself as a researcher . Besides how much " real " work time can you devote to one PHD before your productivity falls off dramatically . I see a lot of PHD 's concentrate soo much on their project that they do n't spend enough time learning new things that makes them so much more productive in the long run . However , aimlessly going to lectures where you do n't apply those skills is less worthwhile than doing a project . Having said that , if you know a good lecturer whose lecture series illuminates a previously difficult and unknown area , and those gems are out there , then it is not wasted time . Devoting your time to a job unless it does teach you new skills may be pushing it .
First of , you are absolutely asking the right question ( " what can I do to make a good relationship ? " ) . The answer depends a bit on the preferences of your advisor - what works for some may not work for others . Here are a few things you could think about : You say you work from home . This automatically decouples you from the lab and your advisor . Have you thought whether it would be possible to work in the lab ( if they have room for you ) for , for instance , two days a week ? This would also help make sure that you stay on the track your advisor wants your research to go , see also Nicholas ' answer . You say you work mainly with some of his PhD students . Try to bond and network with the PhD students you like , and impress them with your technical aptitude and motivation . Thinking back on my PhD advisor , the only master students he really remembered were the ones that his PhD students were constantly praising in their meetings with him . See if there is a chance to publish something ( with your advisor ) in the context of your master 's thesis . This not only shows motivation , but also has an immediate benefit for your advisor . During paper writing , you will also automatically have a number of meetings with your advisor . If you are interested in doing a PhD , indicate this to your advisor and ask for feedback . I have the impression that many professors take significantly more interest in master students that want to stay on the academic path than in those that are about to leave to industry .
For an initial meeting , I would take an general idea of the kinds of things you 'd like to do in a particular advisor 's group , a sense of what the advisor works on -- you do n't necessarily have to have read papers in advance , and an open mind . That said , you 'll make a better impression if you have read a few recent papers , and have a few intelligent questions to ask . It will pique the advisor 's interest , and show your sincerity . As for coming in with ideas for a research project , this depends a lot on how the project will be funded . If you have your own fellowship and can design your own project , then you should definitely have an idea or two ready . On the other hand , if you will be funded by an existing research grant within the group , your choice of projects will be more constrained . One final note -- I would say that it 's definitely not required that you take a course with an advisor before considering them as a research advisor . If that were the case , I would have been on a completely different career path than the one I 'm on now , as I 'd be working for my fourth-choice advisor ( who was the only one I took a class with before choosing a research group ! ) .
I will try to respond to the abstract question , with a perspective from Germany ( that may or may not be valid for other European countries ) : Is the master 's in X PhD requirement in Europe satisfied by a master 's in Applied X rather than Pure X ? The general answer to this is yes . As opposed to the subject chosen for the Bachelor and Master degree , which is <URL> , as Bachelor and Master curricula are closely coupled here , a PhD is often completely disconnected from the former studies . Note that the <URL> that <URL> linked to in the original version of <URL> does not require a particular Master 's degree , but a " relevant Master 's degree " . Without any further restrictions , this means that anything closely related to the subject ( and the relationship between Applied X and Pure X might very well be sufficient ) should do . At least , that would be the interpretation in Germany ; it is possible Austrians interpret this differently . However , it is also very well possible that the suitability of the Master 's major is determined based on the research projects at hand . In that case , it depends entirely on the decision of the respective department chair , and it would be worthwhile to contact departments you are interested in . As a concrete example , it is completely normal in Germany to see Masters of Physics , Linguistics , and Maths starting PhDs in Computer Science , not only Masters in Computer Science . EDIT : To clarify the last remark : None of them have to take any extra courses ; rather , they are expected to bring their professional subject-specific knowledge from physics , linguistics , and maths , respectively , into their computer science research ( while " informally " ( i.e. without a class ) catching up with the CS knowledge ) , just like Masters in CS are expected to use their professional CS-specific knowledge in their computer science research , while " informally " acquiring knowledge on ( w.l.o.g. ) physics , linguistics , and maths , as required for their respective research .
This is exactly how most of the really great PhD students I 've seen have all started . Working on a problem with unknowns is a process called " research . " Clearly , you are going to have to find some collaborators with more experience in the field than your advisor , but that 's part of the process as well . Hopefully , your advisor can assist with networking / introductions / etc. . The support of your advisor will be critical ( as it is for all PhD students ) . The trick is to make sure you have a backup plan and a way to convert to it if necessary . Do n't spend three years mucking around if you 're not making progress . But , spending 6 months investigating if there is something there -- that 's well worth it .
In brief : no , in mathematics in the U.S. , you do not " have to choose " a research topic prior to beginning your PhD . At the same time it is _ of_course _ good to have something to be enthusiastic about , curious about , fixated upon . But that can change , and probably should change as you learn more . It is apparently the case that in the U.S. , and to some degree elsewhere , in mathematics , undergrads and even M.S. students really do n't get enough background to understand contemporary mathematics at all , except very superficially . Fine , that 's not a moral failing ... maybe just evidence that there 's a lot happening in mathematics ... ( !?! ) But , then , in that light , the enthusiasms that novices have are necessarily ( by-far-typically ) ill-informed ... and will change if/when they learn more . This is not to say that one should not have an opinion , or should not admit interest in things because one knows one 's interest will change ... but only that one should anticipate that change , rather than believe that one " has arrived " at age 22 or so , and there 's nothing left to learn , and now it 's just " trying to solve problems/do research " . I understand the appeal of that , but , if we think about it , it 's better in the long run if mathematics is not that shallow or superficial . More specifically , spectral graph theory is a quite viable research area . " Expander graphs " are popular and google-able . Lots of people work on this , both from the " spectral side " , and from the " graph theory " side . And , perhaps counter-intuitively , the possible fact that there are not so many " books " treating a topic can in fact be a very positive sign ... it 's unclear . That is , if there are zillions of books on something , then chances are good that it 's an older topic and has been worked over pretty hard ... leaving less room for beginners to contribute . So , sure , it 's entirely reasonable to have specific and fine-grained interest ... as opposed to " general " interest . Like having a specific lunch rather than a lunch-in-general . :) But be utterly open to changes in your viewpoint ... as you learn more , which will be for many years . :)
short answer : I think the title is not suitable as it is , and thus may harm your career : currently it does n't look like a jack-of-all-trades , but the title looks like jack-of-no-trade . However , it may not be a problem if you are already comparably well known for your work ( i.e. people know jack has his trade ( s ) ) . But I think it would be good to put in some effort to make it more precise about your contribution to the field . long answer : Disclaimer : I 'm chemist . Not theoretical chemist , but chemometrician which means that I also do calculations ( though of a different kind ) in order to solve application problems . I believe my situation is similar to the OPs in that we both work at problems where in order to solve application questions some method needs to be developed further . I call these 2 aspects of my work the " theory " and " application parts of the work . In my experience you can easily end up with the title of all or most papers emphasizing the application , and thus looking very diverse while the common topic ( the theory ) is de-emphasized . Several reasons can cause/contribute to this : the application problem may be understandable and important to a much wider audience than the small field of experts on the theory you use and advance to solve the application question . therefore , the pubications are targeted to journals the application audience reads and you do not want to frighten them away by heavy theory terms in the title . Also , in my field it is much easier to get funding for working towards the solution of some medical application ( and doing the necessary data analysis theory development under that hood ) than to get funding for developing data analysis theory ( and demonstrating this with the medical application ) . And this of course may bleed through to the paper and thesis titles . In the end , the theory development - thus the common topic of the papers - is mainly to be seen inside the papers . Of course in this situation it would be good to have also a theory paper out that brings together the theory developments and just touches the applications as examples . However , this may look like one more disjoint topic on the first glance . For example , my publication list has a whole lot of medical application ( though I always try to sneak in the theory developments also into the title of the application papers ) , and a few papers which focus on data analysis methodology - while the common points of all these papers exists : chemometric data analysis and vibrational spectroscopy . Two more points to consider : The very general title you give sounds like a typical working title to be put into the forms at the beginning of the PhD before the specific line of the thesis is known . I do n't see anything unusual in a situation where at the end of the work this working title is updated by a specific title . To me , this seems to be the underlying question here . If you are in a theory group or are the one in your group who does theory development , the fact that you actually do theory development may be so obvious that you did n't think of stating it . But the fact and preferrably also the specific type of theory development should be in the title . So my questions to the OP are : Does this description of application vs. theory aspects reflect your publication situation ? In particular : by unrelated topics , do you mean something like the application question/chemical problems you solve are unrelated ? Or do you mean that neither the chemical problems nor the methods you used to solve them are related ? My recommendation without knowing more specifics is : Explain to your non-chemist grandma what you 've been doing . Make a list of the points . Fill in the sentence : My papers tackle application problems about ... , but what I 've really been doing is ... Do n't be afraid of a long title . My guess is that the working title you posted is shortened too much : as you say it is not informative any more as the specifics have been cut out . Put them in .
One minor counterpoint to @adipro 's answer : rather than age of the professor , consider where they stand in their professional career . Age aside , you want to make sure that they 're still highly active in the research community . I made the mistake of being what turned out to be my advisor 's last graduate student ; not a good position to be in . To present the case more generally : While all the positive points listed by @adipro were are true of someone close to retirement , they may simply might not care as much about things you care about . Specifically : They have no pressure to publish , and consequently , your need to publish does n't scratch any itch of theirs Since they 're close to retiring , they wo n't want to enter extensive collaborations , as they will likely be gone before the work is done . ( This is referring to long , multi-year projects , not smaller stuff . ) Their interest in grant-writing will be far less than yours , for the same reason as the preceding point ; multi-year research efforts will likely complete after they 're gone . When researching potential advisors , talk to their graduate students about the number of grants they 've applied for in the past two years , the number of new students they 've taken on , the number of new collaborations they 've started , and the like . You want to make sure they 're not winding things down , as that means they 'll be less interested in things you care about , such as creating new relationships , writing more papers , and finding new grants .
In many programs , the advisor signs off on the PhD student 's thesis . If the advisor does n't approve the thesis , it is difficult to impossible for the student to graduate and earn the PhD . In many programs , the advisor is responsible for securing funding for their PhD students . If the advisor withdraws funding that the student was expecting , the student might not have another source of financial support . Advisors are responsible for training and mentoring their PhD students , which is a major part of the PhD . If an advisor withholds that training , their PhD student might not become a successful researcher without it . In general , advisors interact closely with their PhD students . If these interactions are unpleasant or abusive , the workplace becomes very , very uncomfortable . Faculty tend to have a lot more influence in an academic department than their PhD students do . An advisor can potentially make things difficult for their PhD student with other faculty in the department . In many cases , on applying for jobs after a PhD , a student is expected to have a recommendation from their PhD advisor . Without it , it can be much more difficult to find a job . Also see : <URL> and <URL>
It might be viewed as incivil to refer to someone else 's work as " obsolete " , whether or not one could defend such a claim . An editor or referee might object to the title , too , and , perhaps even be subliminally biased against your result because of a too-aggressive title . That is , " provocative " in the sense of more-vividly-descriptive , without too-direct negativism about prior work , might be a very good thing . But I think if " provocative " too much means " antagonistic " , the net would be counterproductive and regrettable . Asserting that you 've made progress is already a bit aggressive , suggesting , as is inevitable , that previous work is being superceded ( even if still relevant as some sort of historical/dialectic record ) . My own taste is that winners can afford to be generous . Edit : in light of edits to the question ... I 'd still encourage a sort of " innocent " - seeming , or almost-apologetic seeming , self-description . My point would be that people who understand the situation will see the implications of even a very-modest statement . Descriptiveness is good , yes , but perhaps not " judgemental " phrases .
If the advisor is well respected externally in her field and active ( what is her publication/conference record in the last 5 years ? ) and relatively supportive in other ways ( interesting conversations about research topics , is available in person when students drop , has funding ) and if she has a group of supported students/postdocs in her group ; then my advice is to decide whether your personality allows you ( cheerfully or pretend-cheerfully ) to take on some leadership roles in self-mentoring . start a weekly or bi-weekly group meeting , journal club , or similar where also people in the group talk about what they are doing . ( try to arrange that it is convenient time ( check his class schedule/university meetings ) but do the meetings even the weeks he can not show . schedule a 20-30 minute meeting with him once every week or two regularly to discuss progress , do n't count on him to set it up . Make sure to prepare something ( at the beginning ) that is n't asking for help so much as showing off things you find interesting or have accomplished that week . The point is to avoid appearing as if you need hand-holding , but to get some interactions going which are positive and useful for yourself to succeed . ( And show of how much of a self-starter you are ) . The delay in publishing papers - if there are senior co-authors , also look to them . On the other hand - choose another advisor Sometimes email gets buried , but a consistent ' never replying or acknowledging an email from student ( colleagues , department admin ) ' gives me the heebie-jeebies . We have had several faculty in my department over the years who had that trait and in their particular cases it never made any sense except as some stupid passive-agressive issue . So , on the basis of that trait alone , I 'd suggest finding someone else who is more excited about their work and respectful of other 's time and energy .
Do n't make anyone do extra work . They may not want to ( or easily be able to ) open a different file to find the reference . Give up part ( 1/4th ? ) of a page for references . Do n't cram text in the main body , but references could be written with a ( slightly ) smaller/tighter font size/spacing if necessary .
If you are including your supervisors name , or anyone else 's name , you should notify them first and allow them to review the paper before sending it to the publisher . If you are just wanting to publish under your name alone , it depends . Are you publishing findings from data that belongs to your advisor ( or anyone else 's data ) ? Typically any data collected by you that was paid for by your funding agency belongs to the principal investigator , which is usually your advisor . You should ask for their permission before you publish findings from his or her data . This applies to abstract submissions as well .
I am not aware of any absolute measure for this . However , you can have a general idea by : Some schools provide last year ( s ) statistics about their programs ( usually in the prospective student section ) . For example , program A has attracted X number of applications and Y applications were accepted . Also , some programs have a fix limit ( i.e. due to number of equipments available ) for number of applications to be accepted . Sometimes online admission results like the one in <URL> give you a sense on how strict the school is .
Editors could be specialized . For instance , I work in forecasting , and in an <URL> , some editors may be specialized in sales forecasting , others in macroeconomic forecasting , others in judgmental modifications to forecasts , others in demographics or crime forecasting and so forth . I certainly make an effort to steer my papers towards an editor that is most familiar with my specific topic . If the editor you picked is not a specialist in your particular topic , he will likely route your submission to an expert colleague on the editorial board , so just picking one should not be too important apart from causing a minuscule amount of additional work . Unless , that is , your abstract does not sound promising to the not-absolute-expert , or the editor you picked is busy , in which case the re-routing could cause a small delay .
I 'm not sure whether the fact that he is Italian makes any difference in the choice of a gift , but anyway here are my suggestions . Maybe they wo n't help you , but hopefully some students of mine will read this ( ha ha ! ) . Avoid the shirt and your PhD thesis ( do n't take it personally , but PhD theses do n't make a nice night reading ... ) . A good book , if you know his reading tastes , or a gift card to be spent in a bookshop ( if you 're in London there are wonderful bookshops ) . If you buy a book you can think of writing inside it a short dedication ( so long and thanks for all the fish ... ) A bottle of wine or two . However , as far as I know , it might not be easy to find a good bottle of wine at a reasonable price in UK . Chocolate , yes : a chunk or a bar of good dark chocolate is typically welcome .
Strictly speaking , the answer to your question is Never . Even after the copyright has expired , there is nothing to prevent a journal from keeping articles behind a paywall . Many journals will make articles open access after a certain amount of time , and after the copyright has expired , other people may freely distribute public domain articles . However , there are some journals that nonetheless have paywalled archives going back to the nineteenth century .
The nature may vary from conference to conference , but in my experience a Ph.D. forum is typically an event intended to help graduate students learn how to present and how to shape their papers to fit the expectations of the field . It is often a place for students to start getting advice and feedback on their work from the larger community , and for the larger community ( who may be interested in hiring the student in the future ) to start getting to know them . As such , it is typically very lightly reviewed and only sort-of counts as publication . As such , it is not worth very much on your resume ( the value is in the networking and feedback ) , but it will not usually prevent you from later publishing a full version of the same work elsewhere .
I deliver a significant number of online courses , though not for university credit . I appreciate emails , tweets , and other expressions of gratitude from those who enjoyed them . I am not sure how I would feel if a gift basket or a box of chocolates arrived at my office . Sure , everyone likes gifts , but it might feel a little creepy to be honest . I provide my courses to the organizations , and they 're the ones who decide to make them free ( Channel9 or MVA ) or very cheap ( Pluralsight ) , not me . So they are the ones who probably should be the target of the gratitude . Since PI <URL> , why not make one , then email the lecturer saying thank you and letting them know you 've made a donation because of how helpful they were . ( You could also repeat the statement in public such as tweeting it or writing it on the institute 's wall , so that PI are aware of the lecturer 's contribution to their coffers . ) I would appreciate that more than chocolate , myself - and I like chocolate a lot :-)
end question
start question
Are replies from editors automatically generated ?
In the case of editor 's mails , some will need some form of response , some will not . If you receive mails from an editor requesting information concerning a manuscript you have submitted , you will obviously have to reply . Since most journals use electronic manuscript handling systems , many mails will be generated automatically as reminders or to tell you something about the status of your manuscript . Unless there is a specific question for you to respond to , you do not have to respond . Editors handle lots of manuscripts and and the automated systems generate lots of mail for each as information to authors , reviewers and the editor . Responding to mails that do not request information is not wrong but completely unnecessary and the editor will likely glance at it and go on . Obviously the situation would get out of hand if everyone responded to all mails in such a system so just focus on those that request a response , that is all that is expected . As for conferences , I would expect a similar scenario . Many mails will be information and only those that request information need to be answered . The bottom line is , you need to make sure you answer the mails where you are requested to do so but the rest can safely be left as the information they were intended to convey .
Here a few solutions , all of which should be fine unless your professor explicitly rejects one of them . Since the MHRA ( from what I can tell glancing over it ) does n't include explicit recommendations , as long as you indicate the source of your translated text and the original , I ca n't imagine them being so unreasonable to count off . Option 1 : Find a translation This might not be possible , but if you can , just cite it instead . Life made easy for everyone , unless it 's a terrible translation . Option 2 : If short , include both I would only do this if the handful of foreign words are pertinent to the discussion ( perhaps due to ambiguity or double entendre ) , or are relatively famous . You would probably want to quote Julius Caesar as ... " Veni , vidi , vici " ( p. 38 ) , which is to say " I came , I saw , I conquered " ... . For such short translations , if you did them yourself or they are well known , there 's no real need to indicate the source of the translation . Option 3 : Original/translation in text , translation/original in footnote/endnote . This prevents your main text from being too cluttered but could quickly turn into an abuse of footnotes/endnotes , especially if you have a lot of relatively short quotes . If you just have two or three long block quotes , this might be best , though . Option 4 : Translate to English and clarify . This is my preferred approach . Just cite in English , but in your citation , add a little extra saying " translation mine " not unlike the common " emphasis mine " to indicate italicization not present in the original . From what I can tell , in MHRA you actually put " emphasis added " in parentheses inside the quotation marks , so you may just put at the beginning or end " ( translated from the French ) " or similar . Or , since MHRA appears to use footnotes for first citations , just include the text after the reference entry " I have translated all citations from this source to English " ( or similar ) , and never worry about it again .
In your example , you are citing the chapter author 's work , not the work of the compiler/editor of the book as a whole . According to the APA Publication Manual , use the following reference format for this situation . Author , A.A. ( 1967 ) Title of chapter or entry . In A. Editor &amp; B. Editor ( Eds . ) , Title of book ( pp . xxx-xxx ) . Location : Publisher Of course , your intext citation would reference the chapter author too , not the book author/editor . The same general format holds for other reference styles as well .
Use a license . Different open science journals/repositories/etc . allow you to license your publication ( s ) / data/etc . Some allow you to choose a license ; others do not . Others may have different repositories . For example , <URL> gives submitters <URL> : arXiv does not ask that copyright be transferred . However , we require sufficient rights to allow us to distribute submitted articles in perpetuity . In order to submit an article to arXiv , the submitter must either : grant arXiv.org a non-exclusive and irrevocable license to distribute the article , and certify that he/she has the right to grant this license ; certify that the work is available under one of the following Creative Commons licenses and that he/she has the right to assign this license : Creative Commons Attribution license ( CC BY 4.0 ) Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license ( CC BY-SA 4.0 ) Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike license ( CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 ) ; or dedicate the work to the public domain by associating the Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication ( CC0 1.0 ) with the submission . The <URL> journal has <URL> : All papers are made freely available under an open access model immediately on publication at the Royal Society Open Science website and are deposited in PubMed Central on behalf of the author . Under a Creative Commons Attribution License ( CC BY 4.0 ) , authors retain copyright for their article but allow anyone to download , reuse , reprint , modify , distribute , and/or copy articles provided the original authors and source are cited . Once a license is chosen , all that remains is to enforce the license , which is simple enough . License enforcement is up to the holder of the license . If you choose the first of arXiv 's options , then the responsibility is arXiv 's ; if you license the work under one of the Creative Commons licenses , then the responsibility is yours . The enforcer of the license general is not required to enforce it if he/she/it so desires ( see <URL> on Open Source for more information , although that covers the GPL license , which is not applicable here ) . It 's typically in the best interests of the license holder to enforce the license , but there is no requirement . If you want to make sure that the license is enforced , then you would be best off keeping the license yourself .
The best thing to do is probably to contact the student administration of your university . They can make certified copies of your diploma ( and presumably also grade transcripts , etc. ) . You can also contact the Dienst Uitvoering Onderwijs at <URL> , which are also authorised to make certified copies . However , it may be that " ordinary " photocopies suffice , if you tell them that you can show the originals later if necessary . You would have to check with the admissions office though , I do not know about the situation in the US .
It sounds like you 're on the right track . What can you do for them that they 're not already doing ? What special expertise do you bring ? How can you move the department beyond where it is now ? And -- unspoken but most important -- how does this distinguish you from other applicants for this position ?
Book reviews , opinion pieces , and news articles are generally not peer reviewed . That 's not to say there 's no review at all : editors read and approve these contributions , and they may request changes before publication if they feel it is necessary . It 's even possible that an editor would ask for an opinion from a third party . However , peer review ( by an external expert ) is not a standard practice for these sorts of articles . Books are not peer reviewed in general . Books can be an intermediate case . Acquisitions editors often solicit external reviews of book proposals or manuscripts , to decide which ones to accept and how they should be revised . However , you are right that the level of review is generally not as comprehensive or detailed as it is for journal articles .
An industrial case study is when you take your solutions or your processes , apply it to some situation in industry , and then report on the results . You might use the <URL> if what you propose can be appropriately investigated using a qualitative case study . This is appropriate if you 're in management sciences , human-computer interaction , and software engineering ( which is what the Damian paper referenced above is about ) . Note that industrial case studies of this type are VERY difficult to do and take an extremely long time to write up and report on , so I actually doubt the conference is looking for this kind of case study . Alternatively , in the field of Knowledge Discovery of Databases , an industrial case study may simply be applying your algorithm to a database that is used in industry to discover something novel or meaningful . This is more common for analytical fields in general and simply requires you to acquire a database or some other data source that was generated through industrial activity . The reason for " industrial case studies " is because a lot of people create methods and techniques and test it only with " fake laboratory data " that they happen to create or acquire . This fake laboratory data does n't reflect very accurately the real world and people want to see that techniques in fact work on , affect and influence the real world .
As Dan <URL> , you have both an ethical , academic obligation to cite your source , and a legal duty to comply with whatever licence the image was made available under . However , in general , the possibilities of that licence are somewhat broader than the CC-BY licence explained in Dan 's answer . In general , a paper found on the arXiv can be licensed in five different ways , which are explained in the <URL> page . Authors can do the following : grant arXiv.org a non-exclusive and irrevocable license to distribute the article , and certify that he/she has the right to grant this license ; certify that the work is available under one of the following Creative Commons licenses and that he/she has the right to assign this license : Creative Commons Attribution license ( CC BY 4.0 ) Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license ( CC BY-SA 4.0 ) Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike license ( CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 ) ; or dedicate the work to the public domain by associating the Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication ( CC0 1.0 ) with the submission . In addition to this is the question of whether the authors have retained copyright for the material after the arXiv posting . If the paper has since been published , chances are that they have ceded copyright to the publisher and you will need to go through the proper channels to get it . Since the question is specifically about the preprint , I will assume that the copyright of the material remains with the author . ( Nevertheless , you still need to check that this is the case . ) The easiest case is if the arXiv posting has been put in the public domain ( CC0 licence ) , in which case you do not need to acknowledge any copyright , much as if you were reproducing , say , a passage of Alice in Wonderland . ( You still need to attribute it , though , the same as if you were reproducing Alice in Wonderland . ) If the paper has been shared via any of the Creative Commons licences , then you can simply reproduce it , with the proper attribution and a link to the relevant licence . If the licence is CC BY-SA or CC BY-NC-SA , then you also need to make sure that you abide by the terms of the licence : that you 're publishing under a <URL> , in both cases , and that your use is non-commercial in the latter . The most common case , however , in many fields , is the first one : the authors granted arXiv.org ( not you ) a license to distribute the article , and that 's that . This means that , barring any fair-use arguments you wish to make , you do not have permission to redistribute the work either in part or in its entirety . In this case , what you need to do is contact the authors and ask for permission to republish the image . In your specific case , however , your group is itself the owner of the copyright , and you do not need to do anything . It is not even a question of you having the freedom of choosing how the initial work is licensed : you 're simply publishing the same material in different venues , which is perfectly fine . Of course , if you want to go further and license that material under a CC licence , then all the better ! ( Just be aware , of course , that doing so could impair your ability to publish it in some venues down the line . )
No . The publisher does not and can not guarantee the correctness of the papers . Also the peer-review system is not perfect . That being said , even though a single paper might have some chance of being wrong , as studies are replicated , and follow up studies verify and extend the conclusions , the scientific community can build up stronger claims .
If the source has been used , it generally must be cited , otherwise you assign yourself results or conclusions obtained by other researchers . Providing the source is not a question for its reputability . If you think the source is not reputable enough , do not use it in your work . It is not very common but I have even seen " personal communication " as a type of the reference .
Generally speaking , you should not put any institution as your affiliation unless you are currently based there , or did the work while you were based there . In this case , unless you did the research while at Linkoping , you should not give Linkoping as your affiliation . See , for example , <URL> . If it helps , it 's worth remembering that the " affiliation " is in many ways an " address " - it evolved out of simply giving an address at which you could be contacted , and some journals still refer to it this way . It 's not unknown in some fields for independent researchers to give their home address , but it 's perhaps more common just to say " independent " . If you have no current affiliation , you can simply say " Independent researcher " , or similar , and leave it at that ( adding an email address is good , if not asked for elsewhere in the paper ) .
Well , this condition depends on many factors : Time . If you do n't mind having a rougher skin on your hands , then give it some time . However , if it does n't get better over time , then something has to be done . Dry hands . IMHO a big issue for many people : chalk dries your hand skin . Seriously . You should have some good cream in your office and apply it before and after each lecture . This can significantly help with the skin condition , and together with the previous point , it may be enough . Chalk holding . There are several ways how to hold a chalk . Some people prefer this or that . I suggest trying couple of them : Hold it like a pen -- however , this presses the chalk against the nail base on your middle finger , not quite good . Hold it like a dining knife in high society -- you get a long chalk and touch it by thumb tip from one side and by all fingertips from the other side . This requires a chalk that writes without much pressure Take small piece and hold it between the tips of your thumb , point finger and middle finger . ( My personal favourite ) With longer chalks , you can press it against the palm , and then do as above . Type of chalk . I know three basic types of chalk : soft square-profile chalks that leave trace on everything they touch , hard rounded chalks that leave thinner traces and last forever ; and something in between -- square profile but quite hard . There are surely others . You may try different types of chalk if you can , to see which one do you like . As for the special chalk holders and stuff : I have never used them , which does n't mean they are bad . Just a remark : With the softy things , remember to wash them well since chalk tends to accumulate in these .
It is certainly acceptable to not have references from your current institution , but it could raise questions , implying that something went wrong in the current position . Having trustworthy , high-quality researchers , as you 've indicated , can overcome this problem , though the question still will remain . Your references do not necessarily need to be familiar with all of your work , just enough of it , and more importantly , how you are as a researcher and person . Having a more recent reference letter would give a better description of how you are performing now , in particular , after you left the safety of a PhD position . That is , how you are performing now that you 've gone out into the world on your own . My inclination would be to include a local reference for these reasons .
The important distinction to make here is between : Intellectual contributions to the actual research/science . Technical help . Contributions of the first kind are -- roughly speaking -- what warrants authorship or , if the contribution is already published , a citation . With other words : If the contribution would warrant authorship if unpublished , it has to be cited . As already stated , this is somewhat simplified and distinguishing between when to cite and when to include as an author can sometimes be tricky , but it should give you a rough idea , as to what you have to cite . Also note that there are other reasons for citing , such as context embedding , which do not apply here , however . Two lines of code ( to take this example ) almost always fall under contributions of the second kind : They help you with the tools you need to use for your research but not with the actual subject of your research . It 's roughly comparable to the contribution of somebody fixing the microscope you need for some biological research . Of course , it might be a very helpful contribution that saved you months of work ( in which case you should consider mentioning it in the acknowledgments ) , but it 's not a scientific contribution . However , the decision may not always be that easy . Apart from the aformentioned authorship criterion ( also note the <URL> tag on this site for this ) , asking yourself the following questions might help to solve the question : Is the kind of contribution to your work fundamentally different from : designing the programming language you used , designing or building your CPU , designing or building your microscope ? If yes , consider citing . Does the contribution affect the results of your research or is it necessary for others to reproduce your research ? By results I here mean something like : The 666th digit of π is 6 . The proposed algorithm outperforms the current standard method . and not : I managed to compute the results before the deadline . Unfortunately , the results do not make any sense , probably due to some bug . If yes , then you should consider citing . If , on the other hand , you have good reason to assume that somebody implementing your solution in a totally different programming language or calculating everything with pen and paper would arrive at the same results , then you should not cite . Contributions of the second kind are what , amongst others , you can put in your acknowledgements , where in a thesis it 's usually up to you , who and how many people you mention .
Many universities ( like the one where my wife and I work ) have dual-career hiring programs explicitly to address this issue . It 's definitely worth asking -- carefully -- whether the universities you are considering have such a program . Here 's how our system works . Suppose Department X offers a faculty position to Partner A , and later department Y offers a faculty position to Partner B . Then Partner B 's salary is paid 1/3 by department Y , 1/3 by department X , and 1/3 from a general campus fund . ( Note that X and Y may be the same department . ) So Department Y has a significant financial incentive to hire Partner B. On the other hand , Department X must be willing to pay extra for Partner A ; in practice , however , once an faculty offer to A is actually on the table , most department chairs find it hard to refuse to help hire B . This is why you have to be careful how and when you ask . It 's illegal in the US to discriminate against a job candidate because they 're married -- we 're not even allowed to ask -- but it is completely legal to hire a cheaper candidate over a more expensive one . If department X already knows that you have a two-body problem , they also know that hiring you will be more expensive . The safest strategy is not to mention that your partner needs a position ( or even that your partner is another academic ) until an offer is on the table .
Sadly , that sounds like spam , and you should treat it however you 'd treat spam . I 'm not sure you should assume good faith on the part of the people sending you those e-mails . I 'm an active academic with an e-mail address accessible on my university website , and I receive : Legitimate conference announcements over e-mail lists used by people in the area , which I could unsubscribe from if I wished . Announcements from people who actually know me . Unsolicited announcements from scam journals and conferences . I receive several of the last category every week ( and more , unsurprisingly , than any other category ) . I do not get legitimate mass e-mails that are not in the first two categories . It 's possible that in other fields there are some legitimate announcements sent the way you describe , but I 'd guess very few . In other words : spam is spam , and you should feel no compunctions about treating it that way .
The answer is it depends - both on the student and the culture of the department . There are of course some situations where working from home is impossible - graduate programs that are heavily lab based come to mind . Below is a summarization of my thoughts from a more data analysis driven field , having done both . Positives Lots of departments these days do n't have lots of graduate student space . While some labs might have dedicated bench space , and there may be an RA/TA office or two , there 's not " a place " where students can work anyway , which makes " is it bad to work from home " something of a moot point . Working from home benefits certain work styles . If you 're the kind of person who prefers to work in a spread out , sprawling fashion , with multiple monitors , tons of stacks of paper , and a whiteboard or two , that 's just not feasible in most grad student offices , even when they do exist . And when the only spaces that exist are transient ones , like shared desks or cubicles , library study areas etc. you also ca n't customize your work space at all - and expensive textbooks and laptops are theft bait . It facilitates more flexible schedules . Universities tend to be closed at 3:00 AM . I tend to do my best work at around that time . This seems to be relatively common in academia , and as academia seems to promote an " always working " lifestyle , having a single centralized space you have access to 24 hours a day is nice . Negatives You do lose out on departmental interactions somewhat . The concern about missing seminars is I think a bit of a non-issue . Those are easy to miss when you 're working on site , and can be attended with just a little bit of diligence on the part of someone working from home . What I 've found missing more is the transient , passing in the hallways interactions . I realized , for example , one day that I had gone several weeks without talking to anyone about my field . That 's not good . It also does some harm to cross-polination and ideas from unexpected places . It can get lonely . Seriously , this seems to be a major challenge . It 's possible , and the workload sometimes promotes , just disappearing into a cave . It 's possible to get distracted , as it always is working from home . " Real life " has infinitely many things to take care of , and its much easier to defend " work time " if you 're at an office . But then unless you have an office its easy to get distracted in a department where your friends and colleagues are around . Overall , I would n't say its bad . I know successful academics who work almost entirely in their office , and who work almost entirely from home . I 'd say the best way to promote on-site work , if a university is trying to accomplish that , is not to focus on the bad parts of working from home , but on addressing what makes it appealing . I finally moved entirely to a working from home setup because I got tired of " work " involving camping out in cramped spaces , without the materials I needed , fighting for power outlets . As for whether or not your physical presence is important to the department - it depends on the department . I 've known some who do n't care as long as you show up to what you need to , and others that absolutely want you there , and subtly penalize those who are n't around .
Conflict of interest rules vary between journals , and some are far stricter than others . In general , it 's not clear where to draw the line for what 's appropriate . Asking someone from the same department to review their colleague 's paper would generally not be done , even if no rule forbids it . Beyond that it 's a little less clear , and you can make up all sorts of borderline cases . ( It 's considered fine for people from different University of California campuses to review each other 's papers . What about someone from the Harvard biology department reviewing a paper from the Harvard medical school ? I do n't know , and it 's not clear to me that there 's a simple rule for deciding what constitutes a conflict of interest . ) Handling conflicts of interest responsibly is an important and difficult part of being a journal editor , since there are all sorts of relationships that are not as easy to detect as a shared departmental affiliation . For example , some people have been best friends since they were in grad school , while others may be enemies or rivals . Sometimes when evaluating a submission it 's valuable to get advice from someone who has specialized knowledge you need , but who also has a conflict of interest . In that case , you should be aware of the conflict and try to adjust for it ( for example , by asking the person for objective information rather than opinions ) . By contrast , it 's much more dangerous to rely on someone who has a conflict of interest you are unaware of .
Possibly Yes If you are using an <URL> , then any unique or interesting results that you find would be candidate material for an article . If you are writing your own CFD code , then you must validate/verify it before you publish your code 's results . [ In code validation , ] The overall objective is to demonstrate the accuracy of CFD codes so that they may be used with confidence for aerodynamic simulation and that the results be considered credible for decision making in design . ... Credibility is obtained by demonstrating acceptable levels of uncertainty and error . A discussion of the uncertainties and errors in CFD simulations is provided on the page entitled Uncertainty and Error in CFD Simulations . The levels of uncertainties and errors are determined through verification assessment and validation assessment . There are several methods of validation but the two widely accepted methods are : Simulate a configuration that you can test , then test that configuration . If your code 's results matches the test results , that 's generally considered a good validation . Simulate a configuration that you can model with an already validated CFD code . If their results agree , that 's also considered a good validation . Of course you still need to perform a grid sizing analysis and other tests to ensure/prove you 're using your code correctly .
end question
start question
What is the purpose of an undergraduate viva for a dissertation ?
There is no single purpose of the viva , but broadly speaking it tests a student 's ability to act like a researcher . It is not easy to define what does " being a researcher " mean , but the list of skills required definitely includes such things as : understanding the importance of the problem and its place in a wide picture of researchchoice of appropriate method to solve the problem ability to find a sound , elegant and technically accurate solution ability to communicate the solution for different audiences Many undergraduate assessments only test skill 3 from the list and ( partly ) skill 2 . When students prepare a coursework or sit an exam , they always communicate their results in a certain style , typically in writing , and written for the single reader : the lecturer running the module . Unlike a typical assessment , the format of viva allows three-way communication between the student , the text of thesis , and the readers / examiners . The opportunity to ask student a question about the text changes the game completely for all parties . For the student , the task is not only to write and present a text with the solution , but also to understand the solution , the questions which may be marginally connected with the topic of the text -- a & laquo ; big picture & raquo ; . For examiners , the goal is not only to check the formal correctness of the arguments , but also to make sure the student can freely use these arguments , and apply them to problems within the big picture . Answering your specific question : it does not matter , what does the supervisor know . In viva , you , as a researcher , present the thesis . Your skill to be solely responsible for the text you produced is what is tested , not the text per se . It is you , who should focus the examiners on the important parts of your thesis . Through the way how you present the research , you should be able to create a right context , and to attract the attention to the strongest parts of your thesis . Success in this part will invite comfortable questions ; failure will result in a number of random questions distributed all over your thesis , which you 'll have to answer . If you feel really uncomfortable talking about ( some ) part of your thesis , you possibly should ask yourself , why this topic is still a part of your thesis in the first place .
There is no single purpose of the viva , but broadly speaking it tests a student 's ability to act like a researcher . It is not easy to define what does " being a researcher " mean , but the list of skills required definitely includes such things as : understanding the importance of the problem and its place in a wide picture of researchchoice of appropriate method to solve the problem ability to find a sound , elegant and technically accurate solution ability to communicate the solution for different audiences Many undergraduate assessments only test skill 3 from the list and ( partly ) skill 2 . When students prepare a coursework or sit an exam , they always communicate their results in a certain style , typically in writing , and written for the single reader : the lecturer running the module . Unlike a typical assessment , the format of viva allows three-way communication between the student , the text of thesis , and the readers / examiners . The opportunity to ask student a question about the text changes the game completely for all parties . For the student , the task is not only to write and present a text with the solution , but also to understand the solution , the questions which may be marginally connected with the topic of the text -- a & laquo ; big picture & raquo ; . For examiners , the goal is not only to check the formal correctness of the arguments , but also to make sure the student can freely use these arguments , and apply them to problems within the big picture . Answering your specific question : it does not matter , what does the supervisor know . In viva , you , as a researcher , present the thesis . Your skill to be solely responsible for the text you produced is what is tested , not the text per se . It is you , who should focus the examiners on the important parts of your thesis . Through the way how you present the research , you should be able to create a right context , and to attract the attention to the strongest parts of your thesis . Success in this part will invite comfortable questions ; failure will result in a number of random questions distributed all over your thesis , which you 'll have to answer . If you feel really uncomfortable talking about ( some ) part of your thesis , you possibly should ask yourself , why this topic is still a part of your thesis in the first place .
( US-specific ; public university ) You 'll find a huge variation in procedures across universities . There really is n't one standard method . Having said that , I can at least suggest what happens in ( one ) American public universities ( private universities have different financing structure ) Financing : In our universities , " slots " are line items that are approved by the legislature and are created ultimately by approval of the president of the university in conjunction with the dean of the college . There 's a lot of negotiating that goes on to acquire one of these slots , and it 's typically based on some " soft " arguments : " look how much research money we 're generating , and how many students we 're bringing in " and hard arguments : " We can only get this gigantic grant if you promise to give us a faculty slot " and so on . Selection : departments are usually quite protective of the search process , and control most aspects of it . Again , the degree of shielding depends on politics : it 's not unheard of for deans to get actively involved , especially if the department is weak . Within the department , the chair might take charge of selection , or assign a committee to do it , and so on . Official stuff : a contract is ultimately signed by the university , and all official paperwork must go through them . Negotiations also happen with the dean via the chair . HR : They 're usually involved initially , to make sure job ads are posted correctly , and in compliance with university , state and federal employment laws . They 're also involved after the offer is made , especially if there are legal requirements , international issues and so on .
Do n't make anyone do extra work . They may not want to ( or easily be able to ) open a different file to find the reference . Give up part ( 1/4th ? ) of a page for references . Do n't cram text in the main body , but references could be written with a ( slightly ) smaller/tighter font size/spacing if necessary .
In general , I think this sounds like a great idea . I would further say that the same essential content is often a good starting point for your personal professional website . The only potential downside that I see is that in the future you might look back with embarrassment on naive ideas in your statement where your feelings have evolved over time . If you have enough self-confidence to be OK with with that , it 's fine : nobody will expect a mature researcher to believe all of the same things they did when just starting grad school .
A postprint is the final version that is given to the journal for copy editing and typesetting . It includes changes made in the refereeing process , but not the journal 's typesetting . It is often referred to also by the phrase " author 's final version " . In contrast , a preprint most specifically refers to a manuscript as it was before peer review . However , the term preprint is often used more generally ( for instance , when referring to a preprint server ) to refer to any version of the manuscript besides the journal 's final typeset copy . Thus it is common to find postprints on arxiv.org , which is commonly referred to as a preprint server . Postprints are mainly used as a way to provide <URL> . Many publishers allow authors to distribute postprints through their own website , an institutional website , or a preprint server . Many institutions ( e.g. <URL> ) assert a non-exclusive right to distribute postprints written by their employees , regardless of publishing agreements .
Based on <URL> , I would guess the answer is : officially , no . It seems quite unlikely to me that there is some other standard of intellectual honesty specifically set up for " Executive Doctoral " student , since it is such a new category . It certainly sounds to me like this person is asking you do an inappropriate amount of work toward their doctorate ; doctoral students are n't expected to be completely isolated ( much of my thesis was based on joint work ) , but asking you to rewrite seems like crossing a line . It 's up to you to decide what you want to do , and whether you feel comfortable with the work . You could always contact the person 's advisor , but you should be prepared for that to burn your bridge with this person .
One important general comment : It seems like you feel as though the department will leave you on your own to take these " needed undergraduate courses " . I find this highly unlikely ! If a department admits you ( and funds you ) , then they are on your side and want you to succeed ! If you are lacking some " satisfactory undergraduate training " , then the admissions committee will know this before offering you a spot in their program . When they make you an offer , they know what you specifically will need to do to meet the requirements of their program , and it 's in the best interest of the department to help you work towards meeting these requirements . If you enroll in a graduate program , you will be expected to get your knowledge of the basic areas of the subject up to the standard set by the department . Moreover , you will be expected to do this according to their timeline . Sometimes this may require you to take some undergraduate courses , which is not a big deal . In my experience in mathematics graduate school , students given the " standard " teaching assistantship are free to take courses of virtually any kind ( with perhaps the approval of the math department ) , and the tuition for these courses is covered by the assistantship automatically . There is no extra assistantship needed for such courses . In my department , I 've never heard of a student being denied permission to take courses outside of the department , and I 've seen math grad students take undergraduate courses like dance and Japanese . So presumably if you were a " fully funded " grad student and you needed to take some undergrad courses while in grad school , these would be covered by your existing assistantship . As to your last question : For the " standard " teaching assistantship , in math , it is typical that the student maintains ( or rather , annually renews ) the assistantship until she is done with the degree . This is of course dependent on the student making satisfactory progress towards the degree , as defined by each individual department .
IMHO it depends on why you want to make it available . If your primary reason is that you want to make information available more publicly , you could produce a " revised edition " of the thesis and add a preface stating that this is a substantially revised and edited version of your thesis - just like other books do . If you just correct typos and grammar , just say that . There is also the possibility to comment on the conclusions you do n't see like that any more in a way ( formatting , footnote ) that makes clear that this is a point where your opinion now differs . ( like a commented edition of some work ) . If your primary reason is to give the text your online CV refers to , then leave it unchanged .
Cumulative dissertation is probably a literal translation of the German Kumulative Dissertation , which denotes a <URL> , i.e. , a thesis which typically consists of some peer-reviewed publications , an introduction , and a conclusion . The alternative to this is a monograph thesis , which is written separately as a coherent monolithic work and whose individual chapters are not intended for being read on their own . The requirements on such a cumulative dissertation differ between universities and even faculties , so you have to look into their rules for those .
As Faheem pointed out there are other questions that deal with what a corresponding author is . You second question is not covered by those questions though . The corresponding author should be an author that will be easy to find again after a few years . Ph.D students are not great choices since they are almost by definition not going to have the same contact information by the time most people read the article . In mathematics this is a serious concern because the backlog in articles can be multiple years and the student can already have graduated and moved across the world by the time the article is officially published . As the other questions point out in some fields corresponding author is used to indicate contribution to some degree . But the old fashioned use of " the author you can find an address for " is still a worthwhile thing .
This does n't cover everything you want , by any means , but it is an attempt to automate similar things : <URL> You could probably accomplish some of what you want with similar scripts . Some of the checks you wish to do are easily scripted as long as your thesis file ( s ) are plain text . If you 're using Word , automation will be more challenging .
JeffE is correct ; talk to your chair and get feedback . That being said , you 'll want to include the following in your talk : An overview of your research topic A discussion of relevant literature ( to demonstrate that you 've researched the topic ) A discussion of your specific problem Another literature discussion , much more focused on your specific problem Any preliminary results of experiments you may have run , if any What you plan on doing for the next few years ( Possibly most important ) Any specific issues/problems that your advisors have raised about your research . You should specifically address these to show that you 're paying attention to what they say and that you listen to their comments . The best way to prepare is to talk with everyone in advance and find out what their objections/comments/issues / questions will be as much as possible , and then do your best to prepare for that and any related issues . If that sounds like a lot of work , it 's because it is a lot of work . Dan 's comments are also spot on ; you may have some very difficult committee members who will ask all sorts of questions , and you should make sure your advisor is on your side from the get-go .
I do n't know if it 's legal ( it could depend on what counts as fair use , for example ) , but I would n't be concerned . I do n't see any likelihood that this will harm you . It 's possible that they asked the journal for permission to reprint the abstract , but I 'd guess they just grabbed it from the web . The " journalists obtained a quote " stuff may be intended to make it look like a press release or news article , rather than a reprinted abstract . One positive side effect is that this makes it clear that the publisher is quoting you describing your work , rather than that you chose to publish an abstract in this venue . I do n't know why the publisher would compile these volumes . They have no academic value whatsoever , but it 's easy to speculate about motives : If these volumes are assembled by programs scraping the web , then the publisher only needs to sell a handful of them to make a profit . With thousands of volumes available , they can presumably find a few suckers who will pay for one , or perhaps even careless librarians they can sell subscriptions to . Maybe the volumes are used for content farming , to try to mimic genuine content and thereby attract web searchers ( so the publisher can sell ads or otherwise exploit these visits ) . They might also be used to create the illusion of academic respectability for the publisher , by creating a big catalog full of books that look reasonable at first glance ( but not at second glance ) . It could be someone who is genuinely trying to perform a useful service and simply does n't recognize how useless this is . If this bothers you , you could bring it to the attention of your publisher . If they did n't authorize the use of the abstract , then they 'll decide whether they can or should do anything about it .
Personally , I am a big believer of footnotes . They enable additional information to be added , without distracting the reader from the main argument . However , others will not share my position . One test I like to apply before adding a footnote is : can I include the footnote text in the main body ? If I can do so without hindering the reader , then I tend to do so .
There 's a wide range of people called adjunct faculty . For example , it may include working professionals in the field who serve as part-time faculty ( this is common in law and architecture , and I 've seen it with industrial researchers in computer science ) . Depending on the circumstances , this sort of adjunct may be treated much like the other faculty in the department , except for being part time . However , I assume you are talking about the most common use of the term " adjunct " , at least in the US , namely low-paid , low-status faculty typically teaching part time on temporary contracts . ( They may be working full time overall , but only part time at any given institution , so the universities can avoid paying benefits . ) For this sort of adjunct , it really depends on the details of the contract , and it may vary between universities , as well as depending on issues such as whether any of the courses are online . A typical arrangement will include some amount of course design ( at least at the level of creating a syllabus ) , lecturing , grading , and office hours . Typically there is no committee work or other service and no research duties .
I doubt there are any drawbacks to posting on such a site , other than the time required . But I also doubt there are very many advantages . I do n't think very many people will look on such sites for theses . If I need something from a PhD thesis , my algorithm would be something like this : Look for published papers by the student which discuss the work . Google the student 's name and thesis title . Look for the student 's website . Look on the department 's website . Look on the institution 's library 's website . Try to contact the student ( via website or Google search ) and ask if they will send me a copy . Try to contact the student 's advisor and ask if they have a copy . Contact someone else I know at the institution , and ask if they can find the thesis in their library . Try to get a copy from <URL> ( last resort ) . Searching other repositories would probably come somewhere between steps 8 and 9 . So if you can try to make sure your thesis is findable at some earlier stage of this process , you probably do n't need to bother with much more .
He should just use his official employer . There are lots of scientific papers from people with affiliations in industry . Most of the time , these authors are working for companies in technical fields that are at least somewhat related to the research , but not always . ( I knew of somebody who was still working with his doctoral advisor doing research in theoretical particle physics , while he was employed at a company making speech recognition software , and the software company was his listed affiliation . ) Especially if most of the other authors have more conventional affiliations , listing a consulting company for one authors is not going to raise any eyebrows . If the manuscript was completely written while he was a student , he could use his university affiliation , with a footnote indicating his current position . However , I would imagine in this case that the text was not finalized until after the author moved into industry , in which case the university affiliation is not appropriate .
There is no difference . There is no global standard for what qualifies as a BS and what qualifies as a BA ; it 's entirely up to the university . There is no way to tell from the letters on your diploma how broad or rigorous your degree program is . Computer science programs in the US , at least in engineering colleges , are accredited by ABET . Those accredited programs tend to give Bachelor of Science degrees . But CS accreditation is relatively new , and neither graduate scihools nor employers really care whether your degree is accredited ( except for some government jobs which require accredited degrees by law ) . What does matter is which classes you took , and how rigorous those classes are ( or appear to be , based on publicly available course descriptions/materials ) . If the degree type does n't matter , what are the positives/negatives of getting a PhD with an BA/BS . The only advantage of getting a PhD with a BS instead of a BA is that you have one more S in your CV and one less A . This is also the only disadvantqge .
I 'm attending a similar program at my university ( also UK based ) , and I was observed by a senior member of my faculty , and by another attendee of the same program . The main point was to initiate a <URL> of our teaching . Hence , the observation was not an evaluation , but simply the collection of some pieces of evidence , that described our lecture . Our actual assignment was not the observation in itself , but how we reflect upon the evidence , by describing how we feel about it , how we analyse it , what conclusions do we make about it , and what are the next steps we decide to engage on . Interestingly , I 've collected different types of evidence from my two observers : the senior member of my faculty made some observations in particular related to the content of my lecture , while the observer who was on the same program made some observations related to some of the techniques taught in the program that I used during the lecture . In both cases , all observations were really useful to start the reflective process . I can only assume this is the rationale for you to have three different observers .
end question
start question
As a computational chemist , which online resources are available for Ph.D. level jobs ?
One of the best resources for jobs in computational chemistry ( not limited to PhD level positions ) is the job section of the <URL> . Another place where I 've regularly seen relevant postings is the <URL> .
I think your question indicates a fundamental misunderstanding of what a honorary degree is , and who gets one . Fundamentally , an honorary degree can not be compared to a regular PhD . All the rules for getting a PhD fly out the window , as do all the perceived benefits for doing a PhD . If you get an honorary PhD , nobody will suddenly assume that you possess the subject knowledge of the holder of a regular PhD . Similarly , you seem to assume that an honorary degree is somehow an easy way towards a PhD . This is not the case . By and large , by the time you get an honorary degree , you either already have enough degrees or you will never need one again in your life . Can that person be called a doctor at all ? Yes , as long as you do n't pretend to have a " regular " PhD . can an Honoris causa graduate give lectures at a university ? Sure . Everybody can give a lecture given that he gets invited or appointed to do so . In the usual case , somebody important enough to receive an honorary doctorate is also somebody that an university would love to get for a lecture . Is it possible for one to get an honorary degree in science , or engineering Sure . How much demonstrated work would it take to get one ? Usually none .
My experience of business cards in academia is that they are mostly just an easier way to share contact information than scribbling it on a napkin . As such , the only things that are really important are institution , name , title ( because everybody will expect it ) , and sets of preferred contact information . As such , if you want people calling you , put down your phone number ; if you do n't want people calling you , do n't put it down . Likewise for all of the other standard aspects . You probably should have a web page that you want people to visit . As for social media sites like LinkedIn : I 'm rather dubious about them , simply because there are potentially so many . I think one would n't be a problem , but the extrapolator in my mind goes to a ridiculous image of somebody handing me a card with their LinkedIn , Twitter , Google + , ResearchGate , Facebook , etc. . Do n't be that person , or else if I meet you at a conference and you hand me your card , I may have a difficult time avoiding laughter .
A few government fellowships come to mind : <URL> <URL> <URL> There are also many fellowships from industrial research labs that you could look into , depending on your field ( Intel , IBM Research , Microsoft Research , Facebook , Nvidia , etc. )
In mathematics , some graduate degrees are offered online , but you should be careful . There are real advantages to doing it in person , and most of the schools offering online degrees are not well respected , so if you select a program based on internet advertising , you will probably waste your money without learning very much or ending up with a valuable credential . ( It 's depressing how many businesspeople view distance education as just a money making opportunity , without any serious commitment to doing a good job . When you investigate online education , please keep in mind that many web sites are trying to sell you something of questionable value . ) One respectable example is the University of Washington , which offers an online M.S. in applied mathematics , and there are some others like this . They could be viable options if attending in person is impossible . I do not know of any well respected math graduate program from a 100 % distance education university in the US , so you should be very suspicious of such programs , although perhaps they exist in other countries ( Open University ? ) . There is no worthwhile online Ph.D. program in mathematics . If your only goal is to get the degree itself , for example to move up in a salary scale for a job you already have , then it might be possible , but you would have to look carefully to make sure the program is accredited , and even so it wo n't be an impressive addition to your CV . If you are hoping for a career in academia or industrial research , do n't even think about an online Ph.D. . If an institution offers an online Ph.D. in mathematics , and presents it as being just as good and respected as a traditional Ph.D. , then you should be extremely suspicious of the entire institution . As for computer science , I do n't know as much about online master 's programs , but the issues are similar and I imagine the conclusions are as well . The online Ph.D. situation is definitely the same as in math .
First , let me place my answer in the context of American academia . I 'm sure that in some other parts of the world social conventions are different . Contemporary American academia is one of the more formally progressive and tolerant subsets of western society . There are American schools which recognize a student 's right not to have any gender ! Although this is an extreme point , academic culture places a premium on toleration of personal differences , to the extent that most hiring committees are instructed not to take such " irrelevant things " as personal appearance into account . But do they ? I think all human beings do , in some ways . I do believe that people who are more physically attractive make more attractive job candidates , all other things being equal ( and there are lots of studies to back this up ) . Recently for health reasons I lost a substantial amount of weight , and I think that my relations with undergraduate students are noticeably better , e.g. resulting in higher evaluations . Of course this probably has at least as much to do with the way I ( nonverbally ) communicate that I perceive myself : being more comfortable in your own skin shows . As a result , if long hair feels natural and good to you , then I would recommend that you keep it . Like Samson , it may somehow be a source of strength for you . I was going to say that even the fact that you 're asking about it seems slightly strange , but then I remembered that as a graduate student I would shave my goatee every fall ( when I was teaching ) and let it grow every spring ( when I was n't ) . I have now had a goatee continuously since getting a PhD in 2003 ! I also used to dress more nicely for class than I otherwise would . While I still think that one should not wear clothing which is especially ratty in any professional context , I have long since learned that nobody cares whether I wear sneakers or a jacket or anything like that . The other thing is that it is not 1964 anymore : the men who were long-haired youths in the 1970s are now some of the senior people around , and many are still proudly growing long what remains of their hair . Both of the men who have been department heads in my time at my present job grow their hair longer than what conservative mores would recommend , and the current chair has hair halfway down his back . It is really no big deal . Let me say finally that the odd faculty member who mutters something sour about your hair probably had other reasons not to like you . And if not , do you really want colleagues who are so superficial and intolerant ? Times are tough , but I think one needs to make feeling comfortable in one 's own skin a high priority .
I can not see any problem with this as long as no copyrighted material is accessible in such a way that it breaks the copyrights of the book . Although the outline of a book probably can be considered the intellectual property of the author ( and possibly the publisher depending on copyright ) , I doubt anyone would object since the purpose of writing a ( course ) book is to provide a product to support teaching of a specific topic . The structure of a book can often be the most logical way of presenting the material . The key issues is rather if you reproduce parts of the book such as providing the exercises on-line . As long as participants must obtain the material in the book on their own you should not worry . From this perspective it is no different from a normal university course ( where it is also illegal to copy and distribute material freely from a book ( or equivalent ) . So for an on-line course , you just need to be very careful with reproducing text or figures from copyrighted materials in ways that breaks the rules . You can also contact the holder of the copyright ( author/publisher ) to obtain the right to provide parts within the course . The success of this may depend on the system you use for on-line material and what file formats you use for distributing the materials . Such details will likely be made clear by the copyright owner if you ask .
<URL> , <URL> , <URL> and other indexing services have their own ways how the papers get into their database . For Scopus , the journal has to be registered there , and then actively send the data . It 's similar for Web of Knowledge I think . Google gets the data from who-knows-where and I doubt you can control it efficiently . In general , it takes couple weeks to several months . As dgraziotin pointed out in comments , Google Scholar indexes citations from <URL> quite quickly , in couple days . However , by many people and many institutions , arXiv papers are not considered at all regarding citations , unless they are published properly elsewhere and properly Journal-ref ' ed ; even then , many people do n't trust that the arXiv version is correct , because nobody makes any check of this ( I mean , you can put whatever Journal-ref to whatever your arXiv paper , so it 's not trusted ) .
Speaking both as a PhD advisor and as someone with a diagnosed and controlled bipolar disorder , I would definitely consider a student with mental health issues . I would , much like awsoci discusses in their response , insist the student not treat the advisory relationship as a therapeutic outlet , and that the student lean on the available resources inside and outside campus . My own PhD advisor ( back in the day ) knew about my issues , and the same holds true for all the PhD students with mental health problems I know right now . All that said , there are risks with disclosing , and definitely with disclosing widely . There is no guarantee that any given PhD advisor would be fine with the situation , and even if there are anti-discrimination clauses available , the relationship might not work out well in the end if it starts out on a shaky basis . To summarize : In principle and in theory , advisors should take on qualified students with disabilities . In practice , your mileage most likely will vary , but I personally would not let the disability be a deciding factor in taking on a student .
Being in the situation of looking for postdoctoral positions , I can at least give you my feelings of how I would understand that the person I contacted is interested , but can not provide a position right now : First of all , replying is already a good sign of interest . There are many persons who do n't even take the time to answer to an official application for an open position ( apart from the standard acknowledgement email ) , and you have to consider that you do n't get the job if you do n't hear from them . So , if you take the time to answer , that shows that you have at least a bit of interest Then , if you provide a " personalized " answer , that shows that you took the time to read some of the applicant 's papers , then it 's clear that you are interested , and even if you ca n't provide a position , you might be interested in a collaboration . The ideal would be if you can invite the applicant to give a talk , even though it 's clear that there is no job following It would be a good opportunity for the applicant to talk about his work , to get some practice , meet new people , and that can also give you the opportunity to talk about creating a project together . Basically , when one contacts a professor even though there are no official open positions , there are no really high expectations . But knowing that the professor is interested , but has no funding , is great , because it also opens the possibility to apply for a position in one year or two , when some funding is available . In order to show your interest , you can consider it as offering a potential collaboration : you ca n't provide money , but you would be glad to work with the applicant .
There are two general cases for supplying a URL or DOI for information : Information where a URL is required in order to locate and uniquely identify a source , e.g. , referencing a website or a software distribution . In this case , you must always include the link , typically along with the date retrieved , as the contents at the end of the link may vary over time . Information where a DOI ( or similar persistent link ) is a " nice to have " that gives a fast link directly to the original source , e.g. , referencing a standard journal article . In this case , it is " best practice " to always include the link , but not strictly necessary . Personally , I am lazy , and include DOIs in the second case only when the bibliographic source I 'm pulling from includes them in the reference already -- unless specifically asked for them I will no go through the trouble of looking up what is ( strictly speak ) redundant information . For this same reason , whenever I am hard up against a page limit , the DOIs are the first thing to be deleted , because it is better to delete redundant bibliographic information than to remove content from the text .
According to the <URL> , the location number is actually a bad idea because it has limited retrievability . The blog also mentions that since Kindle 's third generation , e-books have started to have real page numbers , you may try looking into that . Another post on <URL> suggests that for materials that are not paginated , consider citing chapter number or chapter heading plus paragraph numbers .
There is no difference . There is no global standard for what qualifies as a BS and what qualifies as a BA ; it 's entirely up to the university . There is no way to tell from the letters on your diploma how broad or rigorous your degree program is . Computer science programs in the US , at least in engineering colleges , are accredited by ABET . Those accredited programs tend to give Bachelor of Science degrees . But CS accreditation is relatively new , and neither graduate scihools nor employers really care whether your degree is accredited ( except for some government jobs which require accredited degrees by law ) . What does matter is which classes you took , and how rigorous those classes are ( or appear to be , based on publicly available course descriptions/materials ) . If the degree type does n't matter , what are the positives/negatives of getting a PhD with an BA/BS . The only advantage of getting a PhD with a BS instead of a BA is that you have one more S in your CV and one less A . This is also the only disadvantqge .
I would not suggest to write an email that does only ask for the status of the application before the announced time of selection is over -- even when the email is totally calm and polite . The program has a schedule , the applicants are supposed to know the schedule . However , you may have some other good reason to write an email . As Thomas commented to another answer : A good reason to ask for the status would be an offer for another opportunity . You could also try to find another good question to ask ( but be sure that it is not already answered in the FAQ or wherever ) . Also , you could provide some new relevant information , if there is any ( e.g. some new grades , completed projects , ... ) .
This is a partial representation of the truth . On the one hand , departments are always looking to retain masters students as PhD students ; it 's better for the department ( better numbers ) , it 's better for the professors ( more research from PhD relative to masters ) , and it 's better for the university . On the other hand , simply looking at the numbers you 'll see that most masters students do not go on to become a PhD student <URL> . I think it 's safe to say that most students who go through masters programs enter with a goal in mind ( academia or industry ) and finish with that same goal in mind . I do n't know how it works in other countries , so I ca n't compare that . Also , regarding whether they put more emphasis on PhD preparation than in other countries , I do n't know how to quantify that .
One of the best resources for jobs in computational chemistry ( not limited to PhD level positions ) is the job section of the <URL> . Another place where I 've regularly seen relevant postings is the <URL> .
When you 're invited for an interview , the university should offer some guidance on how to book travel and what they will reimburse . If for some reason they do n't , it 's reasonable to ask how you should handle it . By default you should book a reasonably priced economy-class ticket ( i.e. , given several options do n't take one that stands out as much more expensive ) . It 's wise to save a few screenshots of price comparisons in case anyone suggests you should have gotten a much better deal . If all the available flights seem remarkably expensive , for example if you are invited to interview with relatively little notice , then you can always check to make sure they are OK with the expense ( but they will presumably say yes if the expense could not reasonably be avoided ) .
One of the most important factors is in which country you plan to work after getting your diploma . E.g. , if you plan to work in France , some French diplomas are just as valuable as " top " US schools .
Very roughly , at the US universities I have worked for , the IP policies have been along these general lines : When you write a paper or book as part of your research , you get to keep the copyright and any royalties . But the university gets permission to use the work internally , keep a copy in the library , etc. . If , as part of your research , you invent something that 's patentable , contact the university 's IP office . They will help you with the patent process . You and the university will hold the patent together , or some similar arrangement . They have to agree on any licensing agreements , etc ( where you sell some company the rights to use your patent ) , and they get a large share ( perhaps half or so ) of whatever royalties or fees are earned . ( I 'm a pure mathematician , and we never invent anything patentable , so I always skim the patent part and may have got it wrong :-)
There are two major types of advisor approaches which I 've encountered during my studies : Hands-off , abstract guidance only . Hint at which areas are interesting or currently active , but do not throw yourself into your student 's work . Usually such advisors will gladly proofread the student 's work for errors , but they rarely know what to do if a student gets seriously stuck . Advisor sessions may be spent discussing current trends , future work of either the advisor or the student or , in some cases , simply " life advice " . Co-worker approach . The advisor treats his student as an equal and tries to immerse himself into the student 's work ( or vice versa ) . By having a lot of exposure to the advisor 's routine ( how he goes around solving problems , how much time he spends doing research , how he prepares for lectures , etc. ) , the teacher aims to guide the student by example . These two approaches are often seen in combination ( while the student may be treated as a coworker , he still is usually the one to do the typesetting , the programming , and other time-consuming tasks ) . Personally , I prefer the second approach , which is likely because I am not that settled in the " theoretical research " routine . Some of my friends , who have known since their Master 's studies what they want to do , are very enthusiastic about having a well known professor with the hands-off approach . To answer the question about either approach fostering independence , I believe the hands-off approach leads to much larger independence as a researcher , but the coworker approach may lead to a much better work ethic ( mirroring the professor ) , which is tremendously important in science . It seems to me that students have a harder time successfully completing research ( asking the right question , having the right insights , etc. ) than being independent . Therefore I believe that student/advisor relationship does not need to promote " independence " in any substantial way .
end question
start question
Why is there such variation in PhD length internationally ?
In addition to @aeismail 's points , in the U.S. the undergrad degree ( B.S. or B.A. ) in math is typically rather thin , due to " breadth " requirements , so a year or two of a PhD program is spent catching up , in comparison to most other educational systems in which specialization occurs earlier ( and perhaps high school math education is more intense ) . Some decades ago , it was the style in elite places in the U.S. to have people finish a PhD degree as quickly as possible , often in three years , as proof of ... something . This was plausible under the hypothesis that students at such places had an unusually good background . In fact , given the way professional mathematics has evolved , spending more time learning things and maturing before hitting the job market may be wise . In any case , no one is creating artificial obstacles to any student 's quick graduation ! In my current institution , there really are no " required courses " , in the sense that there are some modest proficiency exams in standard material that need to be passed , and courses help prepare for those , or can substitute for proficiency exams to some extent . Thus , a well-prepared student can " test out " of requirements . One underlying problem seems to be that people take as much time as is allowed , so if it is understood that one may take six years " if necessary " , then most people plan to use up that time . Not that they 're " forced to " or " kept from graduating earlier " . And then there 's the reasonable fear of facing the job market that leads to " avoidance " . I would claim that " having to teach " is not a serious impediment to quick graduation . However , its relatively immediate gratification can seduce people away from the far-less-immediate gratification of research and study .
As a disclaimer , I have not been in this exact situation : in my field ( mathematics ) there are few conference papers , and the number of journals with strict length requirements is small enough that I have never reviewed a paper which violated the requirements . Nevertheless : In my experience it is customary in academic and professional contexts that if you submit something that does not adhere to the rules of submission , then you should expect that your submission will be rejected for that reason alone . Now it may be the case that rather than definitively rejecting your submission you are told , " Hey , please fix X so that your submission can be considered " ... and it may not . There is much talk of grant applications that are rejected because something in the fine print of the submission rules was not followed . In your case , you have noticed that one of the submission requirements has been violated , apparently in a nontrivial way ( " by more than 10 % " ) . In my opinion your clearest ethical obligation is to convey this knowledge to the editors . It is really unfair if the requirement gets completely ignored and the paper gets published anyway whereas some other authors are either getting dinged for not following the same rules or are working much harder ( and perhaps , trading on the quality of their paper ) in order to follow them . So I think your first step should be to point this out to the editors . If you like , you can convey your willingness to look at a new version in a timely manner . You could even say that you are reading the version that you already have and are willing to work on a report under the assumption that the authors will later submit a version which is essentially the same but meets the length requirements . But I think that 's about as far as you can go . If the submission really is permanently rejected based on the length then the authors will resubmit to another conference/journal and they 'll get their feedback at that time ( possibly even from you ! ) . Viewing the fact that you received the paper and are not at this time writing a report on it to the authors as some kind of disservice to them is probably the wrong way to view it : this is really part of the usual business of academic refereeing . Added : As long as you point out the failure to meet the length requirement , I certainly see no ethical problem with passing on whatever evaluation of the paper you want . In fact , when communicating with the editors if you think that the paper is otherwise very strong then it would be useful to say that . However , it seems to me that it is possible that the editors might decide that since the length requirements have been violated the paper will be rejected and the authors will not receive a referee report . Thus your careful comments are not guaranteed to be conveyed to the authors . This seems like a good argument for checking in with the editors before writing a full-blown report .
It is not clear how to judge the " size " of a thesis ( page length or word count is probably not very good ) , but one can clearly do too much research for a Masters or Doctorate . That said a factor of two difference is not really that big since there is always going to be a healthy overlap between the " largest " Master thesis and the " smallest " PhD thesis . If your Masters thesis is larger than the average PhD thesis and larger than the vast majority of Masters theses , then it is possibly too large . As a student you need to be asking yourself why you are getting the qualification . Most students put in much more work than that which is required to simply graduate . You should make sure you push your supervisor to help you achieve your goals .
Suppose , a PhD student is either introvert or bad in interpersonal communications or both . Would he find any trouble ? All of us , in academia and outside of it , are better at some things and less good at other things . People who are very poor at interpersonal relationships are often astonishingly good at many things . To be successful , one tries to exploit one 's talents while at the same time overcoming or learning to work around one 's deficiencies , or even turning one 's worst liabilities into assets in some surprising way ( e.g. , a comedian making a career out of making fun of themselves for being a neurotic slob with bad habits ) . Some people have even become famous for completely overcoming a significant adversity in the form of a physical or mental disability that stood in their way of becoming successful at something . The case of <URL> is one example from sports that comes to mind ( notwithstanding his later downfall into infamy by being convicted of the murder of his girlfriend ) , and there are many other examples . In the context of academia , unquestionably the most famous person who can be cited as an example in connection with your question is <URL> . I saw her speak a few years ago when she came to my university , and she is a remarkable and awe-inspiring woman . I could n't begin to give a good description of how amazing she is , so I recommend checking out her books , or watching the movie ( starring Claire Danes ) made about her . Suffice it to say that she grew up with autism , and having a fairly extreme case of being " either introvert or bad in interpersonal communications or both " , and yet became a stunningly successful animal scientist ( her main job is as a professor at Colorado State University ) . She is a great inspiration to many people who are either on the autism spectrum or are just extremely introverted or different from what is thought to be " normal " in some other way , and part of her advocacy is in convincing such people and their families that they are often capable of achieving a lot more than the society around them assumes . Bottom line : if Temple Grandin could succeed , so can the PhD student you are asking about . And besides , many other less famous people in academia are both introverted and not especially good at interpersonal communications , and become very successful anyway . I 'm not saying it 's necessarily a good thing to be , and it may make sense for your friend to work on getting better at those things , but I absolutely would n't assume that it will be a career-killing problem .
One alternative that 's been gaining momentum in actual classroom use is standards-based grading ( SBG ) : <URL> In SBG , the instructor establishes a list of milestones that students are expected to attain throughout the course . The students then can provide evidence of any sort -- within parameters set by the instructor -- that prove they have met the standard . Student evidence of attainment of a standard is marked on a scale usually from 0 to 4 ( unacceptable , novice , progressing , acceptable , and mastery -- or something like this ) and grades are assigned at the end of the semester based on how many of the milestones have been met at " Acceptable " level or above . For example , in calculus , one standard might be " Take the derivative of a second-degree polynomial using the limit definition " . A student might show that they know this by doing a problem on a standard timed test . But maybe they do n't have it down as well as they should , and on the test their work is marked as a 2 out of 4 ( progressing ; maybe they got the definition right but did some of the resulting algebra wrong ) . This is n't the end of the story . Later in the course , the student can show evidence again that they 've learned what they need to learn -- for example , they can schedule time in office hours to come work a problem or two to show you they 've met the standard . Or maybe take a short quiz in class , or work a problem during unstructured group work time in class meetings , or whatever avenue the instructor allows . The point of SBG is that we want to assess students based on what they know , and give them multiple ways to show that they know it . SBG can therefore be a superset of traditional timed testing -- students that do well in timed situations will do fine in SBG , but students who struggle with timed testing can have multiple chances to get their act together , and as long as they can prove they 've mastered the material by the end of the course , that is what matters . I do n't personally practice SBG but I would like to . I 'd suggest this blog post by my colleague Jon Hasenbank who is a big SBG proponent : <URL>
I can speak from personal experience . I have a math Ph.D. on a topic with absolutely no real world applications , I work in industry , and my job title is actually " Senior Research Expert " . So yes , there are research careers in industry . And while I wo n't get rich off it , I ca n't complain about the remuneration . However , ( almost ) nobody in industry will pay you for thinking about stuff , going to conferences and writing papers . My research is extremely applied , and I am very much constrained by a ) what customers will pay for and b ) what is feasible given our code base and software architecture . I simply ca n't go off on a tangent and argue that a particular algorithm is very elegant , if it is not implementable in a reasonable amount of time or nobody will buy it . Depending on your Ph.D. topic , be prepared to change fields . I used to do something like discrete optimization - now I do statistics and time series analysis . While I personally do n't code ( which the developers are very happy about ) , I work closely with the developers that actually turn what I thought up into software . Interpersonal skills and the ability to fit into a team and a software development process ( Scrum ) are much more important here than in academia . Research mathematicians are rare , and few people understand what I do and why I 'm paid . It took a long time and some very fortuitous circumstances for me to demonstrate that I do add value to the company , and I was lucky to keep my research job when my company was acquired - my new employer really does n't have research positions as such , so I had to justify why I should keep my niche . Finally , there are about five other originally pure mathematicians in the team I work with , two of them with Ph.D. s. None of them do anything that could be called " research " . They develop software or do analytics . Summarizing : yes , there are math research careers in industry . They are few and far between . Be prepared for an uphill battle , to change fields , to do what needs to be done .
Just to put what 's already in the comments into an answer : Yes , you should convey the information you 've told us to the hiring faculty . If you 've gotten a campus interview for a faculty position , they are already extremely interested and satisfied with your on-paper qualifications . Final decisions are often strongly motivated by who they think will take the offer and who they think will stick around , happily and productively , in the job . You list several things that would earn you lots of points on that score , and since the hiring faculty can not and should not ask too many questions about your personal life , the way to make that information known is to tell them so explicitly . However , No , you should not put that information in as a slide . Your talk should be about your professional work . Throwing in " I 'd like it here ! Hire me !! " while people are listening to your work is jarring and shows ( I think ) just a soupçon of poor judgment . I assume that your on-campus interview is structured so that anyone who is involved in hiring you has multiple opportunities to talk to you outside of the context of your job talk . If so , then I would n't even bring it up at all in your talk , except possibly as an ice-breaker at the beginning or a parting shot at the very end .
It 's really a judgment call ... some people consider that more references is good , because it gives the reader a wider perspective into the issue , and some people consider it a bad practice ( in old times because it wasted paper , but nowadays mainly because it obscures the more valuable information inside a long wall of text ) . I have , as a reviewer , sometimes asked authors to cut down on the number of references , so it is certainly an acceptable practice . Here are some factors you may consider when making the decision : Does each individual reference bring something to the paper , i.e. is used to back up a fact , idea , or to give credit for a specific ( and relevant ) new idea that it introduced ? Are references cited in block ? I tend to consider it is very bad practice : A series of recent experiments have shown systematically that current human-powered aircrafts are not suitable for mass transportation [ refs . 9 -- 21 ] Each paper ( or group of two or three papers , at the very most ) should be used with regards to a specific point in the discussion . Somewhat disguised form of the earlier : are long lists of claims and references justified ? Sometimes many citations are used as " examples " , where a few would suffice . Could some of the citations be replaced by one or two reviews on the topic ? Are the work cited really the seminal work on each topic/idea/experiment , or are there also less " worthy " works cited ? Finally , it is true that there are some unethical practices that can lead to inflated number of citations . Excessive self-citation is certainly one , but there are others . For example , some authors cite very widely papers from all groups in their field , even when it is not really warranted , in an effort to help their chances at peer review : the idea is that the reviewer is less likely to be harsh to a manuscript that cites 5 of her own papers . And in conclusion , if you believe that self-citation was the motivation , there is nothing wrong with reporting your doubts to the editor .
These types of publishers are often called vanity presses and as discussed in this <URL> they have limited value . The press you are referring to , and why I think your question is unique , is : They want me to transfer exclusive rights to publishing my thesis , as a book . That is a terrifying thought . That likely means you would be unable to ( re ) publish any aspect of your thesis as an article and may not even be able to use images in presentations . Your university and/or funder may also impose restrictions on giving away exclusive rights .
Research is not just the most important aspect of any PhD program worth the name ; it 's the entire point . Everything you do as part of the program ( teaching duties aside ) is to prepare you for a career as a researcher . So getting a PhD without any intention of putting this research training to use would be like spending years as a baking apprentice without any intention of becoming a baker : maybe not a complete waste if you really like baking ( but not enough to make it a career ? ) , but almost inarguably not the best use of your time . Lots of people get PhDs and do n't become researchers , but if these people had known beforehand what industry they would end up in , odds are they could have gotten a better jump start on their career by getting a Master 's degree focused on that industry and entering the workforce after one or two years ( rather than 5 + for the PhD ) . There are exceptions to this principle , but they are relatively uncommon , and usually involve industry jobs that somewhat resemble research anyway . I can think of only two other justifications for getting a PhD : learning for learning 's sake , and prestige . The former is a noble goal , but if all you want to do is learn without contributing to the body of knowledge in your field , this is contrary to the spirit of ( good ) PhD programs as stated above . Furthermore , you can learn all you want in your free time without entering a PhD program . Find out what the standard graduate-level textbooks are in your field , and work through them . If your knowledge gets up to the research level in a particular topic , you can start reading recent research articles . ( Your local library will likely have access . ) As for prestige , this may be subjective , but spending five years of your life for a piece of paper is unlikely to be satisfying in the long run . And , speaking as someone who has a PhD , you 'll soon learn that most people will not really want to address you as " Doctor . " Having said all that , if you do like ( or think you would like ) research , but are put off solely by the expected competition and stress , I urge you to be more open-minded . Academia is certainly competitive and stressful , but so are most careers worth having .
The LaTex source code contains the command , which inserts the current date at the time of compilation . That is , the PDF is probably last regenerated in 2013 . The arXiv submission history gives a more reliable date .
Every job position is it 's own little economy , and to understand it fully we basically need a wide-ranging understanding of economics . But we can at least hit the most obvious and easily understandable points , so long as we are clear that each position is distinct and unique in it 's own right . Let 's say you need to hire a Professor of Basket-Weave Engineering . How much do you pay them ? Well , I say we offer to pay them a $ 1 . Ah , but that would be below minimum wage requirements generally , so that 'd be illegal ... ok , let 's pay them $ 20,000 a year then . Why pay them any more ? Well , in short , we have a number of problems : 1 ) Quality of candidates - the best in the field just are n't willing to work for so little , they likely wo n't even apply even if they were rich because such a low salary indicates a lack of respect and seriousness of the position . So you likely wo n't get your desired quality of candidate . 2 ) Quantity of candidates - with such little pay you probably just wo n't get enough qualified candidates to seriously interview . 3 ) Actual acceptance - even if you get enough good candidates and make an offer , there is a good chance they wo n't accept at all because they have better offers . 4 ) Perception - national rankings and general public perception can be involved . Do you want to become known as the institution with McProfessors who are paid in beans ? 5 ) Turn over - even if you get good people to join , they will likely leave when they get a drastically better offer . Even the most die-hard of loyalists will have trouble turning down an offer that 's 4-10 times the salary they get now . But why are similar positions paid so differently ? Each of the simple 5 conditions I outlined above vary by individual position . A Computer Engineering professor is just not the same as a Chemical Engineer - they are both engineers , but they have very different market factors involved . Let 's say they start off the same though , and you are able to hire and retain both at the same rate of $ 50,000 a year . Now let 's say IBM wants to put someone in charge of a next-generation computing research lab - will they want a Computer Engineer or a Chemical Engineer ? I think it 's pretty clear that they may very well have a preference for one particular type of engineer . The research produced could earn them billions , so they 'd be happy to pay easily $ 500,000 a year for the right candidate . Not to be outdone , Intel , Microsoft , Google , Oracle , and a dozen other big-name computer companies also want the same kind of candidate , and all are willing to pay the same . Now you have a problem . If you want to hire a Chemical Engineer , nothing has changed - $ 50k seems to get people just fine . But if you want to hire a Computer Engineer , you are now effectively competing with dozens of companies willing to pay 10 times what you pay . One method of dealing with this is to ignore it . Sure , you 'll lose the most money-motivated or even the best candidates to companies , but you 'll still be able to get what you want . But what if more and more companies want computer engineers ? What if it gets to be that there 's a shortage of above-average candidates , and so industry will throw stupid amounts of money at any computer engineer who seems even vaguely above-average ? You 'll be left with only below-average engineers or ones who are outright hostile towards industry . If you expect to get grant money and support from industry partners , you are going to be in trouble either way . So it might turn out that it easily makes sense to pay $ 200,000 a year to get a Computer Engineer ( because , frankly , you have no real other choice anymore ) , but why would you pay any more for a Chemical Engineer ? Their market has n't changed any , so why waste money ? <URL> But now we also realize something interesting . While the tech companies prefer computer engineers , they realize that IT engineers have similar knowledge and work almost just as well . They might still prefer computer engineers , but with less demand or less pay they will make use of them too ( even if they were still working slightly outside their field ! ) . Now you will find , thanks to the concept of substitutes , that other fields are being effected by the tech bidding wars . Pretty soon you 'll be paying $ 150,000 for IT engineers . But what if tech companies realize that , sure they prefer the specialized knowledge of computing and IT people , but research is research - why not identity suitably brilliant Chemical Engineering PhDs and hire them ? Sure it might take them a little longer to get up to speed in the field , but whatever - they may still prefer other fields , but they 'll take what they can get . Next thing you know within a few years you went from paying everyone $ 50k to having to pay no less than $ 200k for a Computer Engineer , $ 150k for an IT Engineer , and $ 100k for a Chemical Engineer - minimum ! Any less and all the really desirable candidates pass your institution over with ease as the other offers they get
There is often a substantial delay between when the author finishes a paper and when the paper is actually published . The author may not be totally aware of the publishing date . This is why the authors do not include the date . The date is generally found in/on the book/proceedings that the paper is published in . This is the date that should be used for referencing a paper .
Because of its anonymity , nobody is ultimately responsible for the veracity of the information . This is one major point which makes Wikipedia vulnerable and of limited sustainable reference value . That is not to say that there are not excellent entries there . Unlike free software , there is no easy way to say that the article is wrong on less well-understood or contentious topics . An authored article at least has someone with a reputation to lose on the producing end of the text . Plus , if you know the reputation of the author , you can judge how far you want to follow him/her .
I challenge your contention that these things are spelled incorrectly . When you write ' Toys " R " Us ' you are correctly spelling a proper noun . Names are signifiers , and the entity who controls the name controls how it is correctly spelled . I would not have told my high school friend whose last name was " Tomson " that his name was spelled wrong just because for most people it was spelled " Thompson . " Likewise , ' Toys " R " Us ' has chosen a particular spelling for its title , and that 's the correct name . So now comes the question of how to communicate such titles , and here , I see four basic cases : Just use it as written , and count on people to understand : not great with Toys " R " Us since quotes are semantically loaded , but fine for a well-understood " misspelling " like <URL> . Often , there are commonly used variants that are simpler . If you say Toys R Us , people will know what you are talking about even without the quotes , so its OK . Same with <URL> . If you say Toys Are Us , however , you 've gone a step too far and " corrected " the name into something incorrect . Put it in quotes , like I did in the first paragraph : ' Toys " R " Us ' ( here I made the unusual choice of single quotes because of the presence of double quotes in the name ) . If you think it is still strange enough that you think people will think you misspelled it , you can add [ sic ] afterwards , as in " Tomson [ sic ] " I do n't like italics , as a solution , personally , since I generally see italics used for emphasis or for definition , and neither is the case here .
Aside from the programs/universities mentioned in <URL> which Zenon gave in a comment , it appears that you may need to tweak a molecular gastronomy program to fit your interests . The Italian <URL> looks to have several programs that might fit your desired focus .
In my experience in the US , I have never seen any sort of decision letter for an application ( whether for Ph.D. or any position ) that gives reasons for the decision . It may be different in other countries , but in the US at least , there are many good reasons to never give such information formally . The actual decision-making process is never as clean and clear-cut as anybody wants it to be , and with the limited information available in applications and even interviews , there are going to be cases where people make mistakes or make good decisions for unclear or hard to state reasons . Lots of good people may get turned down for reasons having nothing to do with them , such as just having too many good candidates in the same area . If an institution gives real reasons in an official statement ( as opposed to something meaningless and bland like " not an appropriate fit at this time " ) , then it is opening up the door for all sorts of potential problems and disputes , not to mention potential legal liability if something could be construed as relating to a protected category such as gender , age , religion , or ethnicity . They also have to worry about seriously unbalanced people who may take it as a personal insult and begin some sort of stalking or harassment campaign ( it happens ! ) . Not giving reasons may feel unsatisfying and cowardly , but it is an easy and safe path for an institution , and as such is generally official policy . Now , if you have an informal trusted relationship with somebody who was involved in the decision process , then it is sometimes possible to get a strictly unofficial take on what may have happened . You might learn things you did n't want to know about how sausage is made , however .
I just participated in a NASA grant-writing workshop . This question came up there , too . The following rules apply for both NASA grants and for NSF grants . ( I 'm sure there are differences , but at least what I 'm writing is the same for both . ) Can the grant be transferred from one institution to another ? Yes . Check out <URL> which describes NSF 's grant policy : Contracting or Transferring the Project Effort ( Subawards ) a. Excluding the procurement of items such as commercially available supplies , materials , equipment or general support services allowable under the grant , no significant part of the research or substantive effort under an NSF grant may be contracted or otherwise transferred to another organization without prior NSF authorization . The intent to enter into such arrangements should be disclosed in the proposal submission . b . If it becomes necessary to contract or otherwise transfer a significant part of the research or substantive effort after a grant has been made , the grantee shall submit , at a minimum : ( i ) a clear description of the work to be performed ; ( ii ) the basis for selection of the subawardee ( except for collaborative/joint arrangements5 ) ; and ( iii ) a separate budget for each subaward . The request must be submitted electronically , and NSF authorization will be indicated by an amendment to the grant signed by the Grants and Agreements Officer . The NSF grant conditions will identify which articles flow-down to subawardees . c. Procurements under NSF grants are also subject to AAG Chapter V.C and OMB Circular A-110 Sections .41 through .48 . ( 2 CFR § 215.41-48 ) The grant is awarded to your institution , not to you . Because of this , your institution would choose to do one of the following : Nominate somebody ( e.g. a Co-I ) to take over when you leave Terminate the grant outright Initiate the grant transfer process ( if certain criteria are met , and both institutions agree ... ) According to the NASA VIP leading the workshop , transfers between US institutions happen , though they are rare . Either way , if you plan to do this , you should contact all involved parties : your current institution , the destination institution , and your program officer/manager ( your designated NSF/NASA contact person ) for the grant . Can it be transferred to an international institution ? No . As indicated in 3.c above , <URL> indicates that funds can be sent under the following condition ( among others ) : ( i ) grantee is not an individual or a foreign institution ; Since both NASA and the NSF are government organizations , they are prohibited from funding foreign institutions . There are additional rules for certain countries , at least for NASA : if applying for a NASA grant , you ca n't have any affiliations with a Chinese institution via the <URL> .
It 's not necessarily crazy for academia.edu to ask for these things ( although , as I say below , I certainly do n't think users should agree to these terms ) . I imagine their lawyers advised them to use an agreement that covers all possible use cases as their business model evolves . For example , if they decided to charge their users membership fees , and only users who paid the fees got access to the site and could view profiles and download papers , then that would be tantamount to selling the papers and other user data ( so they could n't do it unless they had permission to sell this content ) . Posting ads on their web pages could be considered a form of commercial exploitation of the data , so they want to make sure they can do it . They might someday want to change file formats , such as converting PDFs into future super-PDF formats , and having permission to modify content submitted by users guarantees that they could do this . Even if they intend to take things down upon receiving requests from users , having irrevocable permission to post them means users can not sue them for failing to take them down quickly enough . Basically , this agreement says they can do anything they want , which is obviously very convenient for them . For comparison , Harvard 's <URL> also retains very broad rights ( although not the right to sell papers for a profit ) . I believe the motivation is that universities can be trusted , and it 's better for them to retain more rights than fewer , in case they need them somday . See the notes to line 7 in the model policy for more discussion of this point . Of course , the difference is that academia.edu is a commercial web site , and even if they are trustworthy now , they might become less so in the future or be bought by someone untrustworthy . On the other hand , even if it 's not crazy for the site to ask for these rights , it 's certainly crazy for users to agree ! I 'm amazed that these terms of service are being used , and I assume just about nobody using the site has actually read them and understood that they are permanently granting the right to sell arbitrarily modified versions of their papers . I hope you send them a complaint , as well as publicizing this on the internet , because they need to change these terms as soon as possible . In addition to being completely unreasonable , they clearly conflict with a large majority of copyright agreements for papers , as you point out .
There are a few sites that do this : <URL> <URL> . <URL> . Of these , I think SciRev is the most active , but I 'm not certain about this . That said , in my experience , the actual rating information on these is not of much value . Uptake is pretty slow , and most of the reviews I 've seem to just very high marks indiscriminately . As a result , you ca n't infer too much from the tiny sample sizes available . The information about time to result , review quality , etc. might be useful in principle , but in practice again you 've got tiny sample sizes and probably a selection bias as well in terms of who submits reviews -- though I do n't know which way this selection bias would go . Nature wrote a <URL> ( not paywalled ) about these sites in early 2015 .
end question
start question
When you reference an article , is it always expected that you have actually read it ?
Let me answer your question by means of an example . In my on-going research I am using a notion called " Schlichting completion " which is originated from a paper written in German by a mathematician called Schlichting . I ca n't read German , but using a dictionary , I 've found some clues about this notion in his paper . So I cited this paper , even though I have only read about one page of it . The reason is sometimes we have to cite a paper , because some fundamental notion has originated from that paper and we have to give credit to the person who invented that notion . Other reasons for citing papers are : They have a nice review of the subject and/or contain relatively a comprehensive list of references related to the work . They have done some parallel or complementary works . They have some results which are used in my papers . They contain reasons which motivate my work . For example , they ask or suggest a problem which is addressed in my work . They give more examples , applications and/or ideas related to my work . etc. . So you do not have to read all contents of a paper before citing it . But make sure it is relevant , useful , some how necessary , interesting and/or important paper with respect to the work you are presenting in your paper . As a final remark , it is always nice to point out where in the paper you are citing is related to the discussion , for example specify the theorem number , the page number , etc. .
The other answers already explain that no , you should n't be doing research all the time , with no time for breaks , relaxation and other interests . All this is quite correct . However , I am a bit unsure whether the stark dichotomy " all research all the time " versus " a few hours in the morning " is really helpful here . Maybe an answer to the following question is more helpful : Is doing a Ph.D. right for you if you plan on doing it as a 9-5 job , 40 hours per week ? And there , I would be a bit more careful . Yes , there are people who can do a Ph.D. like a " normal job " , at their desk at 9am sharp and dropping their pencils at 5pm . It is possible . However , my personal impression is that these people will avoid the typical Ph.D. burnout , but they will likely not be top performers . So my answer to the modified question above is : You will probably do fine with a 40 hour workweek , if you make sure to stay self-motivated . However , you should think deeply about just why you want to do a Ph.D. . . because unless you are uncommonly brilliant , you will likely not be productive enough to stay in academia and compete with people who routinely put in 50-60 hours per week . You may want to think about leaving academe with the Ph.D. and going into industry . Note that I am not saying " 40 hour Ph.D. students " are lazy . However , if you ca n't work up the level of passion and commitment to your topic that makes you want to put in 50-60 hours per week often , then there will likely be someone else , and that someone else will have more publications five or ten years down the road .
Typically this would be okay , because the poster is not published . If in doubt , contact the PC chair of the conference to make sure .
Yes . A review is normally a job performed by somebody at the request of a journal editor for your benefit . Hence the review is not yours per se to do as you please although you have received it to improve your manuscript . The review is basically a communication between two persons , albeit through an intermediary . Thus posting somebody 's comments without asking for permission is similar to publishing somebody 's private letters online without asking . It is not strictly illegal as I can see it but it is inappropriate . If reviews are done in an open system , they are public and then the problem is a non-issue . Such reviews , if one wants to couple them to a paper or manuscript online , can , and probably should , be linked anyway . As a side point , some journals only allow you to post pre-review versions of your manuscripts online . Revised manuscripts then involve the journal 's " services " and are apparently seen as covered by the publisher 's copyright rules , at least until they are rejected . This is not something I find appealing , it is just the case and one needs to take a close look to the agreement entered when submitting a manuscript .
If you feel that A is sufficiently familiar with your work and your expertise and can comment upon those responsibly , then it is not inappropriate to ask him for a reference letter . Your perception of your relationship maybe , however , different from his . And if that is the case he will probably politely turn you down ( he is too busy , he does not feel comfortable doing it , etc. ) in which case do n't take it personally and do n't hold it against him , and certainly do n't force the matter . Having a weak letter at times is worse than not having one at all . If the request was made to a complete stranger , it is possible that person may develop a bad impression due to this request out of the blue . But since you have been in correspondence with A , the worst that can happen really is that he would say ' no ' . To put in a personal perspective : I have had an experience where an expert in the field , who has read some of my papers , and who has invited me for seminars ( and hence whom I have personally met ) , turn down a request for a reference letter because he feel he is not in a position to write me an extremely strong letter . I have had also an experience where an expert in the field agreed to write me a reference letter based on having read some of my papers and having conversed with some of my co-authors . We only had e-mail and Skype discussions after he agreed to write the letter and want to find out more about me and my interests .
When you cite an article it does not mean that your work stands on the cited article in its entirety but rather it might be a particular result , an interpretation or an interesting question someone else has come up with before you . Let look at it like this : you ( Y ) cite a finding ( f1 ) by a person/group in some paper ( P1 ) , who in turn cites another finding ( f2 ) some other person/group in some paper ( P2 ) . later turns out that something in P2 does not add up and the paper gets retracted . The interesting question is whether or not the mistake or error etc in P2 is related to your work . If : scientific grounds for f2 is still valid despite the error that causes the retraction , or your f1 is independent of f2 then you are essentially safe , since the reasons for retraction does not reflect on your work/findings . In other words , you have not built your work on erroneous foundation . That beings said , I can only assume that citing a retracted paper is n't particularly nice , and if you can avoid it ( if someone else has also mentioned that same finding without going through the retracted paper ) then it 's probably better . Hope this was n't all too convoluted . . I had to rewrite it a couple of times already :)
Thank you for your question . My name is Jasper Simons and I work for Thomson Reuters , the organization behind ScholarOne . Our platform is configured by our publishers as they service their authors and editors . Publishers seek to maximize the value they offer to their journals , their editors and their authors through specific configurations of the ScholarOne peer-review workflow . This does n't address your concern , but I hope that it sheds some light on the reasoning behind the multiple login requirements for authors . In short , there is one ScholarOne platform but there are many site configurations .
I would put the logo of the funding agency ( NSF , NASA , etc. ) and the logo of the university where you are doing this research . If your home university is n't involved in any way , then you 're probably fine excluding it .
Here is one rule of thumb : You should be sufficiently confident with the topic to be able to guide your student to success . This means in particular that you should know the topic in which the student is supposed to work in well enough such that : You are certain that the workload is manageable in the time outlined by the examination regulations . You know that there is enough low hanging fruit in the topic such that it is clear that even a mediocre student should be able to write a thesis that is good enough for the standards of your field and school . There are some types of results that a student may obtain during the thesis work that would suffice for the student to write a great thesis , possibly leading to a subsequent publication ( given interest by the student ) . You think that you can advise the student with the problems that you expect to occur in the scope of the project . You have sufficient time to actually advise the student and in particular have the time to read into the details of the subject in case the student needs some guidance on them . Depending on the field , it is debatable whether it is OK to hand out topics of which the advisor has comparably little knowledge , given that all requirements from the list above are fulfilled . Also , the list above focuses on the minimum requirements . Again , it is debatable whether satisfying all points on the list is enough already ( unless I forgot something important ) . As far as coming up with new thesis topics is concerned : probably everyone has their own approach for this . One way is to collect the ideas that you have in your own research into idea lists , and after some time filtering them by the criteria above .
A postprint is the final version that is given to the journal for copy editing and typesetting . It includes changes made in the refereeing process , but not the journal 's typesetting . It is often referred to also by the phrase " author 's final version " . In contrast , a preprint most specifically refers to a manuscript as it was before peer review . However , the term preprint is often used more generally ( for instance , when referring to a preprint server ) to refer to any version of the manuscript besides the journal 's final typeset copy . Thus it is common to find postprints on arxiv.org , which is commonly referred to as a preprint server . Postprints are mainly used as a way to provide <URL> . Many publishers allow authors to distribute postprints through their own website , an institutional website , or a preprint server . Many institutions ( e.g. <URL> ) assert a non-exclusive right to distribute postprints written by their employees , regardless of publishing agreements .
I also have a very common name ( usually quoted along the lines of " Smith , J. " ) and despite the fact that I have worked and published with two different institutions there has never been a problem assigning all my papers to me personally ( ORCID and other system let you take your institution ( s ) into account ) . As long as there is n't a person with the same first and last name in your institution ( and even then , it usually a couple of clicks to rectify the situation and I am speaking of someone who had to contend with a Joan/John Smith situation ) . My university makes all researchers from post doc onwards keep a list of their publications on their official university homepage , so even google will associate my publications correctly . So if you come across a paper from my old affiliation you can get my current contact data from this . And honestly most subfields are specialised enough that people roughly know that John Smith at institution A is working on a certain topic ( because that 's what your group does ) and John Smith at institution B will probably not have published a particular paper . If people want to talk to your about your results , they will find you , even with a common name .
The answer is often that you submit an article , and the journal says " We might accept this if you can make it a brief communication , which means 1 table , and X words " . ( Where X is a relatively small number . Write the article and see if it naturally fits into their criterion for brief communication . If it does , submit it as such , if not , submit it as an article . The length of a ' real ' article depends on the journal , but I 've had a lot of papers rejected and this only happened once because the article was too short .
I really recommend that you start reading the Abstract , by that way you can get rid of some papers that would not be so valuable for your work . After that try to get a quick glimpse at the theoretical background , just to catch if there is some background that you are actually missing and you will need for understanding the article fully . Take your time to read the experimentation part and feel free to jump to the conclusions . Remember that you do not need to read some articles from the first page to the last page , except in some ocassions . There will be some sections that you can clearly jump e.g. the theoretical part , if you have the enough background .
I agree : most academic CVs do not have a festival of hyperlinks . I do n't see a problem with it , unless -- as @Taladris says -- the large amount of hyperlinking creates clutter in the document . For something like a CV , where the spacing on the page is highly adjustable , I would think that you could probably have even a highly hyperlinked CV and take a little care to make sure that it does not look too busy to the eye . I can tell you though why I do n't feel the need to hyperlink my CV ( and I imagine the reason holds more generally ) . It 's simple : I also have a webpage , and anything which appears on my CV which could get linked to also appears on my webpage . Further , the translation between the two is straightforward : I have a section of my CV listing papers , and I also have an immediately visible link to a subpage containing papers from <URL> ( which , as you can see , is no frills to say the least , but it seems to get the job done ) . Although I am certainly no expert on the visual display of information , webpage design ( you 'll know that immediately if you clicked on the above link ) or anything like that , it is my opinion that a webpage is a more natural medium to have clickable content than a CV . I think every young academic should have a professional webpage . If they do have one , I 'm not sure that a heavily hyperlinked CV is necessary , although again I see no harm in it .
Try these sites to search for a CrossRef DOI : <URL> or <URL>
If you are writing a research paper it is quite difficult not to have a question in some form . The purpose of the introduction is to set your study ( question/gap of knowledge or what have you ) in perspective , to narrow the focus down from a slightly bigger picture to the gap you are trying to fill or narrow even further with your study . Even if your paper is a review , you are doing a review for some specific purpose . So , you may be thinking too narrowly if you think of a question as a sentence with a question mark , the focus of your paper will be your research question , usually a gap in knowledge where you through your study takes our knowledge beyond the current limits .
Counterexamples notwithstanding , the practice certainly raises all sorts of questions about conflicts of interest : is the adviser providing unbiased advice , is the adviser unbiased in their assessment of the academic proficiency of the candidate , is the advisee independent to choose their research direction , etc. . In cases like this , nobody looks good -- people wonder about the judgment of the adviser , they wonder about the actual quality of the candidate if papers are jointly written , and they wonder about what 's going on in the department to let such things happen . As a consequence , people and departments are generally well advised not to let this happen , simply because the perception of a conflict of interest is oftentimes just as bad as the actuality of something improper happening .
In academia , one lists things related to accomplishments and dissemination of research in the CV . This typically includes things like papers or preprints , software , as well as presentations one gives . In particular , your list of presentations gives one piece of information into how active you are in your research community . So yes , assuming your poster presentations are academic/research related , it 's appropriate to put them in your CV , though in-class presentations are typically not included . General comments : a CV is different than a resume so there 's a lot of flexibility in what you include and how you format it . Still , there are some dos and do n'ts . You can find loads of example CVs online , but it might be most helpful for you to look at sample CVs of young researchers ( students , postdocs ) in your field for some models . Specific comments : there are different ways you can organize your presentations , but my suggestion is make a section titled presentations , and within that two subsections , one for oral presentations or " talks " and one for poster presentations . Then for each presentation , list the title , venue including conference name and date . E.g. From Cervantes to Swift , 33rd AEIOU Conference , University of Lillipilut , Mildendo , Lilliput , April 1 , 1726 .
It depends totally on your status , and what exactly this collaboration entails . You say " working as a staff under one professor " . If you 're on a short-term contract ( say , post-doc ) , then it 's probably not okay to do independent research on something completely different . You were hired on a project and it 's unlikely that you have any significant time left for something else . On the other hand , if this new collaboration is related to your project and you involve your professor in it , it is okay ( and he will welcome this initiative from which everyone involved benefits ) . To the above , there are a few exceptions : People who just arrived usually have some unfinished business with their previous institution , and they are given a bit more leeway in finishing it : revisions to make to papers on track for publication , conference attendance , etc. . People who are leaving due to their contract ending have to get involved with other projects to get a new job . They have to go fishing around , and this sometime requires a bit of extra work . Finally , if your activity on the side is quite unrelated to your main job , and you manage to do it on your own time without prejudice to your employer , you may do so . Some people write books , some get involved in open source software unrelated to their employment , etc. . If you 're working as an longer-term staff researcher in someone 's group , then it is expected that they respect your academic freedom . To a reasonable extent , you are free to engage in new collaborations with other people , and not necessarily involve your group leader .
Writing as an Administrator : It is appropriate to use the title when you are a graduate , ie , when the degree is conferred either in notice by letter or by ceremony ( which ever comes first ) . Prior to that your status is that of a graduand . If you 've been using the work-title PhD Candidate you might consider changing to PhD Graduand to indicate this status : that you 're awaiting conferral but you 've met the substantive criteria for fulfillment of your degree . Additional source : <URL> . Congratulations by the way !
end question
start question
How to review papers for conferences without comparing/contrasting each other ?
The goal is to score the papers on their own merits , not to rank them . There are some conferences where there are ranking systems , usually among the scored papers and done by the committee , but just like journal papers , it 's possible to evaluate a paper on its own merits . For example , if there was a paper that was technically the " Best of a bad lot " , but still contained massive numbers of errors , poor writing , unintelligible graphics , etc. , knowing the context is n't necessarily helpful , they 're all bad papers . Looking at their scoring metric , each one of these can be described in manner consistent with not knowing other papers : reject : This abstract is n't suitable for the venue , is just outright poor quality , etc. and is beyond salvaging . weak reject : This abstract is n't pathologically flawed , but would need a considerable amount of work to be appropriate for the venue . neutral : The " I suppose " category . Filler abstracts that could use a bit of polish , or ones that failed to rouse much of a strong feeling either way . weak accept : Promising submissions that are appropriate for the venue . While not inherently flawed , there 's probably improvements they could make to . accept : " I would like to see this accepted " It 's possible for you to get two outstanding papers and simply both think they should be accepted . Or two papers that should be rejected flat out . And things in between . Trying to rank every submission to a conference would be a massive effort , and is still somewhat arbitrary , as your ranking scheme is not inherently an objective one . Nor are you necessarily guaranteed to be qualified to rank each and every submission . You should take into account the nature of the conference itself - for example , there are some conferences where I am considerably more lenient than I am for others , the same way there are journals where I use somewhat stricter criteria . And yes , a strict reviewer could torpedo otherwise worthwhile papers , but that 's why many groups use more than one reviewer , and the probability of any one reviewer being a sufficiently strict reviewer as to meaningfully start harming the overall peer review process is pretty small .
The distinction between a conference one attends and a conference one is invited to speak at is relevant at all levels of one 's career in math . If you do n't give a talk , the distinction between a conference you attend simply by registering and a conference you attend by invitation only or only if accepted ( like workshops at <URL> , <URL> , or <URL> ) usually is n't particularly important . However , for an undergraduate to have been specifically invited to a invitation-only conference is rather unusual , and might indicate that you have a good reputation among senior mathematicians in the field , certainly a plus if applying to graduate school . If so , by far the most important way to communicate this in your file is by getting a letter of recommendation from those senior mathematicians . But it ca n't hurt to indicate it in your CV as well ; in your " Conferences attended " section , just add a parenthetical " ( invitation-only ) " to the relevant entries . But let me reiterate that what you put on your CV is 100 times less important than getting a strong recommendation letter from senior mathematicians who know you well and think highly of your potential for research .
Never hold your own recommendation letter ( looks unethical ) , let your current lecturers send the recommendation letter to the universities directly ( via email for example ) , that you applied for . Most universities , ask for two recommendation letters , by asking the information of the lecturers ( e.g. , email , address , phone , etc. ) who do that for you . So the recommendation letters will be sent by your lecturers ( e.g. , email , mail , online form , etc. ) to the universities you applied for ; without you seeing/holding the letter .
I know of exactly one peer-reviewed research paper with no references at all . Mark H. Overmars and Emo Welzl . <URL> . Proceedings of the [ First Annual ] Symposium on Computational Geometry , 316 -- 321 , 1985 . Here is a screenshot of the references section : <URL> According to <URL> , this paper has been cited 29 times . So yes , it is possible , for the right value of " ground-breaking " , but extremely rare .
( This answer is adapted from my comment below Marc Cleason 's answer ) In the spirit of the pledge , this professor could put a banner saying in substance " I do not review for Elsevier journal , so if you are an author hoping for me to review your paper , submit to other publisher 's journals " . One important thing about such a pledge is that it is useless if it is silent ; this is an initial observation by Tim Gowers that lead to the pledge . Now that 14000 people have signed it , each one of them is somewhat hidden in the crowd , so making this kind of statements on one 's web page is a way to make one 's pledge more public , and to give the movement some momentum . Here , a prominent professor has also the possibility to influence the submissions of his or her colleagues , which is a good bonus .
Asking your advisor , as suggested by @NateEldredge , is a good first step and many advisors will be able to help you . In some cases , though , your advisor may be unfamiliar , may just not publish much any more ( that was the case for my advisor ) , or may not be able to effectively help for other reasons . If this is the case , then I would suggest two other methods for figuring out where to send your papers : Look at the papers that have been published in previous years , and see how their scope and quality compares to yours . Aim high , and see what kind of feedback you get back from the reviewers . The worst that happens is that they reject your paper .
Some journals implement a double-blind reviewing process , meaning that the reviewers are not aware that the authors are from academia or not , and only the scientific content is judged . That being said , it 's worth mentioning that it would be hard for someone without a proper " paper-writing " training ( such as the one one can acquire in academia ) , to produce a paper that would be accepted by reviewers . Some general structure is expected , such as related Works , critical discussion , rigorous methodology , and I would say that without that , it would be hard to get the paper published ( I have myself rejected papers from graduate students , not because the idea itself was bad , but because the structure and the presentation were not meeting the standards one could expect for a scientific publication ) . EDIT : After reformulation of the question , assuming that the quality of the paper makes it indistinguishable from any other paper , then , no , as far as I know , there is no general policy regarding the official affiliation of the author ( s ) . For instance , in Computer Science , it 's not rare to see papers published by people working in a " normal " company ( i.e. not a research company ) , typically on some concrete problems/solutions they have found . Some people even keep publishing after starting their own startup , and therefore the affiliation is something like " MyCompanyWeb2 .0 " .
Each electronic manuscript handling system typically has a set time frame for each part of the review-revisions process . The systems have default values which , I would assume , are what most journals use . It is , however , possible to custom make the different time periods for each part of the process . 1 . Submitted to Journal : This usually does not involve a lot of time and a reasonable time frame might be depending on factors such as workload , time of year etc. . The step might involve inspection of the quality of the submitted material , but not necessarily . 2 . Editor Invited ( Conditional - this step may not occur ) : This may again be another and may be affected by workload etc. . 3 . With Editor : The main problem that occurs here is difficulty to assign reviewers . The editor may also be overloaded with work . The time frame is likely something like but will vary . 4 . Under Review : Each journal has a time frame and is what I am accustomed to in my field . Reviewers that accept reviews and never return them is a problem here . How quickly the editor tries to assign other reviewers to speed up the process will vary from person to person and journal to journal . 5 . Required Reviews Complete : I am not sure if you actually mean revisions here because typically the author gets about to revise the manuscript . This is another point where delays can occur but they are self-inflicted . 6 . Decision in Process : The decision process may require some time since the editor needs to read the revised manuscript and the revisions/rebuttal from the author to make a decision . In many cases there is cause for another round of reviews which would loop back to 4 and 5 . 7 . Completed -- Accept : 7 could be 6 if the manuscript gets accepted after one round ( rare in many circumstances ) . Once accepted , the manuscript goes to copy editing and type-setting . This may be a quick process depending on the resources provided by the publisher . Journals using LaTeX have the advantage of having print ready proofs basically at the turn of a switch . To sum up . Each of these steps can take various amounts of time depending on the working conditions at the journal as well as the expedience of reviewers and authors . I think the time frames I have outlined are reasonable but that does not mean all journals will be that quick ( or slow , depending on your view ) .
It sounds to me like he is just making sure that you will have other options if it turns out the school wo n't admit you with an outside advisor . I do n't think there 's any harm at all in telling the truth . If he wants you as a student , the fact you have other options should n't make a big difference to how much he is willing to help you in the admissions process . In fact , sometimes having other options can even make you more desirable , as it indicates other people/schools think you are valuable too . ( In my case , having other offers allowed me to negotiate a slightly better package at my top choice grad school . ) If you 're worried that he will be less interested in helping you with your application if he knows you are also looking elsewhere , you could always say that you have applied to/been offered place ( s ) elsewhere , but that the opportunity to work with him remains your top choice . Regardless of how you reply to him , however ( and as I said , I do n't see any reason not to tell the truth ) , I would say that it 's always a good idea to apply to a range of schools . Hopefully you will get in to the school you want and be able to work with him , but if the school has indicated there might be a problem with this ( even if you and the professor think they are wrong ) , you may want to have other options .
I was recently accepted to a MS program that is different from my undergrad and graduate training . In my personal statement I tried to relate my experience to the field I was pursuing . I had field research experience in public health , but I was applying for a MS in biology . I still used my research experience , but I focused on the general research skills that I developed , things that would be useful in the lab . I mentioned things that are universal to all research . I think if you convey passion and direction for the new field , you 'll be alright . It can be an advantage too . Think of ways you can incorporate your previous field if possible . If not , show them your maturity and passion . It seems like admissions committees can tell who is going through the motions and who is genuine . Make your voice heard .
As an applied mathematician , I like to go for the format [ Author1 , Author2 JST ' 99 ] , where " JST " is an abbreviation for the journal . I truncate longer author lists with et al , and add initials in some cases to reduce ambiguity [ Li RC , Guo CH , LAA ' 05 ] . With the help of a macro , I put the citations in square brackets ( following the LaTeX usage ) , in a different color ( dark grey ) and font ( / ) . Of course every solution to this problem is a compromise between brevity , readability and googleability , but it seems to me that this one works well in my field .
Yes , reviewing papers is an integral part of your job now , and a very beneficial one at that ! It 's true that the first papers you will review will take you quite a bit of time , but it 's a sound investment ( unless you consider dropping out of academia next month ) . You 'll improve your reading and ability to read between the lines . It will help you gain a wider view of what others are doing in your field , because it will force you to really go through the paper in depth , not just skim over it as we are so often forced to do when a paper is not at the core of our own research . Moreover , it will give you invaluable experience when you write your next papers , because you will be able to put yourself in the reviewer 's shoes ! You will see better what could be problematic for a referee in the presentation of your work . As for whether you should list it on your CV : <URL>
It is plagiarism if you copy someone else 's " creative contribution " . For example , if the section headings are How does the method identify errant patterns in spider webs ? An analysis of one million images of spider webs Results of our analysis and an attempt at tying web patterns to genetic disorders in arachnids then copying these section headings is likely plagiarism unless you specifically reference that you are following the same structure as previously used by the founder of the field , A. Rachnidova , in her seminal paper " On the patterns of spider webs " , Arachnophobia , vol . 13 , 1962 . On the other hand , if you section headings are Introduction Methods Results Discussion then there is no creative contribution in this -- everyone uses these sections headings , because they are descriptive of what these sections are . Consequently , you can also be " one of everyone " and use this without attribution .
Edited : I found a better answer to the question , the original indicative answer is left below . <URL> , we have a statement from December 2006 regarding the number of submissions , rate of editor rejections and ultimate acceptance number . While slightly outdated , the acceptance rate of Nature journal does not seem to fluctuate widely between 2006 and 2012 ( always around 7-8 % of submitted articles ) , hence I believe the number is significant and valid : Nature receives approximately 10,000 papers every year and our editors reject about 60 % of them without review . ... ... In the end we publish about 7 % of our submissions . From that we have , that in 2006 about 40 % of submissions were sent out for peer-review . The original indicative answer : Not a precise answer , but can be indicative also for Nature journal itself : <URL> is a statistics of a decade 2002-2012 of publishing in Nature Materials in numbers , various stats are presented . Specifically <URL> shows that the ratio of peer-reviewed vs. submitted manuscripts is floating around 13 % . Out of peer-reviewed , about 60 % get accepted . This shows that their first filter , the editorial decision whether to review at all , is extremely aggressive and in fact is the filter in the publishing process . According to a note <URL> , Nature Neuroscience sends about 30-35 % papers for peer-review .
It depends a lot on the event ( some gatherings are more formal than others ) and on your status ( win a Nobel prize , and you can wear anything you damn well want ) , but in general , you 're not really expected to wear anything fancier to an academic conference than you would for a normal day at work or in class . In practice , most people do tend to dress up a little bit , just to look their best , but still , even if you just wear your normal clean everyday clothes , you 're not going to embarrass yourself ( any more than you usually do , at least ) . As the other answers note , " smart casual " is the usual style here . Nothing says you ca n't wear a suit if you want to ; I see people do that all the time in conferences . Then again , some of those people also wear a suit to work every day , so ... Still , if you 're in doubt , why not ask your advisor ( or someone else in your group who 's been to similar events before ) ? That 's part of their job : to teach you the basics of academic work , which certainly includes presenting your work at a conference .
One solution to <URL> is <URL> ( open source , BSD license ) , which is a Python module that implements a querier and parser for Google Scholar 's output . Its classes can be used independently , but it can also be invoked as a command-line tool . Amongst other things , it can fetch the number of citations of an article .
It varies . As a first year PhD student I was asked to review a theory paper , even though I had almost no background in the field . The professor explicitly said I only had to read the first half of the paper , and I only had to tell him if it looked interesting and correct . At the same time I 'm sure many reviewers do a diligent job and do n't outsource their reviewing to inexperienced graduate students . Related : <URL>
If you mean " is it outrageous to ask a librarian to collect research papers for you , " then no , it 's not outrageous ; some librarians do that , though rarely the librarians working in public libraries . For most university students ( at least in the US . You 're in Indonesia so the system may vary , ) they go to their school libraries because the collections are much closer to their fields of study . The librarians are also more proficient in handling academics-related questions . If you do have an affiliated university , I 'll check with the librarians there first . If you do n't have one , then I 'll next try to contact some librarians of state-funded or nationally funded universities ( especially if you are a tax payer . ) Most of these public schools open their libraries or provide limited consultation to the public . It would also be valuable to ask if they have any kind of borrower program or consortium you can join : later you may need to download a lot of journal articles and having an access to their server can save you a lot of money . If both of these are no goes , then you can try the public libraries . However , the librarians may not be available to fetch articles for you . Instead , you may ask them for resources ( pamphlet , booklet , website ) on how to perform a literature search ( I 'm assuming literature , but they can also show you other curated forms such as microfilm , legal archive , etc. ) Most public libraries do not subscribe highly professional/specialized journals due to the high price , so realize that your scope can be limited somewhat . If all of these yield no results . I 'd suggest at least pay a graduate students or instructor for 2-3 hours to give you a general rundown/tutorial . As I have said , most librarians will not be able to do the search for you . And it 's better for you , as the researcher , to have the first hand experience and control of the process . At the very least , try ask the librarians about database you should search , how to select keywords , how to export and keep results , what bibliography software is available , reference books on writing literature review etc. . Lastly , the quality of help you are going to get is proportional to the clarity of your vision about the work . The more concrete you can describe your work , the easier for them . Things you should consider are as follows : What is the topic ? What is ( are ) the main question ( s ) you want to answer ? -- in this part , be very explicit about time , location , and other important qualifier ( think <URL> ) How far back in time do you need to go ? What is the purpose of the document ? E.g. For a blog , for a grant proposal , or for an assignment ?
The American Mathematical Society has a calendar of conferences : <URL> As does the Mathematical Association of America : <URL> And the Society of Industrial and Applied Mathematics : <URL>
Letters of recommendation often end with " ... If you need further details do not hesitate to contact me on ... " , and this is not a useless formality . If committee members have some questions about the candidate , they are very likely to email or telephone the person who wrote the recommendation and ask them . The content of the letter matters greatly , but it is even more important that the person who signs under the letter actually knows you well . This is the main reason why a general and vague letter does not make you much good . Sadly , some professors are too busy to write the letter themselves , and they sometimes ask their students to prepare a letter which they are happy to sign . Be vary of this line , as the busy professor is likely to forget your name the next minute you step out his door , and therefore will not be able to provide details on you if asked . This also diminishes the effect of the recommendation , if not negates it .
end question
start question
When is it appropriate to decline a review request ?
There are a few clear reasons to decline a review request , although in complete honesty , I 've never actually declined to review a paper yet , so these are all at least " in theory " for me . Some of them are one 's you 've mentioned , but there are some others : Conflict of interest . This one 's pretty clear , though with the way some reviews are handled - based on recommendations , closely related expertise , etc. what actually constitutes a conflict of interest can get a little vague . Lack of time . This is one that people seem to ignore or discount , but it 's a big one . If you ca n't give a paper the attention it deserves , or your review is going to be late ( predictably , not because of unforeseen things ) , then you should probably decline to review it . You 're not doing you , the authors , or the editor any favors by making them chase you down for months to get a review . Lack of expertise . If you read the methods section of a paper and your primary thought is " Huh ? " not because the paper is unclear , but because its far afield from your expertise , I 'd strongly consider contacting the editor for advice and asking not to be a reviewer . I would n't necessarily not be a reviewer due to a failure to find the paper sufficiently interesting . If your expertise is indeed appropriate and the work is not of sufficiently compelling interest , that is a review finding all its own . Additionally , one would hope that you can evaluate the scientific merit of things that - while you are capable of understanding - you might not find directly interesting . Whether or not it matters if its a conference or a paper likely depends on your field ( how important are conferences ? ) and the particular conference or paper . For example , I might make a special effort to " find the time " for a journal I submit to ( or would like to submit to ) or a conference I frequently attend , but might not for a journal or conference I 've never heard of .
I do n't understand most of the current answers , which mostly assume you want technical advice without paying for it , but requiring an NDA . If this is indeed what you want , I agree it 's a bad idea . However . You write that this professor has already gone into business . This implies that he has a certain basic understanding of how business works . He probably has signed his fair share of NDAs , as well as requiring others to sign his . It appears perfectly reasonable for you ( or your friend ) to set up a short meeting with this professor , say of 30 minutes or so . Quickly present your idea in a rather general manner , in an " elevator pitch " - at least outlining what problem you want to solve . Think beforehand how much you are comfortable revealing . Tell him that you 'd like his advice , and be frank that you are not comfortable giving full details without protection for your intellectual property . ( I 'd also look for protection if I knew this professor , not only if he were unknown . ) Have a proposal ready for possible next steps , which would include him signing an NDA and his investing a little time for a discussion . Ask him explicitly what he 'd expect from you in return for investing his time . Professors are busy people , and more so if they run a company on the side . You may actually have a good chance that he 'd be happy to mentor you to a limited extent pro bono - most academics are idealists at heart , otherwise they would be in industry from the very beginning . However , if you want more in-depth advice , be prepared to offer hourly rates , possibly conditional on your idea getting off the ground . Always keep in mind that professors are busy , just as are other businesspeople . Do n't come with a mindset that you are entitled to advice , but ask politely , and things may go well . If this professor is active in a similar line of business as you are , this may be a very good opportunity - he may have contacts in the industry and/or to funders that may very well be invaluable .
I think not . Ask yourself what the editor of the journal would think if your CV crossed their desk , and they saw you listing yourself as a reviewer and they 'd never heard your name before . Having a review delegated to you does not make you a reviewer for that journal . The journal chose your professor , not you , so you should not muddy the waters about what you 've been asked to do . If someone asks you about your reviewing experience , feel free to tell them that you did some subreviewing for your professor .
There are a few sites that do this : <URL> <URL> . <URL> . Of these , I think SciRev is the most active , but I 'm not certain about this . That said , in my experience , the actual rating information on these is not of much value . Uptake is pretty slow , and most of the reviews I 've seem to just very high marks indiscriminately . As a result , you ca n't infer too much from the tiny sample sizes available . The information about time to result , review quality , etc. might be useful in principle , but in practice again you 've got tiny sample sizes and probably a selection bias as well in terms of who submits reviews -- though I do n't know which way this selection bias would go . Nature wrote a <URL> ( not paywalled ) about these sites in early 2015 .
I 've reviewed more than 50 papers , and my preparation to review them has varied widely . At least a few of them have drawn heavily on papers I 've written . Generally , these are extending my results . Typically , I ask myself : What does this paper add ? Is it something I would have thought of easily or not ? If yes , why did n't I include it in my paper ? In contrast , I 've also reviewed some papers that I was not well prepared for . They were in my general field , but in a subarea that I had n't worked in . These papers took a lot more work . ( Up to 10x as long for me to review as a paper in an area where I 'm very familiar . ) For papers in an area that 's new to me , I often have to look up ( and skim ) at least a few of the references from the introduction to judge whether the paper is original . Originality has at least two very different levels . The easier one to achieve is : ( 1 ) this result is new , and does n't follow simply from anything previous . The much harder one is , ( 2 ) this technique is fundamentally new and produces interesting results . If the results are interesting , most journals are happy to publish articles of type ( 1 ) . Articles of type ( 2 ) are much rarer , and can potentially open entire new fields . tl ; dnr : Preparation : you need to either know the subarea well or be willing to read a lot to learn about it . Originality : What papers does it draw on ? How likely is it that a reader of those would be able to write this paper ? Answering this question may require you to read a lot of background .
Is it normal to submit an abstract to a conference when the research is NOT completed ? Sure . There are plenty of fields where the purpose of a conference is to discuss research that is " still cooking . " In fact , many journal publications can be viewed as interim reports on larger research programs that are still in progress . You might use this opportunity to set a goal for ( roughly ) the piece of your thesis you want to have done by the date of the conference . It 's ok if that piece is relatively small , and nobody at the conference will hold you strictly to what you say in the abstract . In fact , some people submit abstracts on one thing and then talk about something entirely different ... I wo n't advocate that behavior as an intentional strategy , but I will say that many people ( myself included ) prefer a great talk to exacting consistency with the abstract .
The standard answer to such issues is to ignore . By and large , these situations arise because the editor etc. did not care to look up the recipient 's real title . There is no malicious intent , actually there is likely no intent at all other than trying to use a catch-all title that the editor assumes will not offend anybody ( typically Dr. or Prof. ) . No harm is done by not rectifying this error , and indeed spending more than a short chuckle on this is too much effort . ( also , being addressed by the wrong title is , at least for me , so common that I mostly stopped noticing it )
I agree with both previous commenters : publish your algorithm first and then point them to the YouTube video . If you can not or do n't want to go the traditional journal publishing route , at least , consider self-publishing a paper , describing your algorithm , at a preprint or e-print server , such as <URL> . At the same time , I do n't see a problem with this request , IF it involves sharing only data , but not the algorithm itself . If you see the value of and are serious about commercialization of your algorithm , consider filing a <URL> with USPTO and/or Swiss patent agency . I 'm not sure about possibility and details of applying for provisional patent in Switzerland , therefore , I refer you to <URL> , which seems to be relevant . It might be easier to skip filing provisional patent application with USPTO and file a standard one in Europe to establish the priority right ( for example , see <URL> ) . Should you be thinking about going the patent route , I would definitely recommend you to consult a legal professional , specializing in intellectual property ( IP ) domain . Disclaimer : I 'm not a lawyer and this answer does not represent legal advice .
It sounds like a good thing to do , since the reviewing process for this journal is over . I would certainly appreciate it if I where the author of that article ( passed the frustration that generally follows article rejection ) . It 's almost certain that it will be submitted somewhere else , so your ( free ) inputs will benefit the authors and the community . This is valid , of course , only if you are not reviewer again in the next submission , you should definitely decline if it happens .
I would only do so if you have a very good reason to want a particular editor ( or to avoid another one ) : while there can exist valid such reasons , it could also be a warning sign for editors . For example , if you ask that the editor not be the " usual " editor for your particular subfield , it may be regarded as you trying to avoid careful scrutiny . So , if you are not asked about it , and you do n't really care ( or trust them to make the right call ) ( which should be the majority of cases ) , just do n't do it . Regarding usage : most of the chemistry journals I know allow you to pick your handling editor directly from a list ( although availability and workload management might lead to changes after submission ) , and some journals allow you to pick both preferred and non-preferred editors .
There are several possibilities here , although generally they all have the same solution . The English is poor or incorrect and the company did not check it well It is possible that the company that checked your article did a bad job . This happens . Maybe the service did not have a native English speaker check your article . Maybe they had a bad day . Maybe they do n't provide good service , and you just got lucky on previous times . It 's hard to say . The English is grammatical , but not idiomatic It is possible that the company that checked your article fixed all the grammatical mistakes , but that there are still some phrasings which are not idiomatic or particularly natural . This is essentially a function of how detailed the corrections were . For example , here is the first paragraph of your post : Recently I had submitted a Manuscript to an International Journal . Though it is accepted as a Minor revision , but I am worried about the reviewer 's comment . First reviewer has commented that the Paper is well written , still needs some English improvements . Second reviewer has also commented that English improvements is required . There are some small grammatical errors , and I can correct them as follows ( in bold ) : Recently I had submitted a manuscript to an international journal . Though it is was accepted as a minor revision , but I am worried about the reviewer 's comment . The first reviewer has commented that the paper is well written , but still needs some English improvements . The second reviewer has also commented that English improvements is are required . While this paragraph is now grammatically correct , it still does not feel like it was written by a native speaker , and the way some words are used is a little odd . ( E.g. using though and but in the second sentence ; you really only need one of them . ) So , a more thorough checking would suggest edits like the following : Recently I had submitted a manuscript to an international journal . Though it is was accepted as a Minor revision pending minor revisions , but I am worried about the reviewers 's comments . The first reviewer has commented that the paper is well written , but still needs some English improvements . The second reviewer has also commented that English improvements is are required . The checking service could have done the first step ( making it grammatically correct ) without following through on the second step ( making it idiomatic ) . The second step is much harder , of course , as it requires knowledge of what style is appropriate for your field ( and for the journal you are writing for ) , and , to some extent , it requires technical knowledge of whatever you 're writing about . The English is fine , the reviewer is just being picky Academic articles are complex and often involve detailed theoretical or technical discussion . At times , they can be hard to follow . Sometimes this complexity is interpreted as poor language skills , and reviewers complain . I know more than one native English speaker who has received reviews asking them to check their article with a native speaker . In essence , this criticism relates to how the content is presented rather than linguistic concerns like grammaticality or phrasing . The solution It is not easily possible for you to determine right now which of the above scenarios has happened . However , a big help would be for you to show the manuscript to a trusted colleague who is a native speaker of English , and ask them how it reads . If the English is really atrocious , then you know you have a problem with the checking service ; if there are some unusual phrases but it 's otherwise fine , then you know the problem is that it 's occasionally un-idiomatic ; and if there are no obvious problems , then it 's probably just an issue of reviewer interpretation . The other step you should take is to re-read your manuscript and attempt to make complex exposition more clear . ( This is a step I advise everyone to do at basically every stage of the writing process ... ) This will help your article in the case that the English was fine but the reviewer was just confused . Finally , breathe and relax . Your article was accepted , congratulations ! Clearly the reviewers and the editor thought that the scientific content was sufficient to merit publication .
Counterexamples notwithstanding , the practice certainly raises all sorts of questions about conflicts of interest : is the adviser providing unbiased advice , is the adviser unbiased in their assessment of the academic proficiency of the candidate , is the advisee independent to choose their research direction , etc. . In cases like this , nobody looks good -- people wonder about the judgment of the adviser , they wonder about the actual quality of the candidate if papers are jointly written , and they wonder about what 's going on in the department to let such things happen . As a consequence , people and departments are generally well advised not to let this happen , simply because the perception of a conflict of interest is oftentimes just as bad as the actuality of something improper happening .
Keep it short and succinct , I would say a paragraph is good , unless otherwise stated in the application . If this means that you only have enough space to talk about one of those areas , then pick one . If the conference is more geared towards pure mathematics , I would suggest expanding on your interest in cryptography . Otherwise , if it is an applied mathematics conference , then talk about your studies in biological math . Chances are schools which specialize in pure mathematics will attend a pure mathematics conference , and likewise for applied math . If you want to find out the universities who are attending , just ask an event coordinator . I 'm sure there is n't any secrecy surrounding who is attending .
I think that this practice violates the usual " confidentiality agreement " that presents ( formally , or customary ) in a review process . However , I would agree that this is a common practice , and for some people it is just hard to work on their own , although technically you are supposed to give your own opinion on a paper you review . I would say that if you really need to show the paper you review to someone else , you should check the following boxes : make sure the person understands that they are looking on a paper under review , and agrees to maintain the confidentiality , i.e. : not to talk about the ideas from the paper with someone else , not to produce own work based on these results until they are made public , etc. . The actual material paper , and the file , do not change hands : do not send the pdf manuscript to your colleagues , do not leave the printed paper with them for a while . Ask specific question ( s ) about the paper , for which you need second advice , not just a general opinion . Remember , that you should review the manuscript yourself . Definitely do not use the second opinion to shake some work off your shoulders and go .
It 's certainly fine to ask for the maximum , if your expenses are at least that much . And you can combine multiple expense items , as long as they are all reasonable . In case 2 you can certainly request $ 1000 . I would actually go further : list all your expenses and request the total amount , even if it exceeds the maximum reimbursement amount stated . You can phrase it as something like " My total travel expenses are $ 2345.67 ; I understand the maximum grant offered is $ 1000.00 . " Let them take care of capping your reimbursement at their maximum figure . Part of the reason for this is that organizers sometimes find they have more money , or fewer participants seeking funding , than they expected , and so they can actually give more money to each participant than their originally stated maximum . So if it turns out that they actually have $ 1200 per person , they know they can reimburse you for $ 1200 instead . If you only mentioned $ 1000 in expenses originally , they might think that was actually your total expenditure , and you might miss out on the extra money . A lesser reason is that it helps keep the organizers informed as to what it actually costs people to attend , and how much of a difference their travel grant is making . Of course , if your total travel expenses are only $ 534.63 , then you should only request that amount ( and make it clear that this represents your total expenses ) . The point of the grant is to cover your expenses , not to arbitrarily enrich you .
You have asked for an alternative interview date , gave them a list of options where you 're available , and made efforts to reschedule conflicting appointments . I do n't think there 's anything more that could be expected of you , so it should not be perceived as impolite if you just inform University C that unfortunately you ca n't come to any of the two offered interview dates due to conflicting appointments . If you want , you can explicitly mention interviews at other universities - that will make it clear that you 're genuinely interested in doing a PhD , and it will be understandable to most academics that everybody has a ranking of opportunities in such situations . You could offer to retract your application , or state that you expect that they wo n't consider your application any further , but I do n't think any of these would be required .
One simple criterion is that if you have refereed more papers than the number of referee reports you have received for your papers , perhaps even divided by the number of coauthors you have for each paper , then you are ahead of the game and should n't feel guilty about turning requests down . Ultimately , if your career goes really well you should expect to do substantially more than your share of reviewing , but you are n't obligated to do this while still a postdoc . Even if you have n't reached this point , it 's reasonable to put your career development first for now . Strategically , you should referee a paper if reading it will be valuable for your research , if you can impress an influential editor , or if it 's for a particularly prestigious journal ( so it will stand out on your CV in the list of journals you have reviewed for ) . Beyond that , you can do what you reasonably have time for , but you should feel free to decline review requests when you are busy with other things . If you feel guilty about this , you can make up for it by reviewing more papers than you would otherwise like someday when you have a stable job . At what point will listing another journal ( or another instance of refereeing for a given journal ) on your CV generate negligible returns for an early-career researcher ? I 'd say the returns become negligible pretty quickly . Adding a really fancy journal can look impressive , but even doubling the number of run of the mill journals will make only a small difference . ( People want to see that your reputation leads to review requests , but do n't care much beyond that . ) To the extent refereeing helps your career , it 's more likely to be because you impressed the editor than because a hiring committee liked the line on your CV . However , writing papers and giving talks will reach a much broader audience than refereeing can , so extra refereeing is not an efficient career boost .
It depends why you are quoting/paraphrasing . Usually I structure my review in two parts . The first part summarizes the paper , the major contributions , and the high-level strengths and weaknesses of the submission . In this part I paraphrase . This shows the authors , and the editor , that I have read and understood the paper well enough to describe its ideas in my own words . In the second part I get into the details , i.e. you forgot citation X , formula Y has an error , these sentences are confusing , etc. . In this part I quote .
My take on this -- in a physics PhD -- was that code that had a bearing on the results should be included in the appendix . I read in the entire source of my data-processing routines ( using the listings package in LaTeX ) and included them . But I skipped bits like 40 consecutive lines of assigning defaults to variables ( 0s for later incrementing ) or writing a default config file : ( check the line numbers in the example ) This is easy to do in listings , as is setting monospaced fonts and code highlighting . I 'm not saying this is the right way of doing it , just a sensible way . I may not even have implemented this approach as well as I could have done . Of course , this will depend on your field . In my case the code was an important processing step in the results of some tricky new experiments . No-one is realistically going to want to replicate my code , checking some aspects of it is another matter . And yes , I do have every intention of making it available as well -- but it would be of limited use given that my coding style could at best be described as " scientist , self taught in Python " .
It is not uncommon for the advisor to ask a student to review a paper . Let 's face it -- reviewing is a chore , takes a huge chunk of your time and most people do it not out of interest for the paper , but rather a necessity ( it factors in promotions within the organization and recognition within the society ) and probably some feigned interest in the " role of an academic " and " giving back to the society " . Usually , the papers that an advisor passes on to their students are tangentially related to their interests only mildly interesting or borderline stuff are not from top-tier journals As a student , you should never pass up on these opportunities . It can be a very rewarding experience to review a paper and discuss with your advisor . Some of the things you 'll learn are : that you did n't catch on to some inconsistency/mistake after a month of review , but your advisor did it in 15 mins of casual reading . to write an effective critique while at the same time not putting the authors down . Contrary to what many may think , a review is not all about " your math sucks ! " . While yes , it should be pointed out if it indeed sucks , there are ways of saying that . If you spend a lot of the review finding faults , then it is also " fair " to throw in a couple of nice things about the paper and balance it . you 'll also learn to not nit pick on minor quibbles and focus on the technical content ( I hate it when a reviewer makes a huge deal of ' data are ' vs ' data is ' ) . You 'll learn to do this while juggling other activities , so it 's also an early lesson in time management . In the end , the quality of the review is partly your advisor 's responsibility and he 's not going to allow it if it is completely shabby . So , take this as an opportunity to learn about how to write a review . Speaking for myself , I reviewed a couple of papers for my advisor in my early years and now , after I have a few publications to my name , I get invited to review papers on my own ( i.e. , not via my advisor ) . Recently , there were a couple of opportunities that my advisor passed on to me , but the difference this time , is that he trusts me to do a decent review and so requested the editor to officially ask me to review , so that I 'll get credit for it .
end question
start question
Is it possible to refer to a specific section of the supplemental material ?
Supplemental material should generally be organized and referred to just as tightly as the main material : you should think of it as one big document which just happens to be divided into two files . As such , you should provide explicit , well-localized references to each element you refer to in the supplemental , just like you would in the main text , e.g. , " Supplementary Figure 3 " , " Supplementary Section 6 . " Note also that if you adopt this sort of tight " one document " formatting , you are not necessarily using any more words than " See Supplementary Material " . Some examples of articles using this format : <URL> <URL> <URL>
The UK graduate schools are officially ranked through <URL> ( being currently phased out to be replaced by <URL> ) , so you can get a full list of programs that are of any worth <URL> . In the US , rankings are produced from time to time by the National Research Council . <URL> is from 2009 . The methodology and reporting format are beyond weird , but at least the list of programs is useful ( albeit difficult to navigate in the Excel file format ; I found my area , statistics , under " Physical sciences " , for instance , which is a very distant shot ) . The <URL> were done with involvement of real statisticians , so I trust them better .
I think you can do research in your own time , but I think getting your work published is hard where you are not affiliated with a university or research institute . You have the advantage that you will not use precious resources from the institute as you will be doing the research in your own time , but you probably do not have a large amount of priority over the normal PhD 's and postdocs . I think you should write a research plan , i.e. where do you want to go with your research . Writing such a proposal will show a supervisor you are serious and have some research skills ( provided the proposal is any good ) . Once you have a number of publications , molding those into a PhD thesis is quite possible . In the Netherlands for example it is quite normal to bundle your papers , and write an introduction and summary as your PhD thesis . I do think performing research next to a normal job can be challenging , as research tends to take a lot of time . So be prepared to let your PhD take 10 + years ( possibly making it obsolete ) , or sacrifice a lot of spare/family time .
Definitely talk to your advisor first . While I doubt that continuity of funding will be an issue , there could be other ones : your advisor should be allowed to advise students in BME ( sometimes ' joint appointments do n't by default come with the ability to be the advisor for a student ) . You may need to get a co-advisor in BME ( or not : it depends on the rules ) you may need to formally reapply . There might even be the possibility that you are rejected ( but I 'd be very surprised if that happened ) . It 's usually never the case that you can just switch between departments . This also means that there will be deadlines , paperwork and possibly even some fees . since you 're in the first year in grad school , committee composition is not an issue , but for someone later on in the program that could be a problem as well . Your advisor will/should know the answer to some of these questions and the BME administrative staff ( graduate advisor or equivalent ) will know the rest .
No , this is not possible , at least not with IEEE Xplore . In fact , they explicitly disallow this . See <URL> ( Point 4 of the " Do Not " s for Institutional Subscribers ) . So it is not surprising that there is no technical support for doing that . As an individual former subscriber of " IEEE Security &amp; Privacy " , they may have granted you that right . Interestingly , under the " Do Not " s for IEEE Member access to IEEE Xplore , the point about downloading whole issues is missing . So that may be part of the reason .
There is usually no specific subject requirement for a MBA . However , MBA programs usually require a few years of work experience ( on average candidates have 5 + years ) . Often you will also need to get a good score on the GMAT test . But this is stuff you can study on your own , you do n't necessarily need to take any courses . I would think if you were interested in an MBA then you would probably be pursuing more management related opportunities anyway . But these could certainly be obtained by starting in a software engineering role and working your way up . Obviously you are not going to get a management position fresh out of university , everyone needs to start somewhere . The company you work for may even pay for your management training if they believe you have promise . You can read about the requirements and admissions process at various top MBA schools : <URL> <URL>
First , to answer your titular question : Is it possible ? Likely yes . Otherwise , all PhD students at this university would fail , would n't they :) ? Let me go over the rest of your question one by one : It seems that most universities in Europe require an outline of the planned dissertation at the application stage . Most seems a bit extreme . I know that this is how it works in some universities , but it certainly did not work like that in all places I worked in . I think even choosing the title of a dissertation needs a lot of dialogue between the student and his supervisor . It also requires a thorough investigation on the state of art in the targeted area . Correct . At my current university , people hand in their proposals during their second year usually . Is such proposal the definite proposal or it may totally be changed after the admission ? It is almost certainly not a very definite plan , but whether it can totally change I am not sure . For instance , I would assume if it changed so much that it started to fall out of the area of expertise of your advisor , I would imagine things would get tricky . Can you provide some tips for writing such proposal draft ? How much time you think I should devote for such plan ( at least ) ? Rsearch the state of the art in the field you are interested in . Take a few days minimum to browse over the keywords of the papers of the top conferences in the field . Find out which professor at your university publishes in these top conferences ( if there is nobody , this university may be a bad match for your field of interest ) , and see what the typical keywords and style of his work are . Think about ~ 3 coarse-grained research questions that you think are not answered yet by existing work . You probably already needed to define a research question for e.g. , your master 's thesis . Make sure that the scope is a bit broader now for a PhD - you do n't want research questions that are basically answerable within one paper in a few months of work ( Bad : " Q1 : is it possible to apply algorithm A to problem B ? " ) . On the other hand , you do not want to be too general either ( Bad : " Q2 : how can security be introduced in service-oriented systems ? " - this one is a real-life example ) .
Students have lots of reasons for taking courses and I do n't think I want to be in the business of telling students that there are right and wrong reasons to take a class . I certainly think it 's a good idea for prospective PhD students to think about who might be good letter writers early on in their program and to make sure they work with some of them -- not doing so can make the academic job market very difficult . I do n't see this as being substantively different . If you take the class , do well , and then ask for a letter , you might get a good one . Or you might not . So I 'd say go ahead . That said , there is something very mercenary about the way you have phrased your question that makes me skeptical . Do you really think that working with faculty would n't teach you anything ? If it 's true that the only reason you want to take a class is because of the letter you might get , something seems off . Maybe your interests are different enough from the professor 's that I 'm skeptical that this person would be such a great letter writer for what you want to do . Being able to excel in a Masters program means not resenting the idea that you may have to learn from professors when you could " just read the book . " I think it 's OK to take a class for a recommendation but you should use this as opportunity to learn something you are passionate about in ways you could not with just the textbook . Talk to the professor . Let them know you are an advanced and passionate student . Get feedback on your work . Go beyond what is just in the book . If you do that , you will get more than you would otherwise . In the process , you will also earn a much stronger letter . If you ca n't get over that hump , I suspect that your recommendations -- and your experience in grad school -- will underwhelm .
You want your reader to be able to figure out what 's in the paper without reading through all the technical details , and then going through the trouble of synthesizing what you 've written to figure out the what the paper means . If you want your paper to have any impact at all , you need to put an executive summary somewhere in it . Whether you put all the details of the summary at the end of the introduction , or put a less detailed summary in the introduction , and expand on the details at the beginning of each section may depend on the author and/or the field . It may be that in your field , people expect summaries at the end/beginning of each section , and will look for them there . But if you 're careful about what you say and how you say it , you do n't need to repeat details from the introduction at the beginnings of the section , so putting the summaries at the beginning/end of the sections should n't use much extra space .
Publishing In mathematics , most people will judge your research on its merits , not based on your credentials or affiliations . So this is not an issue , if you are able to generate significant results and write them up in a clear way . Seminars I have seen many members of the public regularly attend seminars . I 've never heard of them being kicked out . It 's not an issue . Funding The primary drawback is that you wo n't be paid for your research if you are just doing it in your spare time . Unless you are already independently wealthy , that means you will have relatively little time for research since you need a day job . It is of course possible to get grants to fund your research without being in academia ; there are a number of private entities in the US funded entirely by grants , and many of them include mathematicians . But you said spare time only . Collaboration Another drawback is that you wo n't be in close contact with other researchers by default . It would n't be impossible to establish that contact , but again you must consider whether you will have the time . And people wo n't take you seriously unless you have serious results . Not getting a PhD In mathematics , even more than in other fields , it is almost impossible to make a contribution without spending several years learning what is already known . In principle you could do that without getting a PhD , but why would you ?
I strongly dispute your assertion that knowledge of the more general subject is not needed for the more specific subjects . To use your own example , general biology will include general cell anatomy and metabolism and probably some basics of evolution . More specialized courses like anatomy and endocrinology will make no sense without these basics . Even when a direct subject material connection is not obvious , in a well-designed set of courses there is often an important dependence in skills . For example , in the mathematics classes that I took , there was not much direct connection in material between Analysis and some the higher-level subjects like Abstract Algebra and Topology that had it as a required prerequisite . However , Analysis was the subject where students were expected to learn how to properly approach and formulate mathematical proofs , and the higher-level subjects assumed these skills . Likewise , many engineering departments have a required " general engineering " subject for freshmen , which drums in the general philosophy of engineering through hands-on applications in various areas : even if an electrical engineer never uses a machine-shop again , the " engineering way of thinking " that they have learned will be critical to their success later on . Returning , then , to your basic question : there 's an awful lot of knowledge in the world , and much of it simply is very specialized . General classes give the foundation required by many different specialized subjects , and so a well-designed curriculum tends to naturally form a " tree " structure that starts general and becomes more specialized as one progresses deeper into a subject .
I do n't think what you 're describing is all that common , and I 've never heard of any sort of systematic program , but it does happen . I ended up spending two months abroad during grad school to participate in a once off trimester program in my area of specialty . There were n't any standard arrangements in place , though : my home university ( very generously ) moved things around so I could do it . I think I 've heard of other cases , all similarly involving unique circumstances like faculty moving around or particular personal connections .
You should definitely write it up . There are plenty of good reasons for doing so and no downside . Writing a paper is a good exercise for future paper and report writing , and while you are doing it you are likely to think of new ideas about your research . You will also have to search for similar work that might be suitable for references and you may find something useful there too . You should also put the paper online somewhere so that it is preserved and available to others who may find it useful . If there is data and/or code that goes with the paper you can use figshare for example . It does not matter if there is not much response to your work , that is common when authors have no background and does not mean it is not good . Someone may pick up on it later when you do n't expect it . You might also want to try to publish in a peer-review journal if you think it is sufficiently original and useful . That might require you to write it up in a specific format such at LaTeX . Again that is all good experience . You will have a much better chance of acceptance in a journal if you can use your university affiliation but you will have to make it clear that you are an undergraduate there to avoid problems and it might be best to check with your tutor . If you search around you may find a suitable journal that is specifically set up to accept work from undergraduates . If you can get it accepted it would look good on your CV whatever you plan to do in the future . The only circumstance that would make it unwise to publish your work would be if the algorithm is original and of high commercial value and/or patentable in which case you would have to follow a different route to protect your intellectual property . However that is a rare situation .
In anthropology , it 's pretty common to use local terms in both the title and subtitle . Almost everyone romanizes the terms rather than using the native script . And they leave explanations and glosses to the body of the dissertation itself . That being said , when it comes time to submit to a book publisher , they 're more hesitant about local terms in titles . The issue is that they are legible only to people who already know the local language or culture , so you 've automatically limited the appeal of your book . But there have been some notable exceptions : Travesti : Sex , Gender , and Culture Among Brazilian Transgendered Prostitutes Toms and Dees : Transgender Identity and Female Same-Sex Relationships in Thailand The Soul of Anime : Collaborative Creativity and Japan 's Media Success Story In the examples above , the exceptions prove the rule by either being obvious to English speakers ( " travesti " = ? transvestite ? ) , close to English ( " Tom " is obvious , " Dee " adds an element of curiousity ) , or already a loan word in English ( " anime " ) .
I will address the final question you ask -- if it 's fair for instructors to write an exam but point to other material to study . The primary ethical issue here is the question of intent : why did the instructor tell you to review the particular material . If this was an intentional effort to mislead students , and to feed them " false " information in order to catch them unprepared , I would say that it is somewhat unethical . ( In other words , if you were told you would n't be responsible for something on the exam when the instructor knew it would be , that 's wrong . ) However , if the instructor gave " recommendations " -- along the lines of " it might be good to know X , Y , and Z " -- then there 's really nothing wrong with that . Telling you exactly what to do defeats the purpose of a university education , which is to learn how to learn ! Ultimately , the instructor should not be spoonfeeding you information which you then regurgitate on the final exam . And I would further argue that if all you 're doing is memorizing information , as you suggest , then you 're also not really accomplishing much , since such information is very likely to be " dumped " from memory once the semester is over .
As Dave mentioned , what you want to do will be very challenging . One possibility would be to change to a different university that offers the math classes you mentioned . However , I will assume that switching schools is not an option for you . If you are very dedicated to this goal , here is one possible route . finish your current studies in CSE get a job in a town with a university that offers the math classes you desire start taking one class each semester as a non-degree student . I do n't know about policies elsewhere , but many school in the United States have less strict admission requirements for non-degree students . Your goals for these classes should be two-fold . ( 1 ) Learn the material as well as you can . Your understanding of this material will be important for both getting into and succeeding in graduate school . ( 2 ) Impress your professors with both your ability and your desire . When you eventually apply to a masters program , you will ask some of these professors for letters of recommendation . apply to a masters program in mathematics . Ask for letters of recommendation from both your current professors in your CSE program and from those who know you from the math classes you take after you finish your BS . as you near the finish of your masters ( where you have worked hard to prove yourself ) apply to PhD programs I know this is a long-term plan , but with hard work and dedication you could make it work . Here is another question <URL> that you may find to be helpful .
It is possible . After years away from graduate school , I am working on several papers , covering both old and new topics . However , it is very hard to do it completely alone . I have the benefit of some contacts acquired through one of the forums on StackExchange . They are willing to spend a limited amount of time ( say half an hour a month , to within two orders of magnitude ) in email correspondence with me , to receive drafts from me ( but not necessarily referee : just skim for a few minutes and find more egregious aspects which they kindly point out ) , and most importantly , endorse me for posting on ArXiv . Before the endorsement , I spent some time convincing them I would n't be a drain , that I could help them out , and that I might hope for a favor regarding endorsement , literature search , and so on . Realize that from their perspective , I could be a potential crank or downside on their career , as I have given them almost no verifiable information on what little credentials I have . I consider their involvement as a gift , and treat it with care . With their minimum involvement , I now can post results on the ArXiv , and use that as a stepping stone to loftier research goals . Since your express purpose is to produce research for others to read , you need three things : the research , the others , and a means to get the research to the others . Getting to know one or two of the " others " is key . Getting them by being helpful on this and other fora is one of the easiest routes I know for this step , but there are other methods . There may be other repositories besides the ArXiv which may help you more , but I do n't know of them ; ask the " others " for advice , and respect their time . The research part , that 's your problem , again with which " others " might be able to help .
I am not sure if a statement would be harmful , it will be a question of how well you appear to know the field . You are right in that you have not nearly read enough . It would be better to simply state that you are interested in such and such a field without going into depth , after all being interested is hardly a problem . If you try to get into arguing for why a field is interesting without having a good grasp of the field , you run into the likely situation that instead of primarily showing your interest , you simply expose your lack of knowledge . No-one would expect an undergraduate to have deeper knowledge about a specific research topic but if you try to argue for some field based on very sketchy knowledge , you may come across as naive . I therefore think it is better to simply state fields that you are interested in without going into specifics . If you manage to read up on a field ( which would take , likely significant , time ) so that you have a perspective , then such a statement would be a definite positive . Coming across as having good general skill ( knowledge and abilities ) is still the most important aspect .
Each situation is different , and it might be hard to generalise , but roughly speaking , you can see a PhD thesis as requiring about 3-4 years working full time . For some people it might be a bit less , for others a bit more , but that 's a good average . In addition , a PhD includes of course " technical " work , but also " academic training " , such as learning how to write a paper/thesis , presenting papers at conferences , supervising students , etc. . Now , two cases are possible : either you already have some technical material from past work ( e.g. , you 've been working 20 years in industry ) , in which case you have already completed some of the 3-4 years , and you mostly need to focus on how to output your work ; or you do n't , in which case , you still need to complete all of the work . I 've known some people in the first case , and they managed to do a PhD while working full-time . They would usually come in half a day per week ( in agreement with their company ) , and work at home in the evening . In the second case , it seems unrealistic to do both a full time job and a full time PhD . In some fields , you might be able to do a PhD over 7 , 8 or even more years ( I 've heard about someone in history who wrote his PhD in 7 years , while working full time as a school teacher in the mean time ) , but it might not be the case everywhere . In addition to Daniel 's answer , and including Sylvain 's comment , I 'd add that some French universities forbid starting a PhD without having some source of income , either through some funding or through a full-time job . Most funding forbid to have a full time job on the side , and if your full-time job is completely unrelated to your PhD topic , then you might have the green light from the administration , but not from the academic institution in charge of the PhD programs . EDIT : I somehow forgot to mention that the indicated amount time in my answer concerns good PhD , and by good , I mean a PhD that will allow you to get a job in academia afterwards , which mean not only getting the degree , but also getting good publications , good collaborations , good reference letters , etc. . If you only care about the title , then you might find some universities happy to make you pay tuition fees to deliver you a diploma after a few years . If you want to go to academia later , then you need to be a junior researcher for a few years , in order to demonstrate that you might be worth hiring as a confirmed researched , and then later as a senior researcher .
Yes , it is possible to cross over between different fields following the PhD-level studies . However , in general , this tends to be more applicable to " interdisciplinary " fields that can fall into multiple disciplines . For instance , the engineering department I studied at hired people with PhD 's in applied mathematics and physics , because their research fields -- in fluid mechanics and interfacial science , respectively -- meshed well with the research interests of the department . To give a counterexample , however , it will be much harder to make the case for a high-energy physics person to move into another discipline , just because it is so strongly identified with physics . Thus , if you have a PhD in a field such as mathematical economics or econometrics , it will be a lot easier to make the lateral shift . However , if you 're in a more " traditional " subfield , that move becomes much more challenging .
end question
start question
Is it rude not to take a course with your adviser ?
You may learn more going with the other professor . By working with your supervisor , you are learning his style and focus in great detail . The other professor will likely take a different approach , that can enrich your views on the topic . I disagree with RoboKaren about the letter . He knows you best from working with him , and taking a course would actually add very little to his knowledge of your performance that can not be seen by looking at your transcript . His letter would be mostly based on what you have done with him , and he hopefully wants to write that you are a brilliant and resourceful researcher . Now , how is your supervisor going to take it ? Impossible to know without talking to him ! When I was considering taking a course partially taught by my former MSc supervisor , he told me that I already knew almost everything he was going to say , and would consider waving his part of the course for a report . But professors are human beings , and come in all varieties . Lastly , I think that your " grades and activities being exposed [ to your labmates ] " is not a good reason to not take a course ; but avoiding conflict of interest is a better one .
From your comments it sounds like a Setup-to-fail syndrome . <URL> The Wiki article is a bit iffy , but it basically means that he somewhat has low expectations of your performance after some incident . Thereby , when something happens he assumes is your fault because he has low expectations nevertheless . Is usually a toxic relationship because is self fulfilling ( you 'll end up making mistakes , because he wants to ) and self reinforcing ( the mistake you just did helps him reinforce the idea that you 'll make more ) . Is a vicious circle that has to be addressed by both you and your boss ( PI , manager , etc ) . But is usually a good idea to have some other people on your side . Ultimately , if he is unwilling to change , it is better for you to leave for a less toxic environment .
Your question indicates that you want to use a link to your LinkedIn profile in your CV because " it 'll be far more up to date than the CV in my dissertation . " Are you suggesting that ( a ) you are going to include a CV that is not up to date , or that ( b ) your LinkedIn profile will be updated over time and that you wo n't be able to go back and edit your dissertation ? If you mean ( a ) , then no , you need to keep your CV up to date and a link to an online profile will not work . Your academic CV should always be kept as up to date as possible and it should absolutely be updated before you submit it in an application or include it in a dissertation . If you are doing your CV correctly , it will include different information than a LinkedIn profile and there is a strong expectation that every academic will have one . If you mean ( b ) and are just worried that an archival copy of your CV will be out of date , sure , add a link to LinkedIn or similar . My CV links prominently to my academic homepage on at a permanent ( i.e. , non-university ) URL , which is kept up to date , and which includes a link to the latest version of my CV at all point . I include a date in the footer of my CV although folks will have a date in your dissertation . Personally , I think this is better than relying on a for-profit company and its URLs for posterity . In terms of the QR code , I 'd skip it . These days , almost everybody who reads the dissertation will read a soft copy . A hyperlink will be much more useful . I suspect that a QR code will just end up make the document look dated at some point in the rather near future .
I think you can do research in your own time , but I think getting your work published is hard where you are not affiliated with a university or research institute . You have the advantage that you will not use precious resources from the institute as you will be doing the research in your own time , but you probably do not have a large amount of priority over the normal PhD 's and postdocs . I think you should write a research plan , i.e. where do you want to go with your research . Writing such a proposal will show a supervisor you are serious and have some research skills ( provided the proposal is any good ) . Once you have a number of publications , molding those into a PhD thesis is quite possible . In the Netherlands for example it is quite normal to bundle your papers , and write an introduction and summary as your PhD thesis . I do think performing research next to a normal job can be challenging , as research tends to take a lot of time . So be prepared to let your PhD take 10 + years ( possibly making it obsolete ) , or sacrifice a lot of spare/family time .
Perhaps the best approach would be to ask leading questions that helps the lecturer head in the right direction . Or , offer an answer to a question that was n't going well . I 've taught classes ( especially ones that use complex libraries , such as parts of a game engine , that I was n't a seasoned expert with ) , and have had students who had more experience with a specific topic chime in to the discussion with details I did n't know . It was great . I 've also had students who were aggressive and conveyed arrogance and had them derail the class by setting up a me vs them dynamic . Not so great . The most important thing is classroom dynamics : let the lecturer retain control ( ie . facilitate the discussion ) but you actively participate . The lecturer should be there to create a learning environment , not bestow knowledge on the class . You can make it clear you know the topic , and let them have you participate as much as they are comfortable . Asking to " take over " would not go over well ; offering your knowledge on bits and pieces and nudging the lecturer in the right direction through questions would be better .
Registering a copyright with the US Copyright Office is a legal formality that establishes a public record of your claim to the work . It is mainly useful if , in the future , you want to sue someone who infringes your copyright . Specifically , Before an infringement suit may be filed in court , registration is necessary for works of U.S. origin . If made before or within five years of publication , registration will establish prima facie evidence in court of the validity of the copyright and of the facts stated in the certificate . If registration is made within three months after publication of the work or prior to an infringement of the work , statutory damages and attorney 's fees will be available to the copyright owner in court actions . Otherwise , only an award of actual damages and profits is available to the copyright owner . These and some other similar benefits are described in this <URL> from the US Copyright Office . Based on your post , you seem to have some misconceptions about how copyright works . Note that : Even if you do not register the copyright , the work is still copyrighted . In the United States and many other countries , a creative work is protected by copyright automatically as soon as it is written down or otherwise placed in a fixed medium . Even if you do register the copyright , you can still make the work available under a permissive license , such as a Creative Commons license . See <URL> for more information . For example , with <URL> you can choose to allow most non-commercial uses of your work as long as it is attributed to you , but still prohibit others from <URL> . You mentioned that you want to " let people use my work and cite me appropriately . " Copyright does not prevent people from doing either of those things . Even if you reserve all rights under copyright , people are still free to use the ideas in your thesis . Copyright only protects your expression of your ideas , i.e. the words or images you used to express your ideas . So copyright prohibits people from copying large parts of your thesis verbatim into their own , or from posting copies of your thesis on another website ( unless you choose to allow those things by assigning a permissive license to the work ) , but not from building on your work ( and citing you ) . See <URL> for more information . You wrote " a thesis should not be copyrighted simply because I think of it as an extended paper . " The vast majority of papers are also copyrighted .
I strongly dispute your assertion that knowledge of the more general subject is not needed for the more specific subjects . To use your own example , general biology will include general cell anatomy and metabolism and probably some basics of evolution . More specialized courses like anatomy and endocrinology will make no sense without these basics . Even when a direct subject material connection is not obvious , in a well-designed set of courses there is often an important dependence in skills . For example , in the mathematics classes that I took , there was not much direct connection in material between Analysis and some the higher-level subjects like Abstract Algebra and Topology that had it as a required prerequisite . However , Analysis was the subject where students were expected to learn how to properly approach and formulate mathematical proofs , and the higher-level subjects assumed these skills . Likewise , many engineering departments have a required " general engineering " subject for freshmen , which drums in the general philosophy of engineering through hands-on applications in various areas : even if an electrical engineer never uses a machine-shop again , the " engineering way of thinking " that they have learned will be critical to their success later on . Returning , then , to your basic question : there 's an awful lot of knowledge in the world , and much of it simply is very specialized . General classes give the foundation required by many different specialized subjects , and so a well-designed curriculum tends to naturally form a " tree " structure that starts general and becomes more specialized as one progresses deeper into a subject .
Could that topic have been a relatively " generic " topic or a topic that is now fashionable ? In which case it is not unlikely that people come up with similar ideas . Fashionable topics are unlikely to be exclusively yours . However , if it is an exotic idea , you may have been very unlucky . In which case , cut your losses and move on .
Actually for both of them some courses are fully autonomous " anytime " courses , while others are restricted to being offered at particular times . So far as I can tell , the time-restricted courses derive two benefits from being time-restricted : It creates a " cohort " of students learning similar things and doing similar assignments at the same time , who can then help one another in the associated forums . Resources needed to support the course ( e.g. , TA monitoring , course material updates ) can track the progress of the students through the course , increasing the return on resources and minimizing disruption to students .
You ask about " stick together " . This is probably not an ideal idea . Generally , in a conference , you want freedom of action . Going with your mother may induce you to " talk to the known " person whenever you are unsure ; i.e. you talk to her whenever you are not sure how to approach people - the notorious " escape route " - but this is exactly what conferences are not for . When I went to my first conference , I made a point to talk to as many people as I could . At the beginning , it is quite a leap of faith . But later you find , it is fun , you get to know people , and you get to know new research directions and ideas . Sometimes it feels difficult , but remember : all you people have one thing in common - the topic of the conference . You are very unlikely to go wrong starting a conversation about that . If you are unsure how to start , start with people which look like they are alone at the conference , and probably a bit lost . They will be grateful to get somebody to talk to ; you may meet interesting colleagues ( do n't think that , because they are alone , they are not good scientists - good scientists may not be good at socialising ) , and notch up a good deed , to boot . It is fine to take your mother to social events and the like , but I recommend that , if she joins the conference , say , because she is interested , that she stays mostly in the background and does not send signals of " supervision " to others or - even more importantly - to you . If you can keep that balance , then , by all means , bring her with you .
I think the answer is yes , but you should aim higher : the line you 're drawing in the sand is uncomfortably close to you and that 's causing more work for you than is necessary . Namely , trying to put the essential content of your papers on your own website for the purpose of freely disseminating your work seems wrongheaded : instead , you should be putting your own papers on your webpage and/or freely available preprint servers like the <URL> . In order to do so fully legally ( which is not necessarily the same as ethically : it is possible to feel that the law is unethical , in which case the ethical thing to do could be to break the law , but be willing to live with the consequences of that ) you need to arrange this as a condition of the publication . This is absolutely feasible with all of the major scientific publishing companies . How common the deal is seems to depend on the individual journal and on the standards of the field . In my field ( mathematics ) , I do not know of a reputable journal which would not allow its authors to post on the arxiv . ( Once I dealt with a journal which initially asked me to remove the copy of the paper from my homepage . After some back and forth , the editor in chief told me that it was absolutely okay for me to do that and he was surprised that the editorial assistant had said otherwise . In retrospect , this was a clear warning that I was dealing with a shady journal . ) I gather that in some scientific fields , there are " popular " journals which do not allow authors to put papers on the arxiv ( or , alas , there may not be an arxiv or clear equivalent ) or -- gasp ! -- on their own homepage . I find this strange , because in my understanding in most scientific fields the majority of journals are owned by Elsevier , Springer , Science Direct ... -- i.e. , by enormous multinational , multibillion dollar publishing magnates which are not renowned for their generosity or enthusiasm for open access . But when you publish a paper in ( e.g. ) mathematics in one of these journals , the copyright notice that you sign allows you to post the paper on the arxiv and your own webpage . I find it hard to believe that the copyright notices for different journals by the same publisher would be so different on this point . So the battle has already been won in these hardest places . If there are trade journals specific to your field which are less generous to authors than the evil empires I 've mentioned above : well , if you care about this sort of thing , do n't publish there . In terms of putting copies of published papers on the arxiv , in light of the comments above let me share my understanding . What you publish should not include any journal-specific formatting : it should not look like a Journal X publication . As a general practice , most authors upload to the arxiv before submission , and then only upload a new copy if some kind of significant , content-related change was made . In particular , if an error was pointed out , then it would be good to correct that . If the journal did copyediting for you -- which is not the same as directing you to do copyediting after acceptance -- then maybe it is best all around not to incorporate those changes in the freely available version : on the one hand , aside from formatting , this is the only place in which the journal itself is contributing to the paper ; on the other hand , going back and manually incorporating the copyediting for an entire paper could take some time and effort . To respond to what was said in the comments : in my opinion , whether your revisions were motivated by a referee report should not have any bearing on whether you want to change the freely available version . If you are making changes in response to a referee report , then including that information in a " comments " section on the paper would be a classy move . But as a frequent author and referee , I feel strongly that the changes you made in response to the referee report are not proprietary to the journal in any way ( or in any other way from the rest of the content of the paper ) . Added : The task of checking out policies of publishers and journals with regard to preprints is not something that an individual researcher needs to address from scratch : there are several online repositories of information about this . <URL> .
If you have written the publication only with the resources and support of the former employer , then it is perfectly acceptable to do what you have written , and list the old address as your address for the " active " affiliations , and include a " present address " affiliation to show your updated physical location . However , if your new employer does provide financial support , then you should list them accordingly . This is especially important if any of the actual research that makes its way into a publication has been performed while working for the new employer using their resources .
Others may differ in opinion , but I personally think that gift cards are a poor choice for expressing personal gratitude . The problem is that gift cards are effectively cash with spending restrictions . Your colleague has invested time and energy in helping you , and giving cash would essentially be saying how much per hour you feel their time is worth . Instead , I would recommend offering something like taking them out for a fancy lunch , which invests your time and gives the two of you a chance to do some informal bonding and building of your professional relationship . Unless , of course you do n't actually want to spend time alone with this colleague ( many possible good reasons for that ) , in which case I would still recommend looking for some way to express gratitude that shows an investment of time and caring beyond just money .
I do n't think a " definitive " answer is possible , but the following is based on personal experience and observation of many other students . If your advisor is okay with it , take as many courses as you can in things that interest you and are in the realm of your discipline . As an applied math grad student , one of the best things I did was to take a graduate course in optimization from the CS department , even though I thought it had nothing to do with my thesis ( in numerical discretization of PDEs ) . It ended up being crucial and allowing me to publish at least one paper that I never would have written if I had n't taken that course . I also took courses in things like astrophysics , quantum mechanics , and turbulence ; I do n't use those things much but I can converse with scientists in those fields , which is often useful . Of course , I did n't take , say , philosophy or Italian or business management courses -- stick to courses related to your field . And make sure that whoever is paying you is okay with it .
It is down to the supervisor , i myself believe any extra research projects adds a LOT to your own skills . Being taken out of your comfort zone and learning new skills improves yourself as a researcher . Besides how much " real " work time can you devote to one PHD before your productivity falls off dramatically . I see a lot of PHD 's concentrate soo much on their project that they do n't spend enough time learning new things that makes them so much more productive in the long run . However , aimlessly going to lectures where you do n't apply those skills is less worthwhile than doing a project . Having said that , if you know a good lecturer whose lecture series illuminates a previously difficult and unknown area , and those gems are out there , then it is not wasted time . Devoting your time to a job unless it does teach you new skills may be pushing it .
First : a few people commented that thinking about your postdoc/Habilitation before even starting your Ph.D. is premature . I disagree . I have seen too many people coast along during their Ph.D. time without ever knowing what they are going to do afterwards , and certainly not preparing for their post-Ph . D. time , whether in academia or in industry . So I would say you demonstrate good long-term thinking . Already thinking about your academic career will help you prepare to work out a research program , network ( more on this below ) etc. . Second : there is no problem whatsoever with changing advisors between the Ph.D. and the postdoc period . To the contrary ! If you stay at the same place for almost ten years , you will need to explain why you never moved , never checked out other places to work , other approaches to research . Many , many ( most ? ) people will switch advisors at least once , or possibly even do postdocs in two different places . Incidentally , this is why I think it is a good thing you are already thinking about your long-term future now , because it is never too early to start meeting people at conferences with your future in mind . You may just meet someone at your first conference who you could collaborate with or spend your postdoc time with . So I would definitely recommend that you consider the older potential advisor . He sounds like he could introduce you to lots of people , and you will likely not need to pack up and move somewhere else during your Ph.D. period , which seems possible with the younger professor and which could somewhat mess up your personal life . Of course , these considerations are all not the highest priority . You should definitely keep other aspects in mind in choosing where to do your Ph.D. , like the kind of project you would be doing for either of the two professors , or whether the two of you " click " on a personal level , or what financing there is , or <URL> . Finally , there is no Habilitation in Germany any more . Nowadays , Germany has moved to a more American style in academic careers . You will do a Ph.D. , then a postdoc , then usually a Juniorprofessur ( roughly , assistant professorship - not tenured and limited to six years ) , then get your Ruf to a tenured position . It 's quite possible to skip the Juniorprofessur , though .
In my experience with graduate admissions in mathematics departments , all complete applications are looked at by departmental faculty ( and mildly incomplete ones may be looked at as well , albeit more briefly ) . So I think it is likely that your letters will be read . However , you say that your GRE scores are " much below average " . I will assume that your description is somewhat factually based and thus that they are below the 35th percentile . In my department -- about the 50th best -- we would like to see higher scores than that , but we can take chances on some applicants for whom that is the only weak point . Admission to the top 10 math departments in the US is much more competitive than this : they can fill their classes with applicants who are extremely successful according to all the standard metrics . If they deviate from that then they will do so only for someone who is truly exceptional . You say that your " thesis features some new results known to experts but not otherwise " . I do n't mean to be harsh , but this sounds quite equivocal : to a research mathematician " new " implies that it is not known to experts . I suppose you would have mentioned if you had published your results , so I will say that it is often difficult to publish such results in a reputable journal . Anyway " truly exceptional " here means that you have results that were not just unknown to everyone but are actually surprising / exciting to the experts , and that they are eager to build on your work and learn more about your ideas . It sounds like what you 've done is write an ordinarily strong master 's thesis , and in my opinion this is not going to offset your poor GRE scores . My advice is to apply to a lot of departments . Every individual committee gets to decide how much to value GRE scores ; I have certainly met individual faculty members who do not place much stock in them , so while it is unlikely that an entire admissions committee would feel that way , it must happen sometimes . If you do n't get into a good enough department , you should consider deferring for a year , retaking the GRE under better conditions and really nailing it . If you really do feel that you can do much better on it , then waiting one year and then going to a top department is probably a better career move in the long run . However , if you wait a year , take the GRE again and do n't do better , it will be disappointing , so you should make an effort to figure out whether you will really do better , which may involve taking practice tests but also some soul-searching and personal honesty . Good luck . And to everyone else who is reading this : yes , for math PhD students , the GRE is a very serious business . Please take it seriously and plan to do well , rather than trying to figure out how to paint over this weakness in your application .
<URL> , <URL> , <URL> and other indexing services have their own ways how the papers get into their database . For Scopus , the journal has to be registered there , and then actively send the data . It 's similar for Web of Knowledge I think . Google gets the data from who-knows-where and I doubt you can control it efficiently . In general , it takes couple weeks to several months . As dgraziotin pointed out in comments , Google Scholar indexes citations from <URL> quite quickly , in couple days . However , by many people and many institutions , arXiv papers are not considered at all regarding citations , unless they are published properly elsewhere and properly Journal-ref ' ed ; even then , many people do n't trust that the arXiv version is correct , because nobody makes any check of this ( I mean , you can put whatever Journal-ref to whatever your arXiv paper , so it 's not trusted ) .
There are ZERO ethics involved . First , you suspect , but do not know , who the original reviewers were . You may be right , you may be wrong . Next , suggestions for potential reviewers are just that -- suggestions . It is the responsibility of the editor to pick appropriate reviewers , and your suggestions are just one potential source of information in the process of doing so . I 'd say even if you recommend people who you respect to referee your papers , they 'll surprise you regularly with critical reviews ( if they 're doing their job ) . The biggest ethical quandry you can get into in the process of recommending referees is probably some sort of pre-arrangement with those you suggest . This is to be avoided as less than stellar behavior .
For figures from your own papers , it would depend on the copyright transfer agreement you ( or the corresponding author ) signed upon publication . However , all copyright agreements I know explicitly authorize reuse of content for academic theses . As an example : the American Chemical Society , which does not leave the authors too many rights , <URL> : Authors may reuse all or part of the Submitted , Accepted or Published Work in a thesis or dissertation that the Author writes and is required to submit to satisfy the criteria of degree-granting institutions . Such reuse is permitted subject to the ACS ' " Ethical Guidelines to Publication of Chemical Research " For figures from others ' papers , a thesis is not very different from any other publication ( see the related <URL> ) . Unless your institution has a specific agreement with publishers ( as MIT seems to have ) , you have to either : ask for permission ; these days , it 's all done online and once you have located the appropriate form for a publisher , you can make your requests and get all the answers the next day rely on fair use in the US , or similar law in other countries ; around me , most people actually do that , either knowingly or just out of ignorance :)
end question
start question
What exactly does termination from a PhD program entail ?
This is normal practice these days at universities . In the old days , doctoral students could drift away from their program mid-stream and people would n't really care . They might return after 20 years to submit their dissertation , but otherwise there was no attempt to track these zombie students down . Unfortunately , many places are now using average time-to-degree ( TTD ) as metrics to a graduate program 's quality ( purportedly a lower TTD is better ) . Zombie students are problematic as you can have someone who is 15 years into a program without graduating , dragging the average up . Note that there is a difference between a nominal TTD and actual TTDs -- for example , in my old university the nominal TTD was 5 years but very few people actually graduated in that time , the average was closer to 6.5 years . In my experience , provosts are asking departments to track the zombies down and determine whether they should be terminated or not . Being terminated is n't a bad thing , it means that you will be left with your last degree ( e.g. , M.Phil ) and you should n't really call yourself ABD as you wo n't be permitted to submit . I 've been through a few of these cullings and as faculty I think they are a good thing as zombie students on the books really help no one . If you have any hope of submitting , I would ask that you be given some time ( 1 year would be reasonable ) to submit . Otherwise , I would take your MA/M . Phil and be happy with it . I do n't think there are any negatives for a career in industry . Again , you technically should n't call yourself ABD ( rather you " withdrew from program after meeting all qualifications for the doctorate but the dissertation " ) but I really do n't think anyone is going to check . Think of it as a general discharge , under honorable conditions .
The PhD thesis should be on a much higher level than the Honours/Masters thesis , offering a contribution to human knowledge that is of a sufficient level of " significance " to warrant publication in a respected journal . Significance is highly subjective , and you also do not necessarily have to publish to be awarded the PhD ( sometimes the peer-review delay means that they come out afterwards , or there may be some intellectual property issues that make it beneficial to refrain from publication ) . It is awarded based on your supervisors consent and a review of academics in your field . So the " significance " would probably be judged by them in terms of how much original work they see as a reasonable expectation at that stage of your development ( first 3 years of serious/committed research ) . Unfortunately it also means that some people who probably do not deserve PhD 's are awarded them anyway for fulfilling grunt work for their easy-going supervisors . It is possible that some Honours/Masters thesis might even be more significant/higher quality than a PhD thesis . Unfortunately , this does not mean that the submission of the thesis will award the degree that they deserve . The university may have a policy to upgrade the student 's enrolment if the supervisor senses that such progress is being made . However , it is impossible to upgrade to a PhD without completing Honours and I believe nearly every single university has a policy of a minimum period of enrolment before submission is allowed . A subsequent question that you may have is how to gain a PhD without enrolling in one , which is another level of achievement completely . As for the difference between Honours/Bachelor and Masters it would depend on your university , but both have no requirement for publication quality research and are usually small tasks/ideas that are not worth the supervisors time to think about alone , or involve a lot of labor . In fact , in my school , many Honours thesis are of a higher level than the Masters , because the smart Honours students will either graduate into the work force or go straight into a PhD . The Masters students are usually those who can not find a job and are not suited to research . However , I believe some other universities may require a mandatory Masters degree to start the PhD . You may get a better idea by looking at some titles/abstracts of completed theses . The PhD level will be something like a new method/observation/application whereas the Masters/Honours will be an application specific set of measurements/simulations or even simply a literature review to gauge the needs of future work . The word limits are also typically different ( although note that quality is NOT proportional to the number of words ) , with PhD at 100K , Masters at 50K and Honours at 30K at my university .
You do n't need any publications to get into a good Ph.D. program . Publications are often slow , and it 's an unexpected bonus for an undergraduate to have publications , not a necessity . What is a necessity is to have strong reference letters attesting to your potential for research , and one of the best ways to get those is to get involved in research . Being involved in research , in turn , will also tend to lead to publications . Thus , you see the correlation . Research and research-related activities that help a person into graduate school also tend to help cause that person to end up with publications . In short : publications are n't the key , they are simply dependent on the same root cause .
" All other things being equal , " you 'd rather have more references from graduate than undergraduate professors . Your situation is such that " all other things are n't equal . " Apparently , you did n't get to know any of your masters professors well , and only took one course from each . Whereas you had undergraduate professors that you took two to three courses from , and they know you better , and may be in a better position to assess your research potential . Taking the inference a step further , you may have done your most interesting/significant research as an undergraduate , while your master 's work " topped up " your academic knowledge . If that 's the case , you probably ought to " go with what you 've got , " and get more referrals from the ( undergraduate ) professors that you did more work for , or at least got to know better . I would rather have " glowing " recommendations from undergraduate professors than " lukewarm " recommendations from graduate professors . If all else fails , try to take a second course with one of your graduate professors so the s/he can get to know you better , and give you a recommendation .
The link that you provide explains it fairly clearly for that academic community . They have chosen to organize training in reviewing and conference organization by setting up a group that does the same work as the real program committee . The shadow group 's work , however , is done only for training purposes and does not affect the actual decisions on papers . This is similar to a <URL> or <URL> in the legal arena : a chance to do " the real thing " without doing real damage if one screws up . It both gives practice and helps the main organizers identify people who are ready to be brought onto the real program committee . This is not a widespread mechanism in the scientific , however , so other communities may not mean the same thing if they use the same words .
I 'll assume you are talking about a department that admits students via a single admissions committee ( rather than offers from individual professors or groups , in which case all bets are off regarding the timing ) . As a general rule , getting an offer earlier is a sign that the committee is more interested , but that does n't mean the actual offer will be better in any concrete sense . Often there will be a first wave of offers , which may be followed by additional offers depending on how many people seem likely to accept . Sometimes the further offers are explicitly described as a waiting list , but sometimes the only distinguishing factor is that they come later in time .
To answer some of your questions , a lot of this will vary from university to university , and vary by location . One major aspect is to determine your research focus as early as possible and plan long and medium term objectives , and how these objectives are to be met at the beginning , in consultation with your advisors ( that is the advice I was given ) . Duration There is usually an upper limit of how long a student can take to complete the dissertation , and it is generally expected that the research , experiments , dissertation write up is performed within the time frame dictated by the university . Note , the length of time taken to complete the PhD is not necessarily a measure of how credible it is . ( I completed my PhD in Physics in 2.5 years ) . Papers are often published in consultation between you and your advisor ( s ) . But , during my PhD I was advised that it is a good idea to get some publications completed while you are studying ( I completed 4 while completing the research ) . Courses This varies between universities and places , for example , I was not required to take any courses whatsoever - just pure research . That is something you will need to check with any university you apply to . I did my PhD while working full time in an unrelated field , so I arranged regular ( fortnightly ) Skype meetings with my advisors , where short term goals were set and the medium and long term goals checked up on . As you are doing sciences by the looks of it , it will involve a considerable amount of experimentation ( potentially ) - some of it can be tedious , make sure you plan and get into that as soon as possible , while ensuring you get the most accurate possible data in a safe and efficient manner . Completion You complete your research when you have met your objectives and have , through research and experimentation , ' answered ' your research focus . What happens then varies between universities , some you will be expected to defend your thesis , and some , as in my case , your thesis is peer-reviewed . Once all that is done and your advisors and the university are satisfied , you will be told that you have passed ( in my case , I received a letter stating as such ) . But , the research never really ends , once you have that passion for that topic - you may find that the research continues , but now to be published as papers ( this also has been my experience ) . Find a topic that ignites the fire in you and you 'll find that the PhD is just the start of the journey . Finally and critically , make sure what you are doing is something that you find fascinating , something that you wo n't mind putting in many hours of research and work into . Choose something that is either your passion or something related to it . Get ready to challenge yourself on a regular basis . I hope this helps .
Contribution to knowledge means creating new knowledge based on the previous available knowledge by doing extensive and innovative research . Look up this related illustrative post by <URL> on what is a PhD . And for the said MS student , he should get his degree without any problem , because he showed a new &amp; original application of the CS algorithm in a new field . Hence , new knowledge generated .
I agree with blackace that you should probably be OK , but let me sketch what some of the drawbacks are : Ideally , an application to math grad school will have recommendations from mathematicians . The further you get away from that , the less meaningful the letters are . ( For example , at least once per year I see a letter from an English professor , which is utterly unhelpful . ) The basic issue is that you need recommenders who really understand what it takes to succeed in math grad school and as a mathematician . Fortunately , physics is close enough that physicists can do a pretty good job of judging this , so you should be OK . In my experience , the admissions committee will worry about two things : One is that physicists may not appreciate certain math-specific issues . For example , the expected coursework and background . A physicist may not fully understand the extent to which someone 's background is nonstandard or deficient for the math program they are applying to . A second reason is the belief that most people 's standards go down a little when making recommendations for other fields . If someone is applying to the top schools in your field , you know very well what the standards and competition are like , and you have something invested in the system and your own reputation as a recommender . In practice , recommenders from other fields seem to be a little more cavalier about making strong recommendations based on a feeling that the applicant is smart , rather than a comparison with the rest of the applicant pool . This means recommendations with be taken with a grain of salt . So if you have equally good prospects for letters writers from math and physics , you should choose the mathematicians for math applications . On the other hand , a physicist who knows you is still a good choice , much better than a mathematician who does n't know you . ( But a mathematician who does n't know you is a better choice than an English professor who does . )
I too have struggled at times to find this balance . I 'm coming from math and computer science ( rather than social science ) , but I think the field matters less than the type of work . If what you 're trying to do is cognitively intense , then it 's really important to be well-rested and to maintain focus . In grad school , I often would bang my head for hours on problems without much progress . Now if I work for 45 minutes or an hour with little progress , I 'll go for a short walk , get a light snack , do jumping jacks , or play a quick web game ; all of these are ways to reset my focus and attention . Probably the single most useful skill I 've learned is to be more aware of my current state ( energy level , focus , sleepiness , hunger , emotional state ) and try to choose work appropriate for ( doable in ) that state . For more thoughts on this idea , I recommend the advice given by Terry Tao here : <URL>
You have asked for an alternative interview date , gave them a list of options where you 're available , and made efforts to reschedule conflicting appointments . I do n't think there 's anything more that could be expected of you , so it should not be perceived as impolite if you just inform University C that unfortunately you ca n't come to any of the two offered interview dates due to conflicting appointments . If you want , you can explicitly mention interviews at other universities - that will make it clear that you 're genuinely interested in doing a PhD , and it will be understandable to most academics that everybody has a ranking of opportunities in such situations . You could offer to retract your application , or state that you expect that they wo n't consider your application any further , but I do n't think any of these would be required .
ctb = Contributor . It 's not so much about academic publishing , but ( academic/open source ) software . One has authors and contributors . Contributors added a bit of code , but presumably did not contribute to the overall design efforts .
Web of science does n't explain it on the page you quote , but you can find it in another page with detailed explanation : " The plus sign on this last abbreviation indicates that cites to the original language journal are unified with cites to the translation title " From here : <URL>
Any matter that one finds novel or improvement over a conventionally used method supported by practical results , simulation , or theoretical construction deserves to be published as a research article ( paper ) . In your cases , the following applies . A 's article could be a research paper provided her/his method is novel or unconventional . B 's article could also be a research paper as such papers are available for life sciences as well as historical biographies . C 's article ca n't be classified as a research paper although it can be recalled as a survey paper . D 's article do not have sufficient qualities for a research or survey paper . It may be published as a news or magazine article .
In short : yes , and a whole lot more . A PhD in the arts usually most closely resembles other PhDs in the humanities , like English or History , but often have a more experiential/practical component as well . Depending on the program and field of study , it might be somewhat of a mash-up of psychology , anthropology , physiology , literature , history , political science ... whatever relates to one 's area of research and study ! I 'll give a concrete , real-world example : in the Psychology department of my present university there are faculty and students ( undergraduates and those preparing for masters/PhD studies ) conducting cross-departmental research with the Theatre &amp; Dance department on the " Psychology of Dance " . In one experimental study they looked at inter-rater reliability of those who are not particularly trained or experienced in interpretive dance , and then showed them specially created dance performance videos . They were looking to see if interpretive dance really is a genuine form of communication : can the artists/performers communicate specific emotions consistently to the audience such as anger , fear , affection , companionship , etc ? Or is it all just people assigning arbitrary meanings , like people giving serious meaning to a randomly generated drawing ? Their results so far indicate that especially for some emotions , there is a very strong inter-rater reliability : even those who have never studied/seen interpretive dance before can identify certain emotions , activities , representations , etc - and as usual they work on writing up and publishing such results , giving talks , etc. . As another example , at <URL> program and they have a lot of detail on their website about the kind of things student 's are doing . These include things like studying different styles of dance , dance in other cultures , documenting and studying modern performance art , and so forth . As with most PhDs , the purpose of them is research and instruction , but what one does with it varies . Some will be instructors , professors , researchers , owners of studios , contributors in community organizations , lecturers , writers , performance artists ... some will go into ' industry ' as choreographers , directors , producers , and so on . It 's a far cry from Underwater Basket Weaving ! One thing I 'll note from personal observation : many , many people working in the arts choose not to go by the title " Doctor " or even " Professor " . This seemed odd to me , but it 's a culture thing - they just do n't do it . So , many people who have a PhD in the arts , especially in music and dance , do n't advertise their education in any way - so you 've probably known more people with a PhD in the arts than you realize !
An author should always be careful when using mathematical notation that is " outside the theme of papers in this field , " especially if the papers typically have little math notation . I have personally found that running into a cryptic ( at first glance ) equation makes me put the brakes on and engage some deeper thought to decipher what 's trying to be said . Oftentimes , the notation is required , or at least useful , but when I end up thinking , " Could n't they have just said ' such-and-such ' in plain English ' " , I get a bit cranky . Sometimes , though , you do need the space savings to stay within page limits , so if you really will shave off 90 % of the space , and you need that space to fit in something else that is key to the paper , AND in your best judgement that the audience wo n't be derailed by the notation , you might be OK . Otherwise , because you have stated that you can describe it clearly in words , you should consider perhaps rewriting that description to be more concise and precise , rather than potentially obfuscating the details of your graph production .
Having a rubric will make your own work grading fairly simpler , in particular if what you are grading are reports/essays . It breaks down your mental process of coming up with a grade . For example , if you do n't have a rubrik , you may have to think about whether as a whole the report should be worth 70 or 75 points . There are many dimensions involved , and you will find that you are juggling too many balls when trying to assess how 3 or 4 reports compare to each other . It 's easier if you only have to assess them on one dimension , e.g. , spelling/grammar , use of examples , clarity of exposition , correctness of formulas used , adequacy of citations . You would then assign a grade for each report for each of the categories in your rubrik , and the task of computing an overall grade is only one of adding up the points . A rubrik will also make your life easier when students ( as they always do ) come to your office hours and ask why they got this grade and not that . If you grade based on a holistic view , it 's often difficult to articulate how you arrived at a particular grade . It 's easier if you can break the grading down for the student into individual categories . You make your argument why you gave the student a 70 instead of a 75 a lot easier if you can explain why they only got a 10 out of 20 in grammar , etc. .
One word . Yes ! It is absolutely normal . I am a doctoral student in , what is arguably a top 5 CS department/top 5 HCI program in the USA . Although , I had a handful of publications before I started my doctoral program , my first " real " paper ( in a top flight venue ) with my adviser was published more than 2.5 years after I joined the program . I had published a couple of workshop papers/posters in those years with other graduate students but the acceptance rates for them , even in highly ranked conferences , are pretty high so that does n't really account for much . These had nothing to do with my dissertation but were just some side projects that we did . Most of my colleagues and friends/acquaintances in similar programs in similar universities were in similar situations in that time . It takes time to read literature , come up with a compelling and important research question , design a study/prototype/system / algorithm , write the paper and most importantly , get it published . Do not be disheartened . The quality of papers matter , not the quantity when it comes to being evaluated by search committees .
You certainly can and it is often useful in the ways that Michael M. notes . However , there can be a downside in that it effectively reduces the number of useful letters of recommendation by one . In other words , the people in program who know you already know you . If they are on the admissions committee , then they will ( if they support your candidacy ) speak up for you . When advocating , it 's handy to have ammunition in the form of external evaluations . Scenario : I am a Professor at University X and I really want AS2045 ( who is at X ) to continue to the PhD program . I 'm also on the admissions committee . When promoting her case to my peers on the committee , I would find it more useful to have 3 outside letters that say she 's brilliant ( " Prof. A , Prof. B. and Prof. C @ OtherU think she is brilliant , and so do I ! " ) rather than 3 letters , one of which is my own -- making it effectively only 2 that I can use to argue my point . tl ; dr : If the person is on the admissions committee , then ask them for their advice -- would they prefer an external letter from another person or do they think their own letter would suffice . Note : If they are n't on admissions , then certainly include the internal letter .
This is normal practice these days at universities . In the old days , doctoral students could drift away from their program mid-stream and people would n't really care . They might return after 20 years to submit their dissertation , but otherwise there was no attempt to track these zombie students down . Unfortunately , many places are now using average time-to-degree ( TTD ) as metrics to a graduate program 's quality ( purportedly a lower TTD is better ) . Zombie students are problematic as you can have someone who is 15 years into a program without graduating , dragging the average up . Note that there is a difference between a nominal TTD and actual TTDs -- for example , in my old university the nominal TTD was 5 years but very few people actually graduated in that time , the average was closer to 6.5 years . In my experience , provosts are asking departments to track the zombies down and determine whether they should be terminated or not . Being terminated is n't a bad thing , it means that you will be left with your last degree ( e.g. , M.Phil ) and you should n't really call yourself ABD as you wo n't be permitted to submit . I 've been through a few of these cullings and as faculty I think they are a good thing as zombie students on the books really help no one . If you have any hope of submitting , I would ask that you be given some time ( 1 year would be reasonable ) to submit . Otherwise , I would take your MA/M . Phil and be happy with it . I do n't think there are any negatives for a career in industry . Again , you technically should n't call yourself ABD ( rather you " withdrew from program after meeting all qualifications for the doctorate but the dissertation " ) but I really do n't think anyone is going to check . Think of it as a general discharge , under honorable conditions .
end question
start question
When does a paid research assistant become a co-author ?
The decision of whether someone should be a coauthor is completely independent of monetary compensation : authorship depends on what sort of intellectual contribution each person has made , and it would be unethical to treat them differently based on their job ( paid assistant , student , colleague , amateur , etc. ) . People in different roles may be treated differently based on their contributions . For example , an assistant who does no creative or insightful work , but instead just carries out explicit instructions in a straightforward way , should generally not be a coauthor . ( Still , the assistant should be thanked by name in the acknowledgments . ) When the assistant 's work starts to involve exercising nontrivial skill and judgment , coauthorship may be appropriate . If the assistant is doing a serious part of the creative intellectual work , then coauthorship is mandatory , even if the supervisor 's role is deeper .
Even if not " published " in some sense , prior work can/should/must be cited . E.g. , cited literally as " ... Ph.D. thesis 20xx , University of X , ( unpublished ) . " Unless they literally help you significantly change what they 'd already done , they should not be authors on your work .
Being invited to present a paper or give a keynote is an honour . It shows that the community recognizes your work . Of course , it is also a way to further advertise your work , or to reflect on what you have done . Generally , the audience is larger for invited speakers . One accepts the invitation if one has time and prestige of the conference matches one 's reputation . If you have a small reputation , an invited talk at a workshop is an honour . If you are super-famous , you 'll tend to only accept invitations to prestigious events . The cost may depend on how much money the conference has in its budget , which will often depend on the sponsors . Sometimes the conference will waive the registration fee , often they may provide accommodation also , and sometimes they may even cover airfare . Bigger conferences will be able to cover more of the costs . Small workshops may not be able to cover any of the costs .
Here are another three suggestions to add to Ran G. 's <URL> . The first approach is to solve a simpler version of your problem . If your problem involves some dimension that is infinite , what does the problem look like if that dimension is finite ( or ignored all together ) . This approach worked for my PhD research . The system involving the finite dimension was easier to deal with and the technique developed to get my solution generalised to the infinite case . The second approach is to work through a less general version of the problem . This could involve solving some examples of the more general problem or make more concrete some of the general dimensions . The third approach is to solve a more general version of the problem . These approaches are not guaranteed to work and the results they produce may not be publishable , but they might give you enough insight to move forward .
Dave 's remark on switching to the student 's shoes and contemplating what you can get out of a co-supervisor is , in my opinion , a very useful one and should be of primary concern to students . Let me put some personal perspective on this . I , as a senior post-doc , act as a co-supervisor of two PhD students ( with some international twist to it within the EU context ) and have colleagues who do the same , hence my observations below . Of course my view is one of a junior researcher , so take it with a grain of salt . My benefits from being a co-supervisor are the following , in the order of subjective importance : new horizons : the students act as drivers and catalysts of research topics I do not necessarily care for in a very personal and deep manner . It means that I can broaden my horizons and get somebody pushing me towards learning something new . That is a good thing for me as a curious person , as well as for my career . publication record : given the first point , obviously , if the students work well and our collaboration works well too , since I get as much influence on their work as they allow me , or ask me to , we get together some useful stuff done and get papers published . I would stress the word " together " , where I rather take the passenger 's seat and try to help wherever necessary , but the crucial decisions are student 's . The finished and delivered projects , as well as papers are obviously a good thing for both of us , too . project leadership experience : often the collaboration is in a context of a project , where , as the more senior guy , I would take the role of a project manager , or a team leader . Of course this gives me plus points to the CV as well , not speaking about learning how to do this kind of work . Another good thing for my career . soft skills : by doing the above and by that closely collaborating with people with whom my bond is tighter than just a joint interest ( as it would be with a member of my community from a different institution ) , in a way , we are supposed to work out our ways along each other . At least for me , that is a good training too and good for my life and career , whatever twist should it take in the future . should the collaborating partner become a friend of mine during the process , I would add it as a benefit too . But obviously this one is not everybody 's piece of cake . All in all , the points above boil down to a single one : being a co-supervisor means for me to become and act as a senior buddy to the student and prepares me for running my own lab/group , should it become reality one day .
Others may differ in opinion , but I personally think that gift cards are a poor choice for expressing personal gratitude . The problem is that gift cards are effectively cash with spending restrictions . Your colleague has invested time and energy in helping you , and giving cash would essentially be saying how much per hour you feel their time is worth . Instead , I would recommend offering something like taking them out for a fancy lunch , which invests your time and gives the two of you a chance to do some informal bonding and building of your professional relationship . Unless , of course you do n't actually want to spend time alone with this colleague ( many possible good reasons for that ) , in which case I would still recommend looking for some way to express gratitude that shows an investment of time and caring beyond just money .
There are a lot of reasons why a professor may publish a paper without co-authors : ( 1 ) he did the research by himself and wanted it to get all the credit for that research instead of sharing it with some co-authors that he could have invited on his paper , ( 2 ) he did not have students , ( 3 ) he does not have good social skills or his project appear uninteresting to others and thus he could not find collaborators ... In general , it is beneficial to have collaborators . They have different ideas which can improve the quality of the paper , and they can help carrying the reearch and writting and thus reduce the amount of work by the main author . Thus the main author can then do more research . Some researchers will see it as a negative point if an author has too many papers by himself and do not collaborate .
Taking your statements at face value ( and thus imagining something like the others having designed X and evaluated X in a study , while you implemented X based upon their designs ) , this sounds like a typical situation where you should be mentioned for having conducted the implementation/practical construction . This should certainly happen in a presentation of the work , and possibly ( if the paper has an Acknowledgments section and if space allows for it ) also in the written text . Admittedly , this is at the verge participating in the design / idea of the research at hand ( and maybe you even did contribute some detail decisions without realizing ) , so including you as an author depends a bit on the concrete circumstances - and also on the main authors ' personal preference ( but then , so might accusations of gift authorship in this case ) . As for how to bring this up with the authors , you could ask in a somewhat unspecific way such as " I 'm interested in gradually increasing my level of participation in research papers , is there a chance for increasing my contributions and acting as a co-author in the future ? " That way , chances are the main authors will immediately get the idea of adding you one way or another in the current paper , while at the same time , you are not burning any bridges by appearing too demanding .
Learn how to say NO . It is very easy to say yes to every PC invitation , every paper collaboration , every committee , every this and every that . But this spreads your time too thin and means that you perform far less than optimally at everything you do . Ultimately , work encroaches too much on family time , and life becomes less enjoyable . Also , learn how to teach properly . Take a teaching course or two . It will make your job easier and increase the amount you enjoy teaching . See also : <URL> . Many of my comments there are applicable .
You 're not really a student at your new institution until you have actually arrived and registered there . At this point , it would appropriate to say something like : I will be a graduate student at Institute X with anticipated start date D You can certainly update your CV to convey that information immediately . As for other sites , typically they allow you to list a number of positions with starting and ending dates . If their system lets you list a start date in the future ( I have n't tried that on the particular sites you mention ) , then that would be a clear enough communication of your current and anticipated status . Otherwise , you can write the same sort of " anticipated start date " line in your free-text personal description .
In the US , supervising graduate students is generally considered part of the normal workload of a faculty member and there 's no extra pay for doing this . The number of students supervised is typically a factor in tenure , promotion , and pay raise evaluations . Not supervising enough graduate students can hurt your evaluations and might possibly result in your not getting tenure or promotion or a pay raise .
I have answered several related questions on the Data Science SE site some time ago . I hope that my answers are relevant to your situation and will be helpful . Wishing you best of luck ! <URL> <URL> <URL>
The answer is strongly conditional on discipline and , to a lesser extent , country of origin . Conventions vary widely , as does the degree to which they are institutionalized . For instance , in some fields ( e.g. , Philosophy ) , co-authorship is not common and there is no convention about attribution , so absent an explicit note people are are likely to think the more senior author is the primary one . In Sociology , co-authorship is common and the convention is that the first author is the lead author unless there is a note indicating equal authorship . In Economics , co-authorship has become increasingly common over the past few decades but the convention is to list authors alphabetically , regardless of degree of contribution . In some fields the primary author may be determined by looking to see if there 's a note specifying to whom correspondence should be directed , regardless of order of authorship on the paper . Meanwhile in many lab-based science disciplines , where it 's sole authorship that 's rare , author order is governed by different norms . In some fields , the first author is the one who is primarily responsible for the paper ( what that means can vary , too ) , the last author is the lab head or primary grant-holder , and the order of authors in between is sometimes influenced by other norms . But other conventions exist , too . Knowing what they are and how to interpret them is part of one 's socialization into a discipline . To make things more complicated , some fields -- or some journals , or some labs , or some individual authors -- may have their own rules or conventions designed to clarify things by listing credit more explicitly . Even worse , there may be a kind of hermeneutics of author-order where people parcel out credit to different contributors regardless of order of authorship , as when someone says " Sure , X is the first author and Y helped him write it up but it 's obvious the paper was Z 's idea " . In your case , if your lab or unit is using a convention that 's not standard in your field the most straightforward solution is to make a note of this in your articles . This is n't an ideal solution because papers will still be cited or referenced without people paying attention to your clarifying note , but there is n't much you can do about that .
It depends on the subfield of computer science . For example , if the paper is in theoretical computer science , then author order is alphabetical , and the equal work put in by the authors is not negated by the author ordering . If in a discipline where author order is meaningful , then it 's standard practice to ( say ) order the authors alphabetically and add a footnote saying that all authors contributed equally to the work .
You will not be paid in money . You might be paid in reputation . This depends on how the conference handles its review process and you can ask your supervisor about it . If the conference organizers learn about your reviewing ( i.e. if " being appointed as a sub-reviewer " is more than your supervisor forwarding you the manuscript and asking you to write the review that he or she will then send back to the conference organizers ) , that may lead to a slight rise in your reputation among those organizers . Results could be that you will at first be asked to review more papers , but on the long run , this might lead to you being considered for e.g. co-organizing a workshop ( if one of the organizers remembers you usually provided valid input in a particular field etc. ) . Some conferences publish their list of reviewers . This has basically the same effect as above , however with a much wider scope , as the fact that you contributed will be publicly visible . And of course , you will gain some experience in reviewing and more awareness of issues in authoring scientific texts . Also , you might get some insight into the work of researchers that you may not otherwise have found . Sometimes , this includes becoming aware of research that you can use for your own publications ( either as related work or as an inspiration in the first place ) , as seems to have happened e.g. <URL> .
In your situation , perhaps the most important thing that you have going for you is your work experience , since it is in the same field , data science , that you plan to study for . Your Ms grades are decidedly better than your BS grades , but may or may not be strong enough to get you into the second Master 's program ( even if your BS grades were n't an issue ) . What is beginning to set you apart from other candidates is your work experience . If you do n't get in now , I 'd apply again in TWO years , when you would be closing in on three years ' work experience ( the optimal amount ) . That 's the time when you are most likely to be admitted .
No . In the US , permanent university-level teaching positions in computer science , even at small four-year colleges , require a Ph.D. . As I explained in <URL> , an online master 's degree will not help you get into a PhD program . For some non-tenure-track positions , a master 's degree with a thesis may be enough , but a terminal/professional/course-based master 's degree wo n't be ; whether that terminal master 's program is online or on-campus is essentially irrelevant . In short , if you want a permanent teaching position , you need formal research experience .
The recipe is this : to <URL> . Click on . Type your co-author name in the search box provided ( top right ) . You will get a list of authors that match the search . Click on the " Add co-author " button on the right of the correct person . If your author is not found , you will get a failed search . If you click on the wrong person , you can remove them with the edit button at the top of your co-authors list .
Organize that workshop Be invited by the organizers to be on the commitee Ask the organizers while the committee is still being formed ( and be known and respected by them )
Absolutely , a person who 's not naturally inclined to be a speaker can become a good lecturer and scientist . One of my best professors , actually , was a person with such inclinations . Finding that speaking was not something that he was good at , he turned it into an object of study and began collecting heuristics about what made a good and effective talk . By studiously applying these heuristics to his own teaching and professional communication , he could at least ensure that his talks did not fail on any identifiable dimension . Talks need to do a lot of different things at once : holding attention , identifying key salients , speaking at different levels to different parts of the audience , providing " breadcrumbs " , etc. . Because of this , it often turns out that it 's much less important to do any aspect brilliantly than to make sure that no aspect has been neglected . This professor might not have been a brilliant and exciting comedian , like some who are natural lecturers , but he often gave better lecturers than the naturals . The more natural lecturers were often simply less consistent : following their enjoyment and intuition produced brilliance in some aspects and weaknesses in others , while his stolid application of heuristics ensured an across-the-board solidity of presentation . In short : ultimately , it 's not a matter of talent but of choices for how to invest in acquiring skills .
end question
